Note that it's not exactly a strong argument, both in terms of logical structure and its empirical claims. 

Losing a limb really hurts. That's a crude but not unreasonable criterion for parts of our body we consider to be our body (skin inwards, basically) and parts we don't (hair, nails, dead skin). We get sense impressions that build up our knowledge of the world from organs with sensory receptors; we don't get any of that from hair. While the 'importance' answer above explains why we care, that's strictly a different issue - if I had dreadlocks that had taken me years to grow and style I might plausibly be as upset about their loss as I would about losing a less important extremity, but I don't think I'd feel like I'd lost part of my body. 

As has been pointed out already, if you are using logic to talk about apples and oranges you have already provided some model (say, a is an apple and o is an orange - formally speaking you've set up a function from constants in your logical language to objects or types or fruit or whatever). So I'm reasonably comfortable that the following proof is no less rigorous than what you've got already: let P (a one-place predicate) be assigned the meaning 'needs to be peeled to be eaten'*. Then Po is true and Pa is false, so then clearly ¬(x = y) holds. *obviously if you don't peel your oranges feel free to substitute some other predicate that fits 

Limited as Google is as a tool for lexical research, the fact that Googling the phrase fails to turn up anything beyond this question suggests it's unique to the author. I don't think they've used it as though it's common, though; it's simply a reference to a relatively well-known visual paradigm shift. 

To me, it seems the professor's primary point was that her choice to break the law would put her family at "risk" or otherwise inconvenience them. Frankly, an Objectivist would not care about this, and would certainly not let it dictate their morality. Furthermore, an Objectivist would reject such a law as immoral. In "What is Capitalism?", Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal, Ayn Rand writes (emphasis added): 

Objectivism advocates a sharply limited form of government, where the state has power only to take actions that are necessary to secure the rights and freedoms of the individual. This, it is held, is necessary in order to prevent excess governmental power from being turned against individual freedom and being used to restrict it. Although an Objectivist would concede that the government needs to provide civil law (contracts, torts, etc.) as a positive service, this should be restricted by clear, objective standards. The laws must be based in "essential principles", by which is meant "grounded in the principles of individual rights." Thus, since government's only function is to protect rights, and the law that you describe does not protect rights—and moreover serves to restrict an individual's free exercise of rights—that law would be on face immoral and you could not possess a moral obligation to follow it. I think you will find Rand's essay "Man's Rights" (reprinted in The Virtue of Selfishness, as well as other volumes of her work) most illuminating of these views. Here is a relevant excerpt; you can read the full text online here: 

And taking a slightly different angle, it's also a notable concept in existentialist literature. Heidegger himself picks up the topic of boredom a second time in his writings on "nothingness" and the meaning[lessness] of existence. To him, boredom reveals a lot about Dasein. In Being and Time, his most famous work, he writes: 

If an almighty god is some entity which can cause any proposition to be the case, then if such a god existed it would be possible for it to express pi as the ratio of two integers. I would take that to be a pretty strong argument against such an entity existing, but I imagine there have been views to the contrary historically. If an almighty god is some entity which can cause any possible proposition to be the case, then since it is not possible to express pi as the ratio of two integers such an entity would not be able to do so. So yes, the answer relies on what you think an almighty god is. But not in an especially novel or interesting way, in my opinion. 

Therefore there must exist some intelligent entity which directs the universe (or everything in it) towards goals, and that entity is God. 

Clarification: I used the term 'counterexamples' since that's the popular term in maths; I mean what I've hinted at in the examples above: a case which establishes a conditions or bounds for a theory. 

Empirically we observe that things in the world seem to act towards goals or purposes despite not being intelligent entities. 

In mathematics there's a type of book, bordering on the textbook but slightly different, that compiles examples to demonstrate the necessity of various conditions on theorems and the correct directions of implication. For example, to show that a connected space need not be path-connected one can construct the topologist's sine curve. My question: are there any similar compilations in the philosophical literature? For instance, in epistemology the obvious set would be the Gettier cases (to show that JTB is an insufficient analysis), along with Armstrong's (?) barn facades and fake towns (to show that context seems to be important) and so on. In ethics we have Nozick's experience machine (the limits of hedonism). Further, potentially-not-site-appropriate question: do people think such a compilation would be in any way valuble in philosophy? 

Introductory textbooks are far too boring and textbook-y to ever be a good introduction to philosophy. Chances are, there's a reason that these people didn't just take a formal philosophy class, and I'd almost be willing to bet that these textbooks are part of the reason. Not that they're bad, per se, but certainly dry. But honestly, my experience tells me that the best way to get involved in any field of study is to just throw yourself into it and start trying to learn as much as you can about it. Too much hand-wringing isn't going to do any good, and fretting about how much there [potentially] is that you won't understand is a waste of time. Yes, there will be plenty of things you won't understand. But that's true for all of us when we started. Read the texts you can get your hands on anyway, and absorb the parts that you do understand. You can always come back later once you've further developed your knowledge to pick up the parts you missed. And to that end, there's no book that I can recommend more highly than Will Durant's The Story of Philosophy. It's sort of like a combination anthology and introductory textbook, but it reads like neither of those things, which is a big win in my book. As far as the "friendly" or "accessible" guideline, I've long recommended this book to high school freshmen. More importantly, Durant attempts to show the interconnection of these philosophical ideas, in addition to presenting each as a separate case. The emphasis is placed on how the earlier philosopher's ideas informed the later philosophers, which is both undeniably true and undeniably useful. It also does quite a lot to make the book an interesting read. And understanding what came before is absolutely crucial to jumping into the field of philosophy. As much interesting stuff as goes on in contemporary philosophy, all of it is based or premised on the work of people who came before. If you don't have at least some basic understanding of the field, it will be next to impossible to keep your head above water reading the works of contemporary philosophers, even though they might refrain from using such words as "thou" or "thine". Like it or not, philosophy is a decidedly academic discipline, where it's become accepted practice (and some would go so far as to argue necessary) to dress up your thoughts in dense, oddly-worded prose in order for it to be accepted by the "community". That and academics are writing for a far different audience than the rest of the world. In particular, they're writing for each other. They can (and do!) make a lot of assumptions about what the reader is supposed to know, throwing around concepts as if you were as familiar with them as they themselves are. This is quite unlikely for most of us, of course, even fellow academics. 

The problem is that 'intelligence' is pretty much a recognise-it-when-you-see-it kind of attribute; as you say, there are plenty of indicators of intelligence that are highly culture-specific, and even fairly culture-neutral tests are very succeptible to scores increasing with practice. So in one sense IQ tests (which are very varied, and range from tests of verbal reasoning through 'pick the successor' non-verbal tests through interviews with psychologists) only measure how good one is at performing that specific test. But a lot of effort is expended in trying to ensure that 'being good at this test' correlates as highly as possible with what we'd recognise as 'intelligence' generally. It's a specific instance of the general problem of measuring a fuzzily-defined feature. So yes, you're right to be skeptical; IQ tests generally produce widely divergent scores (at two different tests in the same sitting I scored 124 and 161) and give a false perception of authority (to the extent that they are used in employment and academic selection processes); it's probably true that you're better off directly testing the skills you require than assuming IQ tests give you what you want. But you should also be aware that, while you think you might have a good notion of what 'intelligence' is, it's an extremely hard concept to pin down in any way more reliable than what IQ tests give. 

The question is definitely not philosophy, but whatever. I also don't think you're going to get a particularly interesting answer; we spend early childhood being shown a huge array of animals, and we get pretty good at telling when a new object is similar to an animal we've seen before. Most vertebrates have roughly similar structures (eyes, a head, limbs) and textures (fur, feathers, skin) which aren't similar to most non-animals. And there are very clear cases of our failure to recognise life (think of fungi or mould, which we have to be convinced is technically life). As for your specific case, it's a squid grafted onto a mouse walking almost identically to how humans walk; I don't think you should be surprised we see it and assume it's a living thing. 

Ironically, just as Nietzsche had observed elsewhere (and as some readings of the work might claim, was attempting to demonstrate through the "Maxims and Arrows" section), writers are remembered primarily for and by such simple aphorisms. The well-known American rapper, Kanye West, even includes a paraphrase in his hit song Stronger  (again, requoted without the phrase that prefaces it): 

I've definitely never heard this phrase before, nor do I remember having read it anywhere, but empiricism isn't really my area so it's possible that I'm just missing something. However, I did some research, and I turned up the following quotation (emphasis not original): 

But I guarantee that anyone reading that argument is immediately going to object to the first premise. Some would probably even quibble over the second. In a strictly logical sense, my argument is sound: if the premises hold, then the conclusion follows. But that doesn't mean it will manage to convince very many people. The reality is that because negatively-phrased statements often make such sweeping claims, it's very easy to conceive of potential counter-examples or poke holes in the premises of those proofs. 

Specifically, which branch of philosophy are we talking about here? Since you've tagged the question logic, is it reasonable to assume that you're talking strictly about formal logic? Because in that case, the proofs look an awful lot like mathematical proofs, and use many of the same basic patterns mentioned in your question. For a more thorough introduction to each of the types and the symbolic notation, see this page. Also see this complete sample proof for a fairly simplistic problem. But if you're talking about moral philosophy or any of the more "touchy-feely" branches of philosophy, then no. The best you get is an analytically-reasoned argument. And sometimes you don't even get that. 

A good starting point is to figure out the possible arrangements of people and properties, and then draw a table of what they would answer to various questions in each arrangement.after some trial and error you'll develop an intuition for the kind of questions that give you useful results. Note that as posed there are some questions some men can't answer (specifically, neither the truth-teller nor the liar knows what the random-answerer will say in response to any question). I think Boolos describes this as a head-exploding outcome. 

Q1: From your experience how can mathematicians deal (or how they usually chose to behave) with this huge mathematical universe and be satisfied from a philosophical point of view? Generally, the same way most people deal with a huge universe; they don't think about the philosophical underpinnings. Almost everyone handles reality perfectly comfortably without confronting questions of whether possible worlds, universals, temporal parts and so on exist, or whether their conception of the world corresponds in a meaningful way with reality. Mathematicians have the structures they work with, and on the whole don't necessarily interrogate their assumptions about in what sense those structures exist and so on. Q2: How can a mathematician interested in the foundation of mathematics be satisfied by an always partial knowledge of the mathematic? I think someone interested in the foundation of mathematics actually has a good reason not to be troubled by their incomplete knowledge of mathematics: they are working towards a theory of the foundations, not what is built above them. Just in the same way a particle physicist concerns themselves with the fundamental constituents of matter and doesn't worry about their inability to predict the flow of chaotic systems, a foundational mathematician has no reason specifically to worry about their inability to solve some complex problem elsewhere in mathematics. 

But beyond that, it appears that your confusion (and the confusion of whomever wrote the article you are quoting) stems mainly from the notion that atheism (or the rejection of organized religion) implies relativism, absent or beyond its humanist affiliations. That is also quite incorrect (albeit quite a common fallacy that religious scholars succumb to). The flaw lies in thinking that the only possible source for an objective morality is from [a] God. While that's certainly one possible source, and even a good source, it's far from the only possible source. Humanists, as I hinted above, would argue that human rationality, intuition, and logic are the sources for morality, and since all humans share these faculties, such a moral framework would be objectively shared across all humanity. There is an entire world of philosophers who don't necessarily believe in the existence of a supreme being, yet believe in objective morality. The one who makes this position most persuasively is probably Shelly Kagan, a contemporary moral philosopher. And other philosophers have even argued (this is Plato's famous Euthyphro dilemma) that objective morality cannot be based on God, even if both are granted to exist. 

They would reject the idea (or at least the relevance of such an idea) that there are facts that are, in principle, unknowable. Talk of inaccessible Kantian "things-in-themselves", or the Nietzschean "True World" that is forever hidden behind the veil of phenomena is considered to be useless, merely idle chat. By contrast, utilitarianism is a moral philosophy. It holds that the utility of a particular action in providing the greatest amount of happiness or pleasure to sentient beings is both necessary and sufficient to establish its moral worth. It aims to measure the morality of an action, rather than merely assess its normative truth value. The conclusion of a utilitarian calculus is that the action is good or bad, right or wrong, moral or immoral. Pragmatists do not render the same type of judgment; it is not meant to guide moral evaluation or moral decision-making. The line probably begins to blur as you get into neo-pragmatism, those contemporary thinkers whose work has been widely held to be "pragmatist", like Jürgen Habermas, Hilary Putnam (although, "pragmatically"-speaking, it's awfully hard to nail down what his position actually is), etc. Some of them have drawn moral conclusions from pragmatist rationale. But in general, the distinction is still one of a moral-ethical system, as compared to a normative truth-based system.