As was explained to me in a college-level physics class, recoil is essentially an elastic collision between the accelerated mass of the projectile and the accelerated (in the opposite direction; recoil) mass of the weapon. This means mass of the projectile * acceleration of the projectile = mass of the weapon (everything BUT the projectile) * acceleration of the weapon (recoil). The Springfield rifle used by US Marines during WW II had the ability to launch grenades. You chambered a blank round and added an adapter to the end of the barrel, mounted the grenade in the adapter, pulled the pin (the adapter keeping the fuse / handle closed) then pointedly DID NOT put the weapon against your shoulder; triggering the round would break your collarbone. The increased mass of the projectile, even with the reduced acceleration from the blank round, still increased the recoil to more than a human body could tolerate. The same rifle could fire .30 caliber rounds all day, causing some fatigue and, with ENOUGH rounds, pain to the shoulder area. But a soldier couldn't tolerate ONE grenade launched from the shoulder. As has been thoroughly discussed, makInge the projectile lighter will reduce one side of the equation, thereby reducing the other. Another approach is to pointedly weigh down the weapon. There's a reason why a common rule of thumb is to make the weapon at least 100 x the mass of the projectile. That ensures that the recoil (acceleration of the weapon) is no more than 1 / 100th the acceleration of the projectile. Putting a massive shock absorber on it reduces the JERK on the weapon, ensuring that you have a longer-duration, lesser-intensity recoil instead of a hard, short-duration one, reducing fatigue and potential injury to the operator. That can make it easier to brace against the recoil, both for man-portable weapons and otherwise (artillery, as an example). But you still have the fact that mass (projectile) * acceleration (projectile) = mass (weapon) * acceleration (weapon). There is no ignoring that simple fact of physics. Bazookas and such (recoilless weapons) have the propellant working against the air behind the weapon, not against an enclosed barrel. Why did they create recoilless weapons? An closed-barrel weapon would have a greater muzzle velocity, yes. But the recoil would injure, if not kill, the operator. For this reason, I have a hard time with any sci-fi which has man-portable railguns. The weapon would have to be so heavy (not just for the power supply / railgun mechanism) or the projectile would have to be so light that it would be impractical. In Starship Troopers (the book, not the hideous movie with the same title), the Mobile Infantry wore heavy, powered "suits" which, among other things, carried more weaponry and munitions than a person could carry AND could absorb levels of recoil / impact no human could survive. Such a suit, or some kind of heavy, powered exoskeleton, might be able to take the recoil of a railgun. But you're pointedly having machinery take the recoil, not the operator. Failing that, the weapon needs to sit on the ground (or deck), preferably anchored, so the operator doesn't have to take the recoil. 

Set up their burner so that it is between themselves and their equipment so that the flame sterilises their exhaled air - otherwise the plates are likely to be contaminated by the microbiologist's breath-borne bacteria. Set the burner to produce a hot blue flame. Yellow flames deposit soot on the inoculation loop, which contaminates the plates, and is not considered hot enough to kill some heat-resistant bacteria. Sterilise the inoculation loop by putting it just outside the blue part of the burner flame. It is a common beginner's mistake to put the loop inside the blue cone of a Bunsen flame, which is quite cold. The wire loop must be heated cherry red ("They're not dead until it's red!") or better still, orange, to kill any contaminating bacteria. Cool the loop by quenching it in an uninoculated portion of the plate. Failure to do this results in the heat killing the bacteria that it is intended to move. Dip the inoculation loop in the liquid culture and rub it across about a third of an agar plate. Sterilise and quench the loop. Failing to do this results in an undifferentiated bacterial lawn. Streak several times from the initial inoculation to an uninoculated part of the plate. Sterilise and quench the loop again. Streak from the secondary inoculation toward an uninoculated area of the plate, being careful not to contact the primary inoculation, or the culture will not be properly diluted. Repeat 6-8 a couple more times, ending in a squiggle in the centre of the plate. 

In a worldbuilding context, you have to think about what you’re trying to symbolize with your flag, and about the design tradition in which it resides. Does it come from an older aesthetic tradition, such as heraldry? If so, what does heraldry look like in your world? In our world, tricolours have a specific meaning. A tricolour means this country is a Republic. There are other traditions in flag design, such as the pan-African colours seen in many (but not all) African national flags. Similarly, you might be better off not designing one flag, but designing a family of flags, in conversation with each other. Work out their histories, and which came first. Flags change, as a result of governmental changes. Many national symbols started out as family or personal symbols of a ruler. When there’s a revolution or coup, the symbols can change (or can merge). 

Actually, when a moon is "tidally locked", this means that it always shows the same face toward its primary, in this case, the larger planet it is orbiting, not the sun. This means that its rotational period would be equal to its orbital period. It would have a day/night cycle either slightly longer or slightly shorter than the period of its orbit around its parent planet, depending on whether its orbit was retrograde or prograde. However, any moon massive enough to have an atmosphere is probably large enough that it is not tidally locked, and its day may well be shorter than its orbital period. For all intents and purposes, such a moon is pretty much like any other habitable planet, with the added complication that its larger/more massive primary planet would be quite likely to cause frequent eclipses. Since the plane of orbit may not be in the plane of the primary's orbit, these eclipses may not occur every orbit, but may occur for several, then there could be a gap of several orbits before more eclipses occur. 

Would you count a Flettner roter using the Magnus effect as a “sail”? Veritasium has a video on the Magnus effect and its usage in boats and planes. These boats with spinning cylinders rather than (or as well as) traditional sails can get quite large. A Gizmodo article refers to them as mega-ships, and describes Flettner rotors being retrofitted to a 110,000 dwt (Suezmax) tanker. The efficiency gains are tricky to calculate, and these Flettner rotors are intended for supplemental use in addition to an existing engine, but with more predictable wind conditions the calculations involved would be simpler and this type of vessel could become common. 

A change in writing style is most easily explained by a change in language. If, perhaps due to some virus, the prevalence of deafness in the population massively increased, culture might change to one like Matha's Vineyard in the 18th to mid 20th centuries, where everyone, hearing and Deaf, used a sign language. Sign languages are not commonly written, but when they are, they are written vertically, in Sutton SignWriting. As the use of sign languages became more prevalent, they would probably be written more. Spoken languages would not disappear, of course, but as people became used to writing vertically, they might start writing their spoken languages that way too. 

There are a lot of things that biological organs can do better than man-made equivalents. This is primarily a matter of energy efficiency. However, man made organs such as muscles would conceivably be considerably faster and stronger. This too extends to the brain, which for all its massive parallelism, is actually very slow and bulky for what it does. It can be anticipated that it would be possible to eventually copy a human mind-state to a man-made processor unit, probably one specifically designed to house a human consciousness. It would also be logical that these brain-boxes could and would be much faster than a human brain. Basically the neurons of the human brain perform in a known manner. If we get to the point where we can physically map the neurons, their junctions and their state of polarisation, we can in theory duplicate the organic network to a man-made device, implicitly duplicating the organic mind-state. From there, by increasing the clock speed, we can increase the speed of thought to many times that of the speed of the organic brain. In a world such as this, the boundary between the virtual and real worlds would be blurred. In the virtual world, the only things of any scarcity are processing power, memory and causality, while the physical world has many more limits, though the virtual world is inextricably dependent on the real. In the real world, we would need bodies. Having human origins, these would likely be human-like bodies, but mechanical bodies would be more durable, more easily repairable, and more capable than organic ones. The probability is that these bodies would be cyborgs, with a bioengineered organic skin designed to interface with the almost-entirely mechanical bodies beneath them, as well at to be more robust than a genuine organic-human skin. We will probably want to look human to allow physical intimacy, but it is not strictly necessary that the organs involved actually be genetically of human origin With an increase in available processing power, it is likely that the last secrets of the human brain will be cracked, and it will become a feasible matter to create new child mind-states based on parental mind states, or in isolation. Even reproduction can be mechanised and can also be separated from physical intimacy. 

So how can you build your cephalopod language? Celaphapods have tentacles that can move. They don't have hands that can form complex handshapes. That, then, is where the colour comes in. Colour may have a direct morphological meaning (red means anger, for example), but no doubt would also have more abstract meanings (perhaps red as an intensifier, or brighter hues as an intensifier), and direct meanings (red means red). Tentacles can move and gesture; colour can change during the course of a sign, or be held over the whole thing. Different tentacles can sign different concepts at the same time, and bring them together to show a relationship (as in my the bus went past me example from earlier). Colours on the body of the animal (either the whole body or in patches of colour, maybe even moving patches of colour), meanwhile, function in a manner roughly equivalent to movement of the face, head, and shoulders in sign languages, functioning mainly as discourse markers, intensifiers, and indicators of tone and emotion, though there is no reason why other grammatical features, such as tense, aspect, or evidentiality, could not also be indicated there.