Objection! But isn't uncompounded space an independent phenomena? Answer... No, it is dependent upon name and designation. It is empty of inherent existence just like all phenomena. 

I think you should put your mind at ease and enjoy the uncertainty :) Also, it is probably best to stick with your Christian faith and don’t worry too much about Buddhism or what Buddhists think. Whether the theory of evolution is true or not is completely independent of whether we believe it, right? So either you are descended from an ape or you are not; there is no other third option. Crucially, it makes not one lick of difference whether you believe it! Consider how the fact or our own birth is similar. Either we were born on such and such a date at such and such a place or we were not. Perhaps we were not “born” at all and have always existed and the universe is one big cosmic masquerade? Maybe you are the only actual person alive and all the rest of us are just dreams? Either this is true or it is not and similarly it does not make one lick of difference in its factual status whether you believe it :) 

Emphasis mine. If preparing the trainee for Tantric practice is the reason for adding it to the Lamrim, then is it true that guru devotion is not of such importance for those studying sutra only? In other words, can it be said that for those practicing sutrayana only that guru devotion is not the root of the path? 

Emphasis mine. Merely becoming aware of the eight worldly concerns and familiarizing with the idea that these are hindrances to be overcome is itself some progress. Which is to say that one mustn't completely eliminate attachment towards these concerns before one can start to make any progress! Rather, you shouldn't fool yourself into believing that progress can be made while ignoring these hindrances or worse thinking these hindrances aren't in fact hindrances. Making progress in eliminating attachment to these worldly concerns is concomitant with making progress towards liberation. It is a hard answer, but hopefully worth considering. 

Generally speaking, Buddha Nature teachings are part of the Third Turning of the Wheel of Dharma and thus require the wisdom realizing emptiness described in the Second Turning of the Wheel of Dharma to interpret correctly. In this regard, I don't think they can be equated in any way with Vedanta. See here for more on how to regard the provisional and definitive meanings of the Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma. 

The views presented above belong to the ancient Indian materialist Ajita Kesakambalin of the Charvaka or Lokayata school. Ajita Kesakambalin is introduced in the Samaññaphala Sutta: The Fruits of the Contemplative Life. The Buddha criticized the materialist world view for many reasons including its amoral (at best) or immoral (at worst) consequences. In contradistinction he taught the Dharma to dissuade those who would harm themselves and others believing that with the breakup of the body at death one could escape the consequences of negative actions in this very life. The Buddha explicitly criticized and put his own teachings in contradistinction to this by teaching the truth of rebirth and that one cannot escape the negative fruit of ones actions with the breakup of the body at death. As Thanissaro Bhikkhu skillfully cites in The Truth of Rebirth: 

That selfless things can not function That we are thoroughly material and can be reduced (physical reductionism at work) to pure matter. 

If nothing can be considered 'myself' or 'mine', if nothing is in my complete control (take volition for example), how can people be held responsible for their thoughts, words and deeds, if they are by definition not in charge? This question hints at two things to my mind: the notion of free will or agency and the notion of karma as a judge of right and wrong. Further, I think there might be confusion in the question with regards to the doctrine of anatta and the implication that persons lack agency. Buddhism does not teach that persons lack volition... exactly the opposite! Buddhism teaches that actions are only accomplished with intent and persons manifestly do have agency. If persons did not have agency and we were all zombies forced to follow a completely deterministic path, then obviously there would be nothing to do. What could we do? Nothing. What choice would we have? None. This is manifestly not what the Buddha taught. Karma is also not some sort of judge of our right and wrong actions punishing us for our evil deeds and rewarding us for our righteous ones. The law of karma is simply an observation that certain actions bare certain fruits and we classify accordingly. The doctrine of anatta and sunyata is deep and difficult to comprehend. It is famously said the Buddha despaired and hesitated before teaching it fearing that no one would be able to understand it. I think this saying is a precaution to guide us away from thinking the doctrine of anatta or emptiness somehow implies that persons lack agency or that our actions do not matter. Nothing could be further from the truth. 

The Second Turning of the Wheel of Dharma is said to have been given at Vulture Peak Mountain in Rajagriha, India. The Sutras which record this turning are broadly given the title of Perfection of Wisdom Sutras or prajnaparamita the most famous of which are likely the Heart Sutra and the Diamond Cutter Sutra. The Third Turning of the Wheel of Dharma is said to have been given in numerous locations and generally comprise those Sutras making up what is called the Tathāgatagarbha doctrine. How do Tibetan Buddhists interpret these Three Turnings? Is there disagreement within Tibetan Buddhists schools about which teachings are definitive and which are provisional? Among the various subschools of Tibetan Buddhism there is broad agreement about these Three Turnings. In other words, the subschools generally agree that these are valid and authentic teachings of the Buddha. However, there are some disagreements. I'm not aware of any disagreements about the First Turning which are widely considered provisional in meaning, but there is some contention about the status of the Second and Third and which Sutras are said to be definitive in meaning and which are provisional. The Gelug school as founded by Je Tsongkhapa and which forms the root lineage of His Holiness the Dalai Lama believe the Second Turning to be definitive in meaning while the Third is said to be provisional or at least that it needs to be interpreted with the wisdom realizing emptiness. According to the Gelug viewpoint the Third Turning was motivated to dispel the fear that some generated upon hearing the teachings of the Second Turning. That is, some listeners had an incorrect understanding of the Second Turning and developed a nihilistic view and so out of compassion the Buddha gave the Third Turning with a sheen of essentialism to dispel this nihilism which leads to the avici hell. Tsongkhapa gave his viewpoint in his Essence of True Eloquence. Here is what His Holiness the Dalai Lama has to say about this: 

I wonder at the word forced. What is forcing you not to see your god-mother whom you love? You say you are forced out of deference to your mother, but since you put the word in quotes I think you realize that nothing is forcing you. This is your choice. I wonder about the motivation for such deference to your mother... Is it motivated out of a sense of obligation or duty? Is it motivated out of compassion for your mother? What of the compassion for your god-mother? One practice that I've found beneficial is the practice of equanimity. That is looking at ones friends vs enemies or close acquaintances vs strangers and looking at where the distinctions we make are coming? What motivates these distinctions? When we choose to act based off of distinctions of "friend vs enemy" or "close acquaintance vs stranger" often times our actions are non-virtuously motivated by personal considerations. All beings at root desire to be happy and to avoid suffering. We are all the same in this way. In this way, all are worthy of our compassion. In the end, we can't control how other people will react to our actions. The only thing we can hope to control is our own actions and to try and ensure that our actions are virtuously motivated. The desire to make people happy with us is very different from the desire to make people happy, right? I guess my best advice is to really look and see whether your acquiescence to your mother's desire for you to stop talking to your god-mother is actually making her happy? Is it actually making you happy? Is it actually making your god-mother happy? Or is it only serving to make your mother temporarily happy with you? Is that well-motivated? 

This answer is in the context of the Tibetan Gelug School and is taught in modern Buddhist Monasteries of this tradition. Uncompounded space (as opposed to the usual idea of space) is a permanent phenomenon. This is the standard example of an existing thing that is permanent. Like emptiness, uncompounded space is taught to be a non-affirming negation. So what is uncompounded space? First, we have to understand what compounded space is... Compounded space is the vacuum between material things. Take two material objects (made of matter) that are spacelike separated. This means not only do they not occupy the same space, but that they have a vacuity between them. Imagine they are placed in the void of deep space with a meter of distance between them. In this meter of distance between them, there is no air, there are no molecules, no matter. This is what is meant by compounded space. Uncompounded space is the complete absence of obstructive contact. Those two things we imagined above are spacelike separated and sitting in a void. They have no contact with anything. They have a complete absence of obstructive contact. They are sitting, if you like, in uncompounded space. This is thought of as a permanent phenomenon and not dependent on causes and conditions. How can it be said to be independent of causes and conditions? Unlike compounded space, it does not rely upon matter. Whether there is something sitting in uncompounded space or not, the mere absence of obstructive contact remains. It is unproduced. 

Your question strikes me as wondering if it is possible to make progress towards liberation while maintaining the same level of attachment to the Eight Worldly Concerns. I'm afraid the answer is no. What are the eight worldly concerns?