What you are asking is about the existence of binary star. There are many binary stars in the universe. They are in fact more common than single stars. Here are interesting explanations for the latest. 

Any point in space feels the gravity of the whole observable universe around it. If you are in the middle of nothing, then the gravitational field you measure can be incredibly low. But from small differences of mass and energy density throughout the (constantly moving) universe, it fluctuates, and drag you around in a direction or another, as long as you are mass or energy or spacetime. If you are close to a massive object, on the other hand, then you are strongly bound to it by gravity, you will measure a strong field. Now if you have an equivalently massive object on the opposite of your position, gravity field is high, but the force you feel from is low in this place, because it annihilates (even with different mass bodies, this is what happens at Lagrangian point L1). 

This diagram was created with gnuplot., Public Domain, Link So it looks to me that in some time, when its wavelength falls at around 12cm), some of its energy should be transferred to water molecules the way it is in a microwave oven. 

It was the first thing I thought too, but I would say it won't count in the statistics. The earlier paper by Batygin & Brown was talking about bodies orbiting further out. 2015 RR245 orbits between 33.7 and 129 AU. The "cluster" of bodies considered in the paper have aphelion distances from 150 AU upwards. So I think it would be a mistake to try and fit this new body into the existing figures. 

It's not possible I'm afraid. Optical wavelengths (light) are typically of a wavelength under a micron, and an optical surface needs to be accurate to this level or better to be useful. Radio wavelengths are typically 10-20cm or longer, and an adequate reflector can be made with surfaces accurate to a few centimetres (at a guess as I don't know the exact tolerance). Also - I once experimented using a frequently mentioned substitute, a convex shaving mirror(!) as a reflecting telescope. Even that was so poor it was unusable at the lowest possible magnification. (But it is possible to make your own reflector out of reasonably stable glass - it just won't be as big as a satellite dish! Search around for "Amateur telescope making".) 

I do not fully understand how space and time do what they do. But I'm sure that "universe expanding faster than speed of light" doesn't mean that locally, something (i.e. any bit of information) is moving faster than light. It means to me that particles that already are too far away to exchange any information are becoming increasingly separated by "space" at a rate that can be arbitrarily big. 

A day back then was shorter than today's earth day. The earth was rotating quicker in the past, but its rotating period around the sun didn't change much because of Kepler's law. I cannot say how it was 5 billion years ago (anyway, did the earth had something you could call a surface to track the day from then?), but you could find data derived from fossils analysis for the last billion years, e.g. here from Nasa's SpaceMath, on how long a day was back then - I realize now the figures below assume the orbiting period of the earth around the sun (~8766 hours) stayed constant over this period of time. This assumption is wrong as explained here - however stating it "has been close to its current value for the last 2-3 billion years", so below figures are an approximation 

I don't think the title of your question and your question are really in sync here and I'm not sure I will correctly answer your question. However, I will give it a try. To give you a hint of the conclusion. My answer would be, "NO". There are several clues / reasons why I come to this answer. 

So, to get back to your second part of the question, "massless gravity", this is not a viable alternative. Gravity exists either by massive objects exchanging gravitons and therefore exercizing gravity upon each other, or a massive object "denting" the fabric of space / time and therefore creating a gravity field. In either case gravity cannot be seen as a farce that exists without the existence of mass. Secondly, to the first part of your question. Whether we can observe objects directly or indirectly, this doesn't make it more or less realistic. Dark matter is generally accepted to be there. We just haven't found a way to measure it. We can only see that the visible matter in the universe can't explain the gravitational pull on the visible matter and therefore we assume there is some other matter out there we haven't been able to "see". Hence, dark matter. However, dark matter does interact through gravity and our current successes in measuring gravitational waves might also result in a better understanding of gravity and how to measure the effect of dark matter on the gravitational pull in the universe. So, to answer your question: "No, we call dark matter because we can only observe it through its influence on other matter due to gravity. There is no such thing as gravity without mass." 

Another effect I'll try to illustrate with Wikipedia images: the sun trajectory's elevation in the sky would change year after year (cycle: between 8 and 9 earthlings years), due to moon's apsidal precession and its tilted orbit plan: By Rfassbind - Own work., Public Domain, Link By Geologician, Homunculus 2 - from English Wikipedia, CC BY 3.0, Link 

An observer on the far side of the moon would have hard time to explain it stands on a single planet, because of the movement of the most noticeable thing in the sky: the sun! Indeed, because of the eccentricity of the moon's orbit around earth, the day length, i.e. the sun's "speed in the sky", depends on where you stand in your lunar orbit. And from observations it can do, e.g. other planets that are nearly perfectly round in the solar system (and for well known reasons), she should be forced to rule out the "I'm standing on an elliptical single celestial body" hypothesis. I cannot calculate the variation of day length on the far side of the moon in a reasonable amount of time, sorry about that. 

It's not easy to understand, because there is no clear analogy of how stars form at our level on earth. Interstellar gas clouds eventually collapse to form stars are very large, very massive, very cold, and very tenuous. The star is at the beginning a little portion of the cloud that is more dense than the rest - it results of local and large scale instabilities (some call it an element of chaos). Little by little, the density at the center of the cloud increase - at the same time, it has to overcome opposite forces arising from more probable friction. If the gas is cool enough compared to the density, at some point you start having more and more matter, which results in more and more gravitational attraction for surrounding gas. 

This isn't relevant. Regardless of any "clock" running locally on the photon, it is still travelling for a long time (in our frame of reference) to reach its target (our telescope). In fact if this paradox were so, it would be impossible to see anything. If say a distant probe transmits a radio signal to us, travelling for an hour or more at the speed of light, our radio receiver would have to be switched on ready to receive long before the message reached it. Again, not true. So, there simply isn't a paradox. 

Star S2 reaches maximum velocities of 5,000 km/s according to this ESO page. The orbital period is given as a little over 15 years and this paper gives a peri-center (closest approach to the black hole) of 17 light hours. There's another star in the area called S0-102 which has a shorter period, but its orbit is less eccentric - so its closest approach to the black hole is further out at 36 light hours. Its maximum velocity will probably be less than S2 but I haven't been able to find a figure. 

(I'm just answering this part of the question, as James has already answered the main part about GR vs QM.) LIGO have produced an image which shows their best estimate of where these two black holes were: 

There is however an exception I've been thinking of. Since glass has an amorphous structure, it can also be regarded as a liquid... And if some advanced form of life or intelligence managed to send some into the interstellar medium, then yes there is. It's also possible that some stellar explosion send away magma of some form with an amorphous structure similar to that of glass (e.g. obsidian) 

Distances between planets and stars do not expand as long as they are bound together by gravity sufficiently. This is true even at the scale of an entire Galaxy. 

From what I can understand, Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation (CMBR) is microwave now, but was initially visible light emitted long time ago. 

From which I would roughly interpolate: 600 days earth self-rotation per year full rotation around the sun 2 billion years ago 

It is a question of where, but also to better understand, you must know when it happened. Because earls structure was different from today's. From wiki on Universe's chronology, By NASA/WMAP Science Team - Original version: NASA; modified by Ryan Kaldari, Public Domain, Link you will learn that first stars are thought to appear when the Universe is about 3% of its current age, i.e. 400 million years old. This is the time it took for first atoms to cool down sufficiently and gather together in the clouds in question. To see where first star formation happened, we have the possibility to look back in time. 

First of all it has to be stated that it is difficult to have a scientific discussion about multiple universes. The problem with multiple universes is that it can be logically deducted from assumptions and hypotheses, but not tested nor empirically verified. This makes discussions around this topic, like string theory, highly "religious". There are different multiverse theories coming from cosmology, physics and philosophy. One of the theories comes from the cosmological theory of cosmic inflation. Cosmic inflation states that there are always fluctuations on the microscopic level and this results in energy waves that can form into matter and anti-matter pairs. The cosmic inflation now states that at the beginning of our universe there was a cosmological constant or a big vacuum that is by nature unstable and caused the microscopic fluctuations to happen on a cosmic size and thus resulted in a rapid expansion of the early universe. This cosmic inflation is a variation of the (hot) big bang theory, that explains a number of observations in the universe that are not explained by the (hot) big bang theory. What it doesn't explain is that if I have an energy fluctuation at microscopic level, it can happen that this energy wave splits into two matter pairs or an anti-matter/matter pair. Later these pairs annihilate each other and what has happened at microscopic level evens out on macroscopic level. However, when particles appear at microscopic level, what needs to happen to let these particles exist for a longer time to have stars evolve from this matter. Now back to the multiple universes. The going theory now is that if such a thing can happen to our universe, such a thing can happen in the endless vastness that contains our universe and multiple universes can start and exists next to each other. These multiple universes might also explain that when I have a cosmic fluctuation, I have two universes that come into existence. One with the matter and one with the nati-matter. Bear in mind!!!! These are all philosophical hypotheses and none of it can be verified, falsified or empirically tested. If I now have made it logically possible to have multiple universes coming from different cosmic fluctuations, I can now have different universes. For instance, I can have for each matter universe a corresponding anti-matter universe to get the energy balance evened out. Now if I have several universes with each different compositions, I can also have universes where, at least, the laws of nature apply differently. In a universe without dark matter, laws of physics apply differently. Whether the "laws of nature" are totally different in other universes, is difficult to scientifically proof. Especially with theories that are build on our laws of nature. When you think we're already on thin ice here, philosophers can make it even more unreal. If I have cosmic fluctuations that can happen under different circumstances, which result in universes with different compositions that then have a different application of the laws of nature, I can equally well argue that there will be universes where certain laws of nature don't exists, while there are some particles that don't exist in that universe. So, to answer your question briefly, there are theories that say there are other universes that have different laws of nature. However, multiverse theories are highly speculative and are difficult to proof. So, whether these theories are right, we'll probably will never know. 

What else could it be? Very simply, it could all be a coincidence... What they have done is noted that objects in the outer solar system have their orbits grouped in interesting ways. Someone suggested this might indicate there was a heavy planet (or core of a giant protoplanet) that influenced their orbits in this way; the recent announcement is the result of examining this idea in detail. It is likely to be caused by gravitational influence of such a body. Of course the TV and newspapers have picked this up and said a planet HAS been discovered. But there might be nothing at all; the loose clustering could all be a coincidence - though that seems, statistically, unlikely at the moment. Here is the paper for anyone who wants to check. (Beware, lots of mathematical terminology.) 

The telescope has a round aperture (of say 60mm or so) and this behaves as a slit in some ways. It causes diffraction patterns (an Airy disc and concentric circles) when viewing a point source at high magnifications, near the resolution limit of the telescope. Also of slightly out of focus you'll get lots of rings. (By the way this the cause of many "weird" unidentified objects that people photograph or film in the sky; especially a DV camera with odd shaped aperture blades. Surprisingly few people want to hear the explanation though.) So when viewing stars at high-ish power, on very still nights, they actually look like a small white circle surrounded by a single, very thin, circular ring. 

Gravity is not necessarily a real thing. When you read the literature concerning general relativity about gravity you will learn that acceleration can be experienced as gravity and in the fabric of space/time gravity is "merely" a curvature in this fabric that. This means that gravity is highly debatable as something that could be seen as an independent force / object in the universe. When gravity exists as a force, whether it is an exchange of gravitons between two objects with a mass, or whether it is a curvature in space / time due to the mass of an object, the phenomenon "gravity" is always related to the mass of an object and doesn't stand on its own as an independent force of nature. Dark matter is not a "mysterious" thing that passes through itself. Dark matter is just the container concept of matter out there that doesn't interact a lot with other matter, but just leaves its marks in the universe by showing a gravitational force as interaction with other matter. Since we have only little understanding of gravity and we still have difficulty measuring gravity as a force in the universe, we have difficulty understanding and measuring dark matter directly. This doesn't mean it is not out there.