Highlights from a number of papers that have attempted to measure the effect of the ADA on employment, in chronological order: DeLeire (2000): 

Here is another bulletin board posting with a seemingly very detailed, though uncorroborated story about a live monkey brain being served in a Guangdong restaurant. This baidu article describes the supposed procedure used traditionally (100+ years ago): 

As with much research in economics, the evidence is messy and mixed. And so my answer will have to be an unsatisfying "we don't know". In a review paper, Jones (2008) arrives at a similar conclusion: 

None give a proper citation as to who is doing the "believing", "contending", or "thinking". The closest I can find to a proper analysis is this informal analysis by a blogger, whose conclusion is: 

The quote from that webpage ("nearly half the world’s population, 2.8 billion people, survive on less than $2 a day") was probably true when written, but is now probably outdated for two reasons (it doesn't give sources, so I can only guess why it's outdated): 

Did any Frenchman circa the colonial era ever say or write such a thing? If so, what/who was the original source of this saying? Or did Lonely Planet (or someone else) simply make it up in the recent past (I first came across this quote in the 2005 edition of Lonely Planet Laos)? Briefly Googling, I can find only recent mentions of this quote with no original sources. 

My question is: Did this woman really die of a heart attack and was pronounced DOA at the hospital, shortly after this video was taken (as claimed by the accompanying message? 

Another frequent myth that has cropped up a couple of times in the comments above (@jwenting and @PaulJohnson): Myth #2: "The $1.90/day figure overlooks non-monetary transactions (e.g. barter) and self-produced, self-consumed goods. ... "... For example, a farmer who owns a huge farm and lots of livestock, simply survives off his produce, never engages in any monetary transactions with anyone, will be counted by the World Bank as having an income of $0/day and therefore be counted as 'extremely poor'. But he may actually be extremely well-off and have all that he needs." This is also wrong. Unfortunately and again shockingly, the $1.90/day figure already accounts for all such non-monetary transactions and also all self-produced, self-consumed goods. So the farmer with the huge farm will also have a (correspondingly-huge) monetary value imputed to his annual agricultural produce, and he will NOT show up as having $0/year in the poverty count. Instead, he will show up as a reasonably affluent man. 

This may seem puzzling, given the "angry working-class" narrative. Here's a YouTube video that uses this puzzle to explain a statistical fallacy known as Simpson's Paradox. (TL;DW: Minorities tend to vote Democrat. Minorities are poor. So the Democrat candidate usually completely dominates the poor vote. In 2016, there was a huge swing in the white poor vote towards the Republican candidate this time, but Hillary still won the poor vote, albeit by a smaller margin than is usual for Democrat candidates.) 

Edit: I found a Chinese internet user's book review, which dismisses this very Bill Bryson quote as "laughable": 

Two difficulties: (1) Difficulty in recognizing the script. (2) Difficulty in understanding the meaning. Example: This stone inscription is dated circa 374 BC (more than a century after Confucius died, so Confucius's writing would probably have been even more different). (Source) 

Based on all this information, my guess is that this is probably an academic urban legend, perhaps first started by that 2002 Nature news article. This does not however mean that the claim is necessarily false; merely that no one has actually ever done the proper work to back it up. 

Here is the accompanying Excel spreadsheet with the data. Here are Balding's blog posts on Singapore. To my knowledge, these claims of his have received no coverage by the state-controlled media in Singapore. And I can find no serious, in-depth discussion anywhere of the merits and flaws of Balding's claims. So are his claims correct? Note that S$800b is about 200% of Singapore's annual GDP. In comparison, 200% of US GDP would be US$36 trillion. 

I found this claim novel and surprising. Was this ever true? If so, when and where? This line is in the context of several pages where he was rattling off some examples of bad statistics from fields other than economics. (He doesn't cite any source. Nor does he state the specific time range or location when/where this impropriety allegedly occurred.) 

P.P.S. There is too much faith in the peer review process in general and even here on this site. Those who actually have experience on how the sausages are made in the publication process will know that an article that's peer-reviewed isn't automatically "better" or less "error-prone" that one that isn't. 

According to the above graph, the claim would've been true in 2012 and 2013. But not in the past few years. 

Here are two more recent papers to support the notion that consumers do suffer from significant "left-digit bias". Lacetera, Pope, & Snydor (2012) looks at US used car sales data. It finds a large and discontinuous drop in sales prices at each 10,000-mile mark of the odometer. 

More examples here. It is admittedly rather more common for a modern Chinese person to have studied Classical Chinese than, say, a modern Englishman to have studied Old English. Nonetheless, the study is rarely to very great depth and mostly by rote. Bright high-school Chinese kids taking the gaokao for example will have memorized tomes of texts by Confucius or Mencius regarding human nature or what-not. They can spit it back to you and tell you roughly what is meant, but only because they've been taught it and have committed it all to memory. But if "Confucius were to come back to life today" and write down an actual shopping list, or ask for directions to the nearest Walmart, these same kids would not be able to comprehend it at all. 

These tend to support the notion that consumers have a left-digit bias. So do retailers tend to have 99-cent pricing because they want to exploit this bias? I do not have data regarding retailers' motives, but this seems to be a reasonable conclusion to make. Some competing explanations--such as that retailers do this mainly (i) to circumvent employee theft or (ii) because consumers like to receive change--can perhaps be rejected based on evidence that similar 99 cent pricing is common in e-commerce, where there are usually no cash register or coins to deal with. Examples: Hackl, Kummer, & Winter-Ebmer (2014), Levy et al. (2011). 

(Read from top to bottom, right to left.) Transliterated in modern Chinese script (traditional), it reads (now from left to right): 田車孔安。鋚勒馯馯。●●既簡。左驂旛旛。右驂騝騝。吾以郪于原。吾戎止陜。宮車其寫。秀弓寺射。麋豕孔庶。麀鹿雉兔。其●又陳。其●奔奔。大車出各。亞●帛興。吾執而勿射。多庶(走樂)(走樂)。君子迺樂。 (● = Indecipherable. 。 = Added full-stops, since in Classical Chinese there was no punctuation.) Difficulty #1: Recognizing the characters The first two characters (田 and 車), for example, are quite recognizable. In contrast, the third and fourth characters (孔 and 安) are very different (at least to anyone familiar only with modern Chinese script). So, simply because the script was so different, it would be impossible for a modern Chinese person (without special training or education) to read this inscription "as easily as a shopping list". Difficulty #2: Understanding what the characters mean, individually and when strung together This second difficulty is far greater. To continue with one commenter's analogy regarding Chinese/Japanese false friends, consider the following (Chinese characters: "meaning in modern Mandarin Chinese" v.s. "meaning in Classical Chinese"): 

The passage below is from Ho and Bhat (2015), "Exploring the potential nutraceutical values of durian (Durio zibethinus L.) – An exotic tropical fruit", Food Chemistry (link). ("This is the first detailed review on durian, an exotic tropical fruit.") My interpretation: The durian-alcohol link is possible; more research is needed. 

A frequent misconception/myth (expressed for example by @Tanmoy in the comments) goes something like this: Myth #1: "stuff is much cheaper in poorer countries; therefore $$1.90 can go a longer way in poorer countries." This is wrong. When such figures as "702 million people survive on less than $1.90 per day" are quoted, they really DO mean that the world's most miserable 702 m people have to survive as if they had less than $1.90 a day, while facing the average USA prices! This is shocking and unbelievable for those from countries with no historical experience of extreme poverty (e.g. the US). But it is sadly true. How do these 702 m people survive on less than $1.90 per day at USA prices? Well, many of them don't. And those who do, manage to survive, only very barely and very miserably. 

P.S. In response to the discussion in the comments above, Angrist is among the top economists and Acemoğlu is as sure a bet for the Economics Nobel in the next 10–20 years as any other economist. The Journal of Political Economy is one of the so-called top 5 journals in economics. In contrast, the other authors cited here are far less well-known and their papers appeared in far less prestigious journals (in fact some were not published in any peer-reviewed journals). The above information is just FYI; make what you will of it. I personally do not pay too much heed to how well-known an economist is or how prestigious a journal is. 

See also the comments, which all agree that Bryson's remark is simply wrong. Of course, these are just the opinions of some random modern Chinese people who happen to be on some online book review site; they may have no idea what modern Chinese people as a whole are like. Here is another Chinese book review with a similar remark. Edit2: See also the top review of Bryson's book on Amazon 

I can find no actual calculation to back up this claim. In addition to those already given in OP's question, we have these other quotes. 

The video below circulated in Singapore (and I think Malaysia too) on Whatsapp and Facebook with the accompanying message. (Though my guess is that it was taken in China.) $URL$ 

Inflation. (My guess is that they were using 2005 prices. The current threshold uses 2011 prices.) More importantly: Progress in reducing poverty. Rapid progress continues to be made in reducing poverty. (My guess is that the webpage was using figures circa 2010.) 

MacKillop et al. (2013) surveys smokers and finds that smokers' self-reported probability of a quit attempt also jumps discontinuously each time the price of a pack of cigarettes crosses a dollar mark. 

The above debunking seems plausible, but I wonder if there's a more thorough and well-researched account of whether this is really a myth. 

Of course, that many book reviewers consider Bryon's book to be riddled with errors does not mean this specific claim of his is false. But it does give us further reason to be very skeptical. 

An 1825 piece claims: The following inscription is written, in large characters, over the principal gate of the city of Agra, in Hindostan: 

Strictly speaking, false, but only because Hillary won the $200,000-$249,999 bracket and tied the $250k+ bracket. At least according to exit poll data conducted by Edison Research (and used by CNN, ABC, et al.), whose reliability I cannot vouch for. (You can expect academic researchers to release more reliable data in the coming months.) 

I don't have specific information on Sweden in the 1970s, but it is indeed perfectly possible that the marginal tax rate (MTR) exceeds 100%. (When one Googles "marginal tax rate above 100%", this question is the #3 hit. Both the above question and accepted answer seem to suggest that a MTR exceeding 100% is "ludicrous" or impossible. Which is why I felt obliged to post this answer, which addresses the more general question of whether MTR > 100% is possible, rather than the more specific question about Sweden and Astrid Lindgren in the 1970s.) For example, according to Shaviro (1999), in the US, for certain households with an income range of $12,850-14,350, the MTR was 109.2%. What this means is that if a household earning $12,850 (before taxes and transfers) decided to work a little more in order to earn another $100, this additional work effort would actually result in a net loss of $9.20! 

The reverend's $48,000 figure is also kinda weird. To my knowledge there's no poll with a cutoff point at $48,000. It's usually some nicer rounder number. Otherwise, the point the reverend was trying to make was not exactly wrong. Voters with family incomes below $50,000 were more likely to vote Hillary. Those with higher incomes were more likely to vote Trump. 

I can imagine it's more dangerous to live and breathe in a certain city for a year than to smoke one cigarette a year (at some completely unpolluted location). But I have trouble imagining that it's more dangerous to live and breathe in any city than to smoke cigarettes non-stop, continuously for every second of the day (again at some completely unpolluted location). So I suspect this somewhat-vague claim by The Economist has some truth, but we need to be more specific about the rate at which we're smoking cigarettes (and possibly other factors as well). And so my question: In what sense (if any) is this claim true? 

Lessig cites no sources whatsoever for the above story. So I am looking for more credible sources/information as to whether there was ever any such anti-helmet campaign in the Soviet Union. 

Bottom line: The $1.90/day figure is unbelievable for most people living in rich countries. But that's really what it means. Surviving on $1.90 per person per day, in a place where the prices of goods and services are the same as in Averagetown, USA. 

No further detail is furnished. No source is given for the above information, though as the article is written, I infer that this information was from one "Daniel Stiles, a self-styled ape detective who lives in Kenya". So is this claim true or false? Did any human being ever pay for sex with an orangutan in Indonesia? 

Is the above true? And also, what was the estimated boost to the birth rate? (I imagine that if there is some truth to the matter, economists, sociologists, demographers, and other academics will have studied the matter and attempted to estimate the effect of the curfew on the birth rate.) 

In Malaysia, there is an ongoing (though not entirely successful) boycott campaign of McDonald's, on the grounds that McDonald's is a 

(One source for the above figures.) Note that at least conceptually, the extreme poverty threshold is supposed to have stayed the same in real terms. That is, $1.90 per day at 2011 prices is supposed to be equivalent to $1 per day at 1985 prices (in real terms). Once again, it must be stressed that, shockingly enough, these are USA prices. 

This may seem incredible, but is perfectly possible because of the "phasing out" of certain transfers/benefits (such as the TANF or today the EITC), where, as your income increases, the transfers/benefits you get are "phased out". I'm not sure if today (late 2017) there are any US households who still face a MTR of over 100%, but it is well known among economists that due to the way the US tax and transfer system is constructed, the MTR can be very high. A more recent 2012 CBO paper says the MTR ranges from 17-95%: 

This 2012 English language article tells us that "China Cracks Down On Monkey Brain And Other Wild Animal Delicacies" (though it doesn't claim that it's live monkey brains that are being cracked down upon). The answer to the question in the text ("Is there really such a somewhat common practice?") is probably "No": Nowhere can it be called "somewhat common". (It is however of course possible that I am neglecting some undiscovered tribes in the Amazon or what-not, or some far-flung Chinese village somewhere which likes to indulge in this traditional cuisine.) 

The logic being that people rarely (if ever) wash their reusable bags and so these end up having a lot of bacteria, which can and does kill. This paper received a lot of press attention at the time. Several factors suggesting that their claim is not credible: Shortly after, there was this reply by Tomás J. Aragón, a health official to debunk the above paper (basically saying that while their hypothesis is plausible and merits attention, their study is not very good and provides no evidence in favor of their hypothesis). Also, Klick & Wright (2012) seems to have languished in unpublished form and has few citations (2 on Google Scholar at time of writing). Is there any other evidence for or against their claim? 

No, but it is true that a very large number of people are in "extreme poverty", as defined by the World Bank. One recent estimate (source) is that in 2015, there were 702 m people living on less than $1.90 per day (at 2011 prices). 

It is thus not at all unlikely that at some point and for certain individuals in Sweden, the MTR may have exceeded 100%. 

Here's a YouTube video that discusses these issues and in particular dispels the myths and misconceptions mentioned above. 

The question in the title differs from the question in the text. The answer to the title question is "Yes": It is certainly part of traditional cuisine some places in the world, if perhaps exceedingly rare or luxurious. Example: The man han quan xi (or the Manchu-Han Full Course), indulged in by Qing Emperors, consisted of such treats as: Camel's Hump, Bear's Paw, Monkey Brain, Gorilla Lip, Elephant Trunk, Leopard Foetus, Rhinoceros Tail, and Deer Sinew. These are merely the Eight Treasures from the Mountain. There are also several other sets of Eight Treasures that one must assemble before one can call it the Full Course. These other treasures consist also of a long list of other very exotic things, most of which are no longer commonly eaten by most Chinese people. With the exceptions of Bird's Nest and Shark's Fin (which are totally bizarre things to eat for non-Chinese people, but which are still very common). This 2004 article claims that it can still be found in Guangxi. This other 2004 article, also by TVBS, reports that a monkey was adopted by the Taoyuan County Department of Agriculture, only after members of the public saw it with its head shaven and being offered "for sale" and bought it out of sympathy and then gave it to the Department.