It may be difficult to find proper photos that emulate this, both because given the tools and the subject, most people would opt for longer exposures, and also because of the general difficulty in emulating how our brain processes visual information into an image, especially in low-light or high contrast situations like this. I think the photo at the bottom of this article may be a decent recreation of it, though it's a bit fuzzy and not so wide. Note: There are star trails forming in the image, which is indicative of it being a longer exposure. The image (unless cropped) doesn't appear to be from a wide-angle lens - I would guess somewhere in the 35-50mm range. Perhaps a 10 secondish exposure, but my judgement is more based on result than technique. What you can see will depend a lot upon the conditions of the night. You're probably not expecting a lot of light pollution, but you also have to keep in mind that your eyes will adjust to light as well. A cell phone or a full moon can be enough to prevent you from being able to see well. If conditions are perfect - little to no light pollution, no light from cars, flashlights, etc, a new moon, low humidity/no clouds, etc, and the milky way is in a good position, you will be able to pick out the galaxy quite well. You should be able to notice both the high concentration of stars as well as the 'milky' lighter shade caused by the many stars too dim or distant to appear bright. 

Well, it would be useful to define what a 'dead' galaxy is. Probably the most simple method would be a galaxy that is no longer producing new stars. We might also consider a galaxy that no longer produces significant light in the visual spectrum, or perhaps EMR across the entire spectrum. Generally, there's unlikely to be a firm line between living and dead, and not nearly as dramatic as larger stars. More akin to watching a camp fire burn itself out. Star formation is largely dependent available gases, but as more and more stars fuse those gases into heavier elements, there is less gas available for star formation. For your average sized galaxy, this will eventually result in running out of gas. Eventually the galaxy will dim and go dark, a process purported to begin at the center of the galaxy, where star formation is heaviest according to research based on Hubble images of giant galaxies. (Tacchella, et al.) The matter ought to (mostly) all still be there and still orbiting the (presumed) SMBH, but with no energy coming from fusion, it's going to be a dark, cold, and barren place. Sounds dead to me. There are some complicating factors. It's believed that encounters with nearby galaxies can affect available gases. The gravity from a larger galaxy could potentially strip the gases from a smaller one, a fatal blow for the smaller galaxy. Fortunately, it won't suffer much as the death will come (relatively) quickly. This process has been deemed 'strangulation' by a study published in Nature several years months days ago. (Ping, et al.) Note that as the study indicates, the methods of death are proposed solutions - not conclusive understanding of the exact processes that result in a galaxy's death. 

This is most likely not noise. Photographic noise is generally going to be limited to roughly single pixels. This is because much of it is generated at the individual pixel level (often a single color, so not even an entire pixel) on the sensor. There is also some relationship to this and overheating - I'm not familiar with the cooling systems of the Hubble, but presumably it's sophisticated enough to prevent serious noise from overheating. When examining the photo, you can see that these are not individual pixels but rounded seemingly point-source light. It's hard to say whether this is an accurate representation of their actual angular diameter, as they may have acquired some of that rounding by diffraction. Regardless, this suggests that these are not artifacts from the sensor but are actual light sources. For a long exposure photograph, this also means that they are a persistent light source. The colors that they are composed of also fits the colors we would expect to see from stars. Unless there has been some very heavy editing done with the intention of representing noise as stars, I think it's fairly safe to say that these are all stars or other star-like light sources. 

I think it's important to note that finding life and finding intelligent life are 2 different things. We might expect there to be unintelligent life on a significant number of planets, but the number of factors to create intelligent life are exponentially less plausible than just creating life. We must also factor in the very real possibility that any life intelligent enough to discover E=MC2 will quite probably destroy themselves. The cosmic window of any intelligent life could be very small, and the chances of any 2 planets with intelligent life at the same time could be remote. Although homo-sapiens have been intelligent for a few thousand years, we've only really discovered how to send our message into space in the last 50 or so years. There is a good chance that our species will die out in the next couple of hundred years (global warming, nuclear threat, super-bacteria, etc). 250 years is not even close to a blink of an eye in cosmic terms. 

Although astronomy is very cool and the things we are learning are awesome, is there really any practical use to knowing the things we know about the universe? Do other fields of science draw from the current tome of astronomical knowledge? 

If I'm not mistaken, it is believed that the reason for such turbulent weather on the 4 outer gas giant planets is that the internal pressure is so great that it is generating heat, which is causing convection, which causes extreme weather. Will these planets forever generate heat, or at some point will they freeze up? What will Jupiter look like a trillion years from now? 

If our solar system were to somehow be created outside of a galaxy as a single star in the vast nothingness between galaxies, would life on Earth change any? Does being a member of a galaxy actually provide some kind of benefit to our solar system or the creation/sustaining of life? 

Regardless of how big or small, how hot or cold, do all stars have a goldilocks zone, and if so, could any given planet in this zone (with the right configuration) support life? 

Whenever we hear an explanation about the big bang, it is always phrased in such a way that it was an explosion which used some kind of pressure to expanded the universe out. I wonder, however, would it be possible that our universe bubble started as a point that wrapped around the singularity and contained it. Then, for some reason, this bubble started to expand, which caused the energy in the singularity to fill the newly created empty space. Could it be that this bubble, which is now our universe, is still expanding, and the universe is still trying to fill the space, which is why we see dark energy? Could we even know, or would either way look exactly the same to us? 

When a proto-star becomes a main sequence star, is that something that happens in an instant when a certain threshold is met, or is it a process that takes a few thousand/million years? 

Earth is traveling at a certain velocity. Earth orbits the Sun at velocity X. The sun is orbiting the center of our galaxy at velocity Y. The galaxy is orbiting (something?) at velocity Z. On and on... In relation to zero, Earth has a velocity of X + Y + Z + (?). Is it theoretically possible that there would be a point in space where nothing is moving and velocity is essentially 0? If so, what would time look like at this point in space? 

Viewing my Facebook feed today, my local news station posted regarding a solar eclipse taking place today: 

Most photographs you will see of the Milky Way are long exposure photographs (often around 30 seconds exposure, whatever the limit is before star trails become noticeable at their focal distance; sometimes longer if they use a tracking mount) at a very wide aperture. This is done to capture the maximum amount of light and, in fact, capture far more light than your eyes can capture. It also usually takes a little adjusting to colorize the Milky Way the way we expect it to be colored. Note, that this doesn't mean the photos aren't real - if you define photos' realism by representing exactly what people see, then no photo has ever been real. While you may not be able to see the Milky Way to this degree, you can still go out and see her. As others described, consider your location and time of year, take care to find a dark spot with clear skies and give your eyes enough time in the dark to adjust. 

Assuming you mean a day in terms of an Earth day in both cases, the phenomenon I believe you're referring to is called time dilation, which affects the speed at which time is experienced by one body relative to another. This rate is affected by velocity and gravity, each of which can cause the bending of spacetime that results in the discrepancy between objects. Both gravity and velocity slow one's time as they increase. The situation you describe is probably not naturally occurring, however is not outside the realm of reality. As referenced by Wiki from Calder's book Magic Universe, Calder claims that an acceleration of a constant 1G (what we feel on Earth all the time) would result in the affects of time dilation allowing you to traverse the entirety of the known universe in a single human lifetime (for the traveler). Conversely, during your trip, the rest of the universe would be aging 'normally'. There are plenty of technical problems with the feasibility of achieving this, but is conceptually possible. I'm not particularly qualified to explain the equations behind it, so I'll leave that to our more capable members. Coincidentally, time dilation is the excuse I give when asked why I walk so quickly. 

As you've said, the definition of binary star systems would mean that the cases you are describing would not be considered binary star systems. That said, there are other arrangements which exceed binary, but are often thought of as including binary relationships. This is due to star systems which reach beyond binary often resulting in hierarchical arrangements. For instance, many triple star systems involve what is largely a close binary star system with a third star that orbits the pair at a much greater distance. For an extreme example of this, consider Castor, which is a sextuple star system containing three binary star pairs. These systems wouldn't technically be said to be binary star systems, but rather to contain binary pairs, but given the question I can't think of a better way of having a binary star system that isn't a binary star system. Note that the hierarchical nature of super-binary systems is a matter of system evolution. Systems which would not be considered hierarchical are believed to be unstable, which would eventually result in the ejection of a star from the system. 

One would not, under normal conditions, die within seconds. This is a common trope in science fiction, but there has been quite a bit of real research into the subject. Let's speak on each point.