Although you didn't mention any pain, I have found myself in this position and on long rides I think it contributes to neck/shoulder pain. Roadcycling.com says: 

The most comprehensive bike sizing chart I've found is from Wiggle and it also explains how to use the charts. If you'd rather avoid shop-bias then this article also has some explanation and a simple chart at the end. Beyond that you should probably go for a professional bike sizing from someone like BikeDynamics (if you're in the UK). This is pretty cheap compared to the price of a bike. 

So you can try putting your hands closer to the centre of the bars when it's safe to do so, or getting slightly narrower bars. 

Long slow distance is great for building up a strong aerobic base (circulatory and respiratory systems), if you have the time. However, unless you choose good rides it can be boring and few people would consider doing it on an indoor trainer. For those who don't have that time, there's a century training plan in Chris Carmichael's Time-Crunched Cyclist and most people would consider a century long-distance. However, if you're not so concerned about getting a great time, then the amazingly-simple way to train for longer rides is to go out and ride, each time slightly increasing the distance. A bit more detail on long-distance riding is given on YACF. 

I tried with bathroom sealant (supposed to be white, but dried clear/grey). After a couple of months cycling in all weathers it's still in there. Seems like a cheap and easy solution. Shown below in the right hex-bolt only. I'll now be adding this to the other bolts too. (Some credit should go to Darren Cope who suggested something very similar). 

I have also discovered Bike Dynamics in Leamington Spa and Bike Science in Bristol. I'm planning to contact them as well as the other suggestions and see what they offer, updating this answer with my experiences. 

I'm not sure whether the brake mount in the fork is all carbon, or some of it is alloy underneath, but either way I'd like to know what a sensible torque is. As far as I can see from the manufacturer's website there is no such specification. How can I find this out? 

On the downside the wider bar is occasionally awkward to fit through gaps in queueing traffic. Some advantages of a drop bar:- 

A normal clincher tyre will have a "bead" as shown in the following diagram. It's possible you have a "tubalar clincher" like this: 

Unless you're way off the recommendation, though, you should spend some time trying to get used to the new set up as you suggest. I'm sure you'll get more control as time goes on. 

Sometimes whether or not you can see the droop depends on the angle. Whether it is a problem might depend on pedalling style. As long as you still have a little slack at all points around the pedal stroke, it's not too tight. Tight spots can cause resistance turning the pedals and additional wear to the chain and rings. As Sheldon Brown notes: 

I suggest that you recheck the torque at regular intervals. If the torque is less than it should be then the nut is working loose somehow. This could be due to vibration, dropout material expanding/contracting with heat/cold, meddlesome kids, etc. One solution might be to use a threadlocker - a weak glue to stop parts from vibrating loose. The recommended type for bicycle use is blue. I believe you can also get a red type which is stronger, but it might mean you need power tools to undo the thing. 

If you are concerned about fashion or being ridiculed by cycling snobs, go for a compact double with as large a rear cassette as you can find. You can easily get a 32-tooth rear cog for most groupsets and may even be able to fit 11-34 if you're willing to go with something 3rd party. If you actually want to be able to climb hills more easily, go for a triple as PeteH suggests. You will be faster and your knees will thank you in years to come. While SRAM seem to be moving away from triples entirely, providing some super-wide cassettes for mountain bikes (but not road bikes AFAIK), both Shimano and Campagnolo offer a range of modern triples for road bikes. 

As long as no part of the clamp touches the rails outside the max lines, you should be safe. The scale is simply there to help you. It would be nice if it ran right up to the max lines, but it might still be helpful depending on the size/design of your clamp. 

In addition to the probably-familiar effects of exercising very hard, air pollution may be a factor in your discomfort. When you exercise hard in an city with plenty of traffic nearby and at least one vehicle accelerating right in front of you, then you'll be breathing a lot of air pollution, especially if it's the evening rush hour on a hot day. This study reported in the British Journal of Sports Medicine, concludes: 

Whenever I hold up a car for more than a couple of seconds, I make a point of giving them a big thumbs up or wave of thanks, just to let them know I'm not being selfish or oblivious to them. I'll also look out for a safer place for them to overtake and swing back into secondary position as soon as I safely can. Granted this only helps once the irritated driver has been waiting behind you, but I'd hope that in the long run it may help drivers become more understanding. On a city commute, it's not impossible for the same car to pass you several times, so it might directly pay to be polite. 

Any cranks should do, as long as you can attach two chain rings to the rear spider. My guess is that chainline is unlikely to be an issue if it differs by up to 30mm, as it's a longer run than on, say, a dérailleur system which seems to cope fine with offsets of at least 30mm. What you will need to watch is that the two chains are narrow enough that they don't catch each other on the adjacent rear chainrings. I tried using a super-wide (1/8") KMC single-speed chain and it was so wide that it caught on the adjacent chain. When I switched both (actually 3 chains, two for sync) for KMC X1 they didn't touch. Yes that is possible, but hardly anyone does it, despite most teams being unmatched in power. Firstly it feels odd and would probably make the frame flex/wobble due to the way you're each moving your weight about. Standing up would be very difficult/dangerous. The cadence is a compromise on a tandem. If one person has trouble spinning and has shorter legs it might be worth giving them slightly shorter cranks. Be careful not to give either rider a crank length which would make them uncomfortable. 

I find silver, black and occasionally red are quite dull colour choices. Granted there are some components out there in more interesting colours, but the engineer in me won't let me choose the "wrong" component simply because it looks pretty. So I'm wondering what the options are for colouring metallic components, chainring bolts, brake levers, etc, at home. I suspect painting wouldn't look quite right and in the case of bolts, might cause things to get stuck or flake off in use. How about anodysing? Is it something that can be done safely at home without too much risk of ruining the component? Does anyone have experience of this? 

If both bikes have a frame which is set up for it, with the long drop-out on the Thorn pictured below and the EX Box below it, then it would be the work of 5 minutes. Just unscrew (possibly by hand) that big nut on the ex-box, remove the wheel and put it onto the other bike. 

I think it depends a lot on what you're used to. I doubt that everyone has the same upper or lower limit of temperature that they can cycle in. Acclimatisation is often overlooked. I ride all year round in the UK, which means most of my riding is in the range of 5-15 degrees C. Last year I attempted the international randoneé Paris-Brest-Paris and met cyclists from all over the world. It's arguable that those of us from temperate climates had an advantage as we were already used to the conditions. At the start of the ride it was about 18 deg C. I was wearing short trousers and short jersey and a thin gilet. I felt a little too warm, but was basically comfortable. I was shocked to see riders from India dressed in full-length tights and several layers including helmet covers and a "winter" jacket. One rider, from Malaysia I think, also covered his face apart from the eyes with a buff. When I spoke to them, they consistently mentioned how cold it was. I guess they must've found it really hard as temperatures dropped riding into the night. On the other hand I guess they were used to riding in 40 degrees C, in which I'm sure I'd suffer badly. I can't believe this is down to some genetic difference between Northern Europeans and Asians, because those who live here seem to be comfortable in similar clothing to me. So if you're willing to put up with an uncomfortably high or low temperature, whilst taking proper safety precautions, I'd guess you can acclimatise to a wide range of temperatures.