As a conclusion: The universe seems to be quite restrictive about where life is plausible and what forms can it take. This list is not complete nor is it by any means certain, but it can give some idea what are the most probable candidates for life from the point of view of science. Very good source can be found here - it is a short table listing polymer-forming elements and this is paired with typical solvent, that could take role of the liquid solvent in which the life based on given element could form. There is also another, even more extensive source on alternative biochemistries here. 

Imagine we build a space station much larger than the ISS with more or less today's technology. (For example in a scenario in which price of transport to orbit per kg is significantly reduced by technological progress.) The design of the station might look approximately like the Space Station V from the Kubrick/Clarke's 2001: Space Oddysey, but the dimensions may be different. My question is: if the station should serve as modest and more or less permanent settlement for N people, how big does it need to be and (maybe even more importantly) how heavy does it need to be? Assume we are really trying to use light materials for construction, because mass is very limiting factor in space. The station does not need to be self-sustainable, food would be transported from Earth. 

Metals and other solids have different problems. Complex molecules created in one part of the solid cannot be easily transported to another place, where they are required. In a cell full of liquid, every molecule floats around in a membrane or inside the cell and can randomly encounter other molecules and trigger chemical reaction. In solids, such mixing does not happen or would happen after very, very long time. (Of course now we are not talking about life looking like intelligent robots, that are assembled in factories. These would be probably plausible - but we are talking about life as a chemical process that could evolve on its own from more basic chemistry.) Life needs complex polymers If we investigate life based on chemistry, it seems it also needs stable polymers with rich chemistry. And here is a point at which carbon seemingly beats the alternatives: 

Important rule of thumb is: If it burns, it is in principle possible to eat it. Remember that food is primarily a source of energy. Stones are not, they are oxides of silicon and some other elements and they are very low-energetic. So nothing can really eat stones. (If we do not consider possibility that it would perform nuclear fusion in its stomach.) It is possible to eat wood and some animals evolved to do so. Humans eating wood are possible, but not very likely, since there would have to be really strong evolutionary pressure to do so and we would have to be lucky to find the right adaptation before we go extinct. So far, it seems there are many, many more easier ways how to find food than such a big adaptation as eating wood. I can easily imagine, that in future, we would be able to develop bacteria by a genetic manipulation that would digest cellulose and help us to digest wood. Chances for this occurring naturally seem very small to me. 

There is many studies (e. g. Yang 2013, Hu & Yang 2013, indirectly Joshi 1997 or Joshi 2003) that investigate this in context of tidally-locked planets of red dwarf stars. The reason is that such planets have to be very close to their parent star in order to maintain liquid water. Their orbital periods are short (15 - 40 days) and tidal-locking occurs quickly and naturally. Because of the quick rotation period, which is the same as the orbital period, the Coriolis force is crucial. The most important feature, already pointed out by PipperChip and Vincent, is that the hot air is rising at the substellar point, which causes lot of rains, and the upper winds move towards the dark side. The winds at the level of ground move towards the substellar point, replacing the missing air. However, the Coriolis force turns the winds in the direction of rotation, which causes strong westward winds and maybe even superrotation as on Venus. 

This should be similar to planets that are completely tidally locked to their star, since the day would be very long. There is several articles that study their climate. For example Joshi 1997 or Joshi 2003, or Yang 2013. While the Earth has difference in average temperatures between equator and poles around 40 K, these articles predict temperature differences 40-70 K for tidally locked planets with Earth-like atmosphere. Earth, however, would not be completely tidally locked, it would only have very long day. This could be paradoxically more dangerous for its habitability. Earth is very vulnerable to freezing into a snowball state. If completely tidally locked to Sun, the insulated side of the planet would probably never freeze. With very long day, however, the freezing of the night side might trigger the global freezing of the Earth. According to Linsenmeier 2014, planets with high obliquity are less vulnerable to freezing, while planets with low obliquity are quite vulnerable. However, the day length after tidal locking with the Moon would be 46.8 days, not 28 days, since the Moon gets further from Earth as the Earth rotation slows down, which in turn slows its orbital period. At this point, the Moon would be 1.4x further than it is now. 

Problem with cooling It is only one of many factors, but there is a problem with cooling of such planet. This was discussed several times on the Internet. The waste heat is a problem, since probably the only way how one can get rid of it is radiating it away from the planet surface. It is not easily possible to direct it away by some machinery, as this process would necessary consume lot of energy thus producing even more waste heat. If the surface temperature is supposed to be 30 C, according to the Stefan-Boltzmann law, it radiates 480 watts from every square meter. (And we do not count the incoming solar radiation! Such planet would be best situated somewhere far from its star in a cold region.) Today, average person in USA consumes about 10 kW of energy, which is entirely changed into a waste heat. This gives us that at population density 48,000/km2 - almost twice of Manhattan, the planet will start having problems with cooling itself. Of course, the bigger the energy consumption, the smaller population density is possible. 

Care/harm: Protect others from harm. Probably based on the need to nurture offspring. Fairness/cheating: Includes ideas of justice, rights, and autonomy. It is based on repeated Prisoner's dilemma and reciprocal altruism. Loyalty/betrayal: This foundation includes fact that we are group animals and we had to cooperate withing groups for long time of our history. It includes patriotism, identification with our group, tendencies not to be "too different", etc. Authority/subversion: We are hierarchical animals. This foundation includes leadership and willingness to follow, as well as respect for natural authorities. Sanctity/degradation: Idea behind this foundation is to avoid contamination. It contains emotions of disgust, as well as widespread notion that one should live in a clean way. According to authors: 

Some time ago, I calculated a toroidal planet numerically. In this answer, I give the parameters I obtained for reference to anybody who would be interested in this question. Method Rock and metals may seem solid, but on the scale of planets and in the pressures in their interiors, they are in a very good approximation liquid. To have a stable toroidal planet, its surface must have equal potential energy. In other words, when moving on the surface of the torus, we must not be doing any work. If this important condition is not met, the planet is unstable. I represented the planet by putting many massive points, for which both potential and gravitation force can be calculated, in many slices that form a torus. Each slice had three circles of massive points. Several tests showed that putting more circles of massive points or more slices does not change the result too much.