While very little is actually known, it's not crazy to think that smaller stars might have smaller oort clouds and larger stars, larger ones, though there's a great deal of uncertainty on what an average oort cloud is, how far an average one extends, and how densely packed they are. First part first, how often does a star pass within one light year of our sun? Not very often. Ballpark, maybe every million to couple million years or so. The last time was 70,000 years ago, a small star, 15% the mass of the sun. See here. In the fly-by section of that same wiki-article, it says a star passes that close (0.82 light years or less) about once every 9 million years. Scholz's star is quite small, only about 15% the mass of our sun, and it's unclear if it had an Oort cloud that extended .82 light years at all, so while it passed through our Sun's Oort cloud, it's unclear if the inner solar-system passed through it's Oort cloud, assuming it has one. It's also possible that the sun stole much of Scholz's star's oort cloud during the fly-by, but that's just speculation. Did Scholz's star send Oort cloud objects heading towards Earth? That's a good question and the answer is, probably, but we don't know, because if it did, it would take longer than 70,000 years for any re-directed Oort cloud comets to reach the inner solar-system. By the same article, an estimated 2 million years for re-directed Oort cloud objects to reach the inner solar system, so, in about 1.93 million years (give or take), we'll start to see what Scholz's sent our way. :-) In 1.36 million years, Gliese 710 could pass within 1 light year of Earth. The estimate is 1.1 light years plus/minus .577 light years. Gliese 710 is larger than Scholz's, about 60% the mass of the sun but we know nothing about how large or how dense it's Oort cloud might be. But, very generally, it seems likely that the Sun has passed through another stars Oort cloud at some point, perhaps every 1-10 million years, perhaps every hundred million years or so, but it seems reasonable to me that has happened and will continue to happen, on rare occasion. 2nd question, what would happen if the inner planets passed through another star's Oort cloud. If we use our Oort cloud as a model, and, warning, these estimates are enormously ballpark, but, a trillion Oort cloud objects 1 KM or larger and the Oort cloud extends between 100,000 and 200,000 AU (lets say 150,000 as a middle estimate), that works out to one 1 KM or larger object per cubic region of space about 15 AU across. That's 3/4ths the distance between the Sun and Neptune, so if you figure just one, 1 KM or larger comet or object in a 3D space over such a vast distance, most would pass by the inner planets unaffected. The occasional one would get it's orbit measurably altered with a fly-by of one of the gas giant planets and rarely, there would be an impact. Now presumably there's more smaller stuff in Oort clouds too, so there should be smaller impacts more frequently, though there's almost nothing that's actually known about how dense Oort clouds are, so anything beyond "infrequent", is impossible to say. Passing through another Stars Oort cloud should take tens of thousands, perhaps 100,000 years years or so, so there probably would be the occasional impact on a planet here and there, but on a human time scale, significant impacts should be very rare. 

Could you pull the quote to that 4.6:1 ratio. I didn't see it in that article and that sounds much too accurate for an estimate in this field. 4.6 to 1 suggests about a 2% range of uncertainty. I find that hard to believe. Certainly a ratio with that kind of accuracy should cite a respected research study. 

now, I want to point out that it's them, not me who did the typos on 2 of the objects, I'm pretty sure (based on Wikipedia and the chart below) that it should be 2004 VN112 (not 2994 VN112) that has the 3:1 and 2012 VP113 (not 2004 VP113) that has the 4:1. This chart below also has a typo, it should be 2010 GB174 not 2012 GB174. I guess nobody proofreads letter/number assignments. Correct names will help if anyone wants to run the numbers see how see how close the resonances come to each other. 

First, It's a great question. Mostly the answer is straight forward, so I can answer it, but it's still a great question. and I'll add a similar, but slightly more detailed picture to the one you posted. 

Just going off the Wikipedia article you posted, it says the hot jupiter superflare theory was abandoned. 

I've read 10 fold, not 20 but I'm not sure which is more accurate. He didn't use a telescope but that doesn't mean he didn't have new equiptment. He had equipment specially built, some of it, 10 feet high. This article describes some of his equipment. Nobody before him used equiptment this good. He more accurately measured the placement and precise angles in the sky of many stars and planets with 10-20 times better accuracy than anyone before him. He didn't use a telescope but that didn't matter. He didn't look deeper into the solar-system or universe, but he mapped it more accurately. It was Brahe's accurate placement of Mars that helped Kepler work out his laws. There was even a rumor that Kepler killed Brahe to get full time use of his observatory and his notes on Mars, but exhumation provided no evidence of that. Brahe was known for his voracious appetite and partying and is thought to have died from excessive drinking. The telescope didn't really help Kepler with his work either though he used one. Kepler's skill was primarily in mathematics, which helped him work out the laws of orbits. Galileo, who came about the same time as Kepler, but in a different part of Europe, built a better telescope, that was also a 10 fold leap forward. The Telescope was instrumental in some of his key discoveries like Jupiter's moons and the phases of Venus. I don't know if Kepler had access to Galileo's telescope. It was considered a military secret. 

I personally don't like talking about planets by their mass cause it gets rather unwieldy in size. Take Ceres, mentioned above. It's 8.958 × 10^20 kg. A 400 KM diameter ice world would have a mass of, figure a water-ice average density, about 3 x 10^19 and 200 KM diameter, 1/8th of that, about 3.75 x 10^18. The minimum mass is somewhere in those ranges, but I think radius and composition are easier to work with. 

If we only look at equal force per surface area, which is what you're describing, it's not density, it's the ratio surface area to mass. The Moon's surface area is about 7.4% of Earth's (about 1/13.5) and it's mass about 1/81st of Earths. Source. 81/13.5 = about 6. That means given equal pressure, the moon should accelerate 6 times as much which corresponds over small distances to 6 times the distance or 90 CM per year - BUT, that's if you ONLY take into account the pressure. The effect of the sun losing mass has equal effect on both the Earth and the smaller Moon. And a 3rd factor to consider is the tidal bulge on the sun caused by the Earth-Moon system, which is very small but all these effects are small. The Earth-Moon system creates a tiny bulge on the surface of the Sun and because the Sun rotates ahead of the Earth-Moon, that tiny tidal bulge has a tiny pull on the Earth-Moon system that slowly accelerates them and pushes them slowly away from the sun. That effect is equal for both the Moon and Earth too. All 3 of those are factors in the 15 CM per year estimate and only one of them has 6 times the effect on the Moon than the Earth. The planets Venus and Jupiter might also be factors in that 15 CM per year estimate too, but lets leave that alone for now. If we consider the 3 body problem it gets very mathy, but I'll just talk about how it applies to solar pressure. Lets start with a picture. 

You're right. Black holes have a minimum mass of about 2 and change solar masses and that much mass simply wouldn't go unnoticed, even with it's tiny size, it's tidal effects on the orbiting planets would be noticed even by armature astronomers "Hey, Neptune isn't where it's supposed to be" - that kind of thing would get noticed. Also, as it passed close to the sun it wouldn't just draw a spiral off the sun but it would make the sun distinctly egg shaped. That much mass wouldn't work, but we don't know the objects mass. We don't know if it's a black hole or what it is. Black holes don't suddenly develop either. They're made in the cores of very large stars when they go supernova. So your thinking is correct there too. 

This seemed logical to a lot of people including some big brains throughout history like Aristotle, Ptolomy, even Copernicus and Kepler himself thought circles were neater than ellipses, but he couldn't deny that the carefully detailed planet charts and the mathematical calculations worked so much better with ellipses. It wasn't until Newton that they knew why. Newton worked it out that ellipses are stable orbits, and in fact a circle is a type of ellipse with zero eccentricity. Somebody said once, and I'm repeating, setting a dial exactly at zero is very hard because you're always going to be off by a tiny fraction. Setting the dial between 0 and 1 is easy. That's why all orbits are ellipses. Now when you say perturbations, that usually refers to a 3rd body in the system. For example, Earth-Sun, the Earth orbits the sun in an ellipse. If you have Earth and Venus orbiting the Sun, Venus and earth perturb each other's ellipse.