The trick here is that the Hero has to think he has utterly defeated you, so you need a little stagecraft. Find a minion that resembles you somewhat, and perform surgery and other manipulations to make him resemble you perfectly. Dress him up in your finest robes and stick him at the end of a dungeon somewhere with a perfect escape route. Bonus points if you brainwash him to believe he is you trying to enact one of your B plans for world domination (be sure to add in a keyword that is unlikely to be spoken to him to remove the brainwashing in case he succeeds). Next, have your three, probably well-known, lieutenants guard and protect him (alternatively, if you want to keep said lieutenants around, repeat the first step with minions that look like them). You can brainwash them too if you want to make sure they don't let it slip that he's not their real boss. You have now set up a situation that, in every way, looks like what the hero expects (BBEG in a lair, threatening to take over the world). If he defeats him, then the hero gets what he wants, and stops hunting you. If he fails, that's one less hero to bother you (and potentially the world might be conquered while you sleep). As to you sleeping it off, you have a lot of options. I like the "pretend to be a prisoner in your own dungeon" approach. You might have to change your appearance to make that work, but when the hero finds you, you can wake up and be grateful, and tell a terrible story about how Lord Evilton was torturing you so you'd reveal where Plot McGuffin #3 was hidden, but you resisted, knowing some brave hero would come to save you. Feel free to give the hero additional information, like Lord Evilton boasted to you about how he couldn't be killed, and only a sword coated in the blood of a pure maiden thrust into the heart of his corpse could keep him dead (or something equally funny to see if the Hero will do it). In either case, you probably want to invest in some spells to misdirect any scrying done on you, and prevent mind reading and other pesky problems. 

It would work better if it was a bubble earth, a flat earth surrounded by a cosmic bubble that kept the air and water contained. Below the flat earth was a reservoir of water, that the water in the sides of the world fell into, and throughout the flat world were "springs" that magically drew water from the reservoir into the surface world. 

There are a lot of reasons they might take over this responsibility. The tenants of their faith are the obvious one, but I'll delve into a deeper area: The Government has threatened to revoke their privilege and their land unless they provide for the sick and the military casualties. You can have this be an entire interplay in the background of your story, of the Church providing these services, perhaps the minimum viable for the soldiers and better for the people it actually cares about. You can even have the doctors performing experiments on the soldiers or using them for research. 

There are a few ways to make this happen, but one I've been looking at recently is allowing FTL travel but not FTL sensors. One of the things that made WW2 era battles what they were was not knowing where the enemy was. In space, you can reasonably see where everyone is and where they are going given enough time. This makes long-range firefights more likely, with range really only limited by the speed of the weapon vs the reaction time and maneuverability of the enemy (fleets will engage at the point they can get kills, which depends on a lot of factors, as laid out in other answers). If you have a scenario where ships can move rapidly, but cannot be detected easily (or at least not their current position) your engagement windows shrink. By the time you spot a ship at the edge of the "system" it has already appeared next to you and opened up. This would lend itself to ship designs that involved overwhelming alpha strike capabilities on the offensive side and strong defenses on the defending side. Combine this idea with "jump points" or "hyperspace channels" that system to system travel has to be done through, and you have something more akin to what you are looking for. 

I think you need to consider how your technical garbage collection would work. At what point would a memory or personality go "out of scope" and no longer be needed, and therefore cleaned up by a garbage collection process, freeing that memory for other use. If the user is editing their memories and personalities, at some point a lot of data leaves scope and gets cleaned up. Does it really matter what Personality #12 did on its tenth birthday when you're onto personality #4125? The better, and more sinister, answer is if you remove all references to personality #12, would the person even miss it? Would they be able to know that they had personality #12 at all? You could have a situation where you keep the "base" personality safe and sound, and just update some references, so that when "base" personality went into the recursive loop (and created personality #2) you edit that memory so that instead of waking up as personality #2, the person recalls waking up as personality #x, where x is the earliest recursion you are keeping for memory purposes. Since you can estimate the amount of storage a typical lifespan would require, you can allocate and keep y number of personalities, deleting and updating references to old ones, keeping them in a personality linked list of sorts. 

My personal favorite is 2, as it can be the basis for time wars. By the time the story occurs, there could be infinite parrallels, with war raging between many of them. 

An awful lot of cargo containers are received into the US every day. In a conversation I had with someone today about ISIS, they mentioned how easy it would be to sneak something aboard one of these cargo containers, as a very small percentage get inspected. Thinking about it, I know it wouldn't be "that easy" but what are the real barriers that might have to be thought around by our fictional terrorist? Let's make the following assumptions: The weapon is larger than a suitcase, but smaller than a car. Feel free to have some leeway here, as if size is really an issue, we can accommodate it somehow (using a smaller explosion and relying more on some other means to cause damage (nuclear or chemical weapon)). We can transport the item to a port or package it in such a way that it doesn't immediately look suspicious. Alternatively, we have people working at the origin port, the workers can be bribed, or we have means of getting the item onboard. We do not have anyone paid off or working in the US port. We do have someone who can pick up the package in a way that looks legitimate once it is off the vessel. Let's assume that all normal safeguards are working and in place as normal. The item might let off some radiation or chemical traces that could be detected by scanners. We may have sufficient access to line the cargo container to prevent this from being detected unless opened. We can bribe or threaten someone with a legitimate business connection in the US to get our item on a shipping container, and other items will be in the container. How likely is it that our package gets into the port itself on the ship? How likely is it it will get off the ship and delivered to our operative? What sort of preventative measures (that are public knowledge at least) would stop it?