I would rather start with some decent winter boots. They have a soft sole with traction and warmth. You can find lower end but still nice on sale for like $50 US. Decent chains / spikes will cost that much. The cheap rubber pull on spikes are more for icy driveways and sidewalks in my opinion. I don't endorse hi-tec but I got in trouble for not attributing using a random pic. Logan Mid WP 

Rather than convert it is just a lot easier to think of 100 as straight vertical. 1:1 is 71 Google Percentage. 

At night all layers cool down from lack of radiant energy from the sun. The wind dies down from the same cause. Cold air is denser and flows down hill. Valley is the worse place to be. About 1/2 up the slope is best. The cold air will push the warmed air up as is flows. Ridge line is not good as you more exposed to wind. In an orchard with a light frost you will see clear as day the valley and ridge take the most hit. Orchards with hills are more expensive. It is significant. First picture is hard for me to get a perspective. The second is not a good example. You are up near ridge line so there is not a lot of colder air from above to settle. Where this is more significant is a stream that is feed by a glacier miles up stream. That cold air mass will hit pre dawn just when it was already the coldest time of the day. Try and get up like 100 feet with some forest protection. 

OP added picture and it appears to have mooring cleats. Looks like there are three lift rings and some people put a mooring cleats over the top. In the picture that webbing is probably to assist getting in the boat. 

It take a few weeks to fully acclimatize. Say the tent simulates 5000 ft. In 3-6 weeks you should be acclimatized to 5000 feet. You have a stronger starting point. If you go to 10,000 it would still take your body about 3-6 weeks. Starting from 5000 it would be a little less than starting at 0 but not 1/2. It lets have a higher base camp. Say you want to climb 20,000 you could have a base at 15,000 versus 10,000. A lot of people climb without altitude training. Mt Rainier is 14,000 feet and a majority of people in WA live at sea level. Fully acclimatize is for major peaks - like 20,000+. I see your title is 8000 m so yes it should help. 

I don't use tampon but kotex yes. You get a lot of absorbency and more compact than bandage. They are cheap and highly available. In ski patrol I would lose bandage to moisture so had to replace a few times a year. 

You will need to counter sink (fostner) the nut (bottom right) on the back side (because it will be up against the wall). A drill press would be nice. Or space the board from the wall. Any solid wood thick enough. If you are not going to counter sink then you should be able to use plywood. Practice on a short section. 

Yes a bag will lose loft with time. Loft = insulation. Your best bet is to store in a large bag or hanging in a cool dry place. 

A short run is not even close to 6 hours with a pack. If you are not mobile and have to be extracted it could get expensive. Take some back to back long days with a full pack and see how you feel. 

River banks have trees making it hard to cast. You don't have the angle to cast up (or down). Typically cast up and let the bait take a natural path. For fly fishing it is the typically the only option. 

Yes it will create CO. The question is if the CO level is dangerous when you open the door to tend to the cooker. Put it by the door and don't enter the shed while cooking. 

Even 350 HP ski boat would not be able to pull that out. Dig it out with a shovel would be a lot of work. This is a task for a commercial salvage company. Or put like 30 people on it. 2-3 is not going to do it. It is far enough out that a frozen lake is not going to hurt it. 

Because Mt Rainier is way cooler. It is not only the largest peak in WA it stands alone. Seattle sees it in all its majesty when it is not cloudy. You can see Rainier from as far north as Bellingham on a clear day. From Bellingham you don't see North Cascades National Park as it is behind Mt Baker. With Mt Baker, Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, Ross Lake, and Winthrop North Cascades National Park has competition. I looked up the peaks in North Cascades National Park and I have climbed several of them. Never went though a gate to get counted. Sahale and Shuksan were two of my favorite climbs. 

As I stated in the comment I disagree with incorrect. It is a different but consistent representation of slope. A common interpretation of slope is rise (y) over run (x) y / x A problem with y / x is if x is zero then that is infinity and calculations get messy and reporting big numbers and infinity is messy. Going to call the distance you actually travel d The relationship is For slope Google uses y / d This solves this infinity problem A pure vertical is simply 1 Google is consistent. They refer to distance and the x axis is distance. With the angled presentation you are looking at distance. Call Google Percentage GP The conversion is 100*GP/SQRT(10000-GP*GP) 

Don't store them in the car. Hide them in the engine compartment or under the car. I don't even store butane in my house. Hopefully they have a pressure relief valve that they don't actually explode but I still would not store them in the vehicle. Combined with an ignition source you have a very nasty if not fatal fire. It is technically not an explosion but it goes boom and is very hot. Think how many meals you can cook and getting that much heat once. If you really need to store fuel in the car then consider liquid fuel. A leak and ignition would be very bad if not fatal. Nelson man died after gas from leaking butane cylinder exploded in his home Butane is odorless so unless they mark it with a scent you would no even know it leaked. I see this got a down vote and don't want to argue with you but leaving a butane cylinder in the car is a bad idea.