I use a mirror (a CycleAware Reflex) because, as others have said, it allows me to see what's coming behind me. Where I ride, the "bike lanes" are little more than poorly maintained pavement on the side of the road. So when it is safe, i.e., no traffic, I ride to the right in the roadway. I tried bar-end mirrors and glasses-mounted mirrors, but I didn't like either one. It did take some trial and error to get the mirror correctly oriented on my helmet, but now I get a good view of the road behind me. I've gotten fairly used to glancing back to see what's coming, so there are never any surprises. In fact, the other day in the grocery store I caught myself trying to look in my mirror to see if there were any carts behind me. I decided long ago: 

I think it depends on several factors, as you note. If there is no traffic (car or bicycle), then just stop (if a tree falls in the woods...). If there is car traffic only, then move as far to the right as to can to be safely out of the way. If there is bicycle traffic, then it might be worthwhile to move completely out of the bike lane to avoid hindering other cyclists. 

I own Firefox Rapide 21s, which has Acera 7s(14-28t) groupset are rear and Tourney 3s(28-38-48t) groupset at front. In a recent accident, the rear derailleur took some impact and is bent now, it doesn't latch on to 7th &1st gear. I went to a mechanic he applied some pressure to make it straight, he said it(method) could potentially make the derailleur straight, and I don't want to spend money in getting a new one. While coming back home, I tried to shift up to 1st gear to see what happens -- it dug into one of the spokes, locking the tyre, making me fall. Now that spoke is bent and has become loose. However, the real question is: Now, I don't like the method he has proposed to straighten it. Hence, I have decided to remove all the gears and make it a single speed. My focus always has been higher speed, so I'm thinking of getting 53t×11t(chainring×sprocket). But I'm also thinking - the ratio that setup makes might be a little bit too much for me in all circumstances. Therefore, I was thinking of fitting a double crankset up front(possibly 34-50t or 39-53t) and single sprocket(possibly 12t or 14t, respectively). Or is that even possible? I goolged and looked at most places, but could find any answer. 

crazyguyonabike.com is a set of forums and blogs for long distance trekking by bicycle. I have seen such requests there before. The Regional: North America forum is a common place for people looking for riding partners, discussing routes, etc., across North America. 

My relatively new Garmin GSC 10 Speed/Cadence unit has started losing connection to my Garmin 500. I'm assuming that the battery is running out, since I'm still using the original that came with it. I have done about 35 hours of riding. So I am wondering: how long should a CR 2032 battery last? I know this is a little subjective and will depend on ambient temperature and to a lesser extent speed and cadence for transiently illuminating the LED each pedal stroke/wheel revolution. But generally, how many hours can I expect to get from a battery? 

I'm building a wheel with double butted spokes, 2.0 mm at the ends, 1.8 mm in the center. The Park Tool Spoke Tension Meter has a conversion sheet to determine the tension in spokes of different diameters. My question is which scale to use: 2.0 mm or 1.8 mm. Logically, I think that I should use the 1.8 conversion, because the center of the spoke is 1.8 mm diameter. But the entire length of the measured section is probably not 1.8 mm, because it is tapering to 2.0 mm at the ends. The answer to this question suggests there is some acceptable variation, so I was thinking about aiming for somewhere in between. 

The bicycle that I ride is 3×7s. The largest chainring being 48t and smallest freewheel being 14t. I used to do high cadence riding, I suddenly started doing low cadence, high gear -- which led me to discover a problem while pedalling: At speeds between 30-42kmph, there a certain vibration which is repeated in cycles and I feel those vibrations in that period slow me down, or rather, add a little resistance to me building up speed. My cycle has a central side stand. This stand was loose - I did not observe any such vibrations then. After tightening the bolt of the stand - vibrations started and this only happens when I'm doing 48-14. Where is wrong? Please explain why and how is this happening if you know about it. 

I ride Firefox Rapide 21S, a hybrid bicycle. It has factory fitted flat-riser handlebars with Shimano EF500 levers for V-brakes with gear shifter integrated. I am an unprofessional rider, I always liked riding fast, I gained knowledge about dropbars and actual road bikes after getting this one, as I realized I needed more to go faster. I was recently thinking about fitting a dropbar to it and then mount my existing levers onto the place of hoods, as it goes beyond my budget to purchase them. Will it be a good idea to do so? Will it even work if I tighten it really hard so it doesn't slip? Or, just not get into this mess and I'll be alright with fitting them on the flat portion of the bar? I'm also attaching images of levers, but not dropbar(I haven't bought them yet). 

I have had good luck with Headsweats. They are pretty absorbent and keep my balding head somewhat protected from the sun under my helmet. 

I don't trust drivers, particularly the ones here in California. Riding alone, not it a group, makes me harder for drivers to see. Helmets are basically disposable, so I don't mine gluing a mirror to mine. I don't care about looking like a dork. I do that frequently enough in my regular life that time I spend on a bike is a drop in the bucket. 

My wife and I recently rented a tandem for a day. I found that, because everything needs to be communicated -- starting, stopping, changes in cadence, shifting (which might cause changes in cadence), etc. -- we were talking continuously. This was good. What I would like to have is a simple, efficient vocabulary for communicating the essential information. Does this already exist in the same way that riders communicate on group rides? While I realize that we could just make up our own shorthand, if someone has already figured it out, that would be better.