Random useful links: The Stellafane mirror and telescope calculator: $URL$ Mel Bartels' diagonal calculator: $URL$ 

Another option is a collapsible dobsonian. Not the pseudo-collapsible ones like the big SkyQuest series, but a true collapsible scope like the Sumerian dobs. A 16" dob built this way folds down into the volume of a regular travel suitcase. A 10" collapsible dob is like a small suitcase. These are built for the specific purpose of being taken on long trips away from home. $URL$ The 8" Alkaid Sumerian scope, at 800 mm focal length, is a pretty small dob already. The poles are probably pretty short. Should be easy to transport, and doesn't require much space when fully unfolded; you may actually have to place it on a stool or something. Obsession Telescopes also makes dobsonians of all kinds. Their Classic series are bulky when packed, but the Ultra Compact series is basically a true collapsible dob which might be worth considering: $URL$ You don't need a table for these scopes, since they are sitting on the floor. Table wobbliness issues are eliminated. :) There are equatorial platforms made for all these scopes, so you could even use them for photography. I do not own Sumerian or Obsession telescopes, but the feedback I hear through the grapevine is good. These are quality instruments that could be used as a general-purpose telescope even at home. 

EDIT: I think what you were really asking was - can a BH have its own magnetic field? The answer is yes. A BH can have 3 characteristics: mass, spin (rotation), and electric charge (a.k.a. the no-hair theorem). All other characteristics of the matter falling in it are lost, except these three. If you drop a proton into a neutral BH, then the BH acquires a charge equal to one proton, and that's a measurable electric field. Now consider a spinning BH with an electric charge, the Kerr-Newman metric. You have a charge, and you have spin. That means you have magnetism. So, yes, a BH can have a magnetic dipole. However, the rotation axis and the magnetic dipole axis must be aligned - a BH cannot be seen as "pulsing". Again, no signal from inside the event horizon can be observed outside. However, you should not imagine the electric (or magnetic, same thing) field as "escaping" the BH. It does not escape. What happens is, when the charges were swallowed by the BH, the lines of electric field remain "glued" to the BH, which then acquires a charge. Those lines of electric field have existed forever, they don't "escape" anything, and continue to exist after the charge is trapped by the BH. Note: electric fields and magnetic fields are one and the same. One could appear to be the other, depending on the motion of the observer. 

Regarding the debate with your friend that made you ask this question, the only way in which one could view the Moon as a planet is by the fact that its orbit about the Sun is convex. That is a consequence of the gravitational force exerted on the Moon by the Sun is always greater in magnitude than that exerted by the Earth on the Moon. That's not a good definition; the IAU certainly doesn't use it. Along with the Earth's Moon, there are several outer moons of the giant planets that have this same characteristic, and they're all listed as satellites. 

Update, in response to edits to the question Molecules cannot form inside of a star. The temperatures are just too high. Molecules decompose (split apart) into their constituent parts at high temperatures. The Sun's photosphere is about 5800 kelvins, which is already too hot to sustain very many molecules. Temperature rises rapidly with increasing depth below the photosphere. The Sun's core temperature is about 15 million kelvins (27 million Fahrenheit), and the Sun is a small star. Larger stars have even higher core temperatures. At 15 million kelvins, there aren't even atoms, let alone molecules. There are instead atomic nuclei and electrons. Atoms are stripped of their electrons at those extreme temperatures. In five to seven billion years, our Sun will have fused all of the hydrogen in the core into helium. That's when our Sun will become a red giant. Even then, it still will not produce oxygen. The first stage a one solar mass star experiences after leaving the main sequence is the red giant phase, where the core is an inert mass of helium surrounded by a shell of fusing hydrogen. Eventually (after another billion years or so), the temperature of that helium core will rise to the point where the helium starts fusing into carbon, plus a little bit of oxygen via the first step on the alpha ladder. At this point, the Sun will leave the red giant phase and join the horizontal branch of the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram. This is a rather short-lived phase of a star's life. The carbon and oxygen produced by helium fusion quickly (in stellar timeframes) form an inert core. At that point, our sun will become an asymptotic red giant. The red giant and asymptotic red giant phases are rather messy affairs, wracked by convulsions where the star expels lots of gas. Our Sun will lose about half its mass to such convulsions. Molecules do form when this expelled gas cools. This results in some of the prettiest pictures in astronomy, shown below. 

It's essentially a relativistic phenomenon (when applied to light), but it can be partially explained in a classic framework. It was actually observed before parallax in the late 1600s (the heyday of Newton), but it went unexplained until early 1700s. $URL$ Orbital mechanics of interplanetary probes Landing a probe on Mars or Venus would simply not work if you assumed a geocentric model. A geocentric description of the Solar System might remain valid in a purely kinematic perspective (just the geometry of motion) as long as you remain on Earth. But the illusion breaks down quickly as soon as you start to consider dynamics (see Kepler's laws), and/or when you try to actually leave Earth (space probes). Let me reinforce this point, since several answers and comments got it wrong: the geocentric and the heliocentric models are not completely interchangeable, or a matter of relativity. You could build an "explanatory" geocentric model, and it would be "correct", purely in a kinematic fashion (the geometry of motion), and only as seen from Earth. But the model breaks down as soon as you consider dynamics (forces and masses); it would also reveal itself as incorrect even from a kinematic perspective as soon as you leave Earth. This is not just an artifice to simplify calculations. The dynamic calculations are wrong in a geocentric model. In order to compute the very high precision trajectory of the space vehicle carrying the Curiosity rover and successfully place it on Mars, you must operate from a heliocentric perspective. The dynamics are all wrong otherwise. You would not miss the target only a little, in a geocentric approach, you would miss it by a lot - the vehicle would not even go in the general direction of Mars. Miscellaneous When observed in a telescope, Venus has phases like the Moon, and also grows and then shrinks in size, synchronized with its phases (it's large as a thin crescent, it's small when it's gibbous). In a geocentric model, the size changes could be explained by an elliptic orbit of Venus around Earth, but the phase changes synchronized with that are harder to explain. Both phenomena become trivial to explain in a heliocentric model. It should be noted that this does not necessarily prove the heliocentric model, just the fact that Venus is orbiting the Sun, not the Earth. So it's an argument against pure (or strict) geocentrism. Jupiter, when observed in a telescope, clearly has its own satellites. This was an early blow against a strict geocentric model, which assumed that everything must orbit the Earth. It opened the door to the idea that orbits could be centered on other celestial bodies too, and to the idea that things in orbit around larger objects could have their own smaller satellites (and therefore the Earth could orbit the Sun without losing the Moon). 

First off, that is a problem for our children's children's children to solve. It is not our problem. The quantity of materials mined from space so far is a bit over 380 kilograms, the 382 kilograms returned from the Moon by the Apollo missions, the 300 grams of materials returned from the Moon by automated Soviet spacecraft, 7 particles of interstellar dust returned from comet Wild 2 by the Stardust spacecraft, and 1500 particles of dust returned from asteroid Itokawa by the Japanese Hayabusa spacecraft. For the foreseeable future, there is very little stuff in asteroids that is worth anything on Earth. There is no point in mining commodity metals in space and bringing that material down to Earth. Doing so would be a money-losing proposition. Mining precious metals in vast quantities would turn those expensive precious metals into worthless commodity metals. One thing that might be of value on Earth is helium 3, but that is so very, very rare that bringing it down to Earth will have zero effect on the Earth's mass. This of course depends on making fusion viable; that's been cited as being twenty years in the future since the 1960s. Current estimates are well beyond 20 years. The foreseeable future (at most 50 years from now; anything beyond that is science fiction) of asteroid mining is using those materials mined in space in space. That opens the door to extracting substances that are extremely common on Earth. The same economics that dictates that mining precious metals in space doesn't make sense economically means that sending consumable up into space doesn't make much sense economically. For now, the most valuable substances to be mined in space are volatiles such as water and methane. This assumes a sizable space infrastructure that needs those substances. 

As the Sun rises, its color changes from reddish to orangish to yellowish -- and then to nearly white, even when the Sun never does get very high. 

You can if you have Star Trek or Star Wars technology. Assuming an old-style bulb thermometer released in a place far removed from a star, the temperature of that thermometer would drop rather quickly, eventually stabilizing at about 2.7 kelvin. With regard to a macroscopic object such as an old-style thermometer or a human in a spacesuit, there's a big difference between the temperature of interstellar space and the temperature of interstellar medium. Even if the local interstellar medium is in the millions of kelvins, that macroscopic object will still cool to about 2.7 kelvin because there's no substance to that hot interstellar medium. The density of the interstellar medium is so very, very low that radiation losses completely dominate over conduction from the medium. The interstellar medium can be very hot precisely because it is a gas (gases are a bit weird), and because it is extremely tenuous (extremely tenuous gases are beyond weird). 

Image processing software: For DSO: Deep Sky Stacker (beginner), PixInsight (advanced) For planetary: AutoStakkert for stacking. Subsequent processing could be done with Registax, or Astra Image. 

The transition between a disperse, rarefied cloud of gas, and an actively burning star with a clearly defined "surface" is very rapid. However, for a very brief time (maybe thousands of years? not sure), you might find something with a dense center, surrounded by a thin cloud; but even then, density near the central area would increase rapidly. Perhaps you need to ask an actual expert in stellar evolution; there are models that show exactly how each phase looks like and how long it would last. If you're looking for large expanses of gas or dust at densities comparable to Earth atmosphere, such a thing is simply not stable on a cosmic scale. It either dissipates if there's not enough gravity to hold it together, or it's part of an active process of collapse as a protostar or protoplanet. 

First off, the human eye is a wonderful device, but it's no match for modern cameras. We can't see colors at such low levels of light. We're all colorblind in those conditions. Only cameras continue to see color when illumination is low. As a result, when looking at objects such as nebulae or galaxies, including our own, all you see is a black-and-white image. Even with telescopes, the human eye still doesn't see colors in these objects. There is exactly one single exception - the Orion nebula, which is by far the brightest of all. Some observers, after a bit of practice, can begin to distinguish a few shades of color there. Planets, and some stars, are different. These objects are much more bright. The human eye has no trouble seeing color where color exists here. E.g. Jupiter is a slight shade of yellow, Betelgeuse is quite clearly red, etc. 

Does Saturn look equally soft in the center of the image, as well as near the edge? Good optics (mirrors, eyepieces) make a good image everywhere, cheap optics make an okay image in the center and a blurry image at the edge. My bet is that it's either bad collimation, or you haven't compared the view at 200x with another scope, or both. But it's hard to diagnose things over the Internet. You should probably get a 15mm eyepiece as well. You'll use it a lot, probably more than the 10mm.