Worldview is a great source of such multi-temporal composites, and as an example, here is a preview of yesterday's cloud cover by Suomi: 

PS: This is an adaptation of a question asked in the private discussion board of a first year university course on Earth Sciences, that I'm copying here so a wider community can benefit from it and the corresponding answer. As suggested by the moderators, I'll donate any reputation received from this question in the form of a bounty awarded to exceptional answers (in particular by new or low-rep users). 

I also looked over the seamount you suggested ("Pegas" in the above map and located at 16.136° N, 151.968° E approximately), that is about 100 km away from the location pointed on the map you posted, but I didn't found any island there either (on a search box 22x26 km): 

That is because the chemical reactivity of $^{18}\text{O}$ is slightly higher than that of $^{16}\text{O}$. For that reason, the biochemical reactions that produce calcium carbonate in foraminifera prefer $^{18}\text{O}$ over $^{16}\text{O}$. However, the temperature dependence arise from the fact that the difference in reactivity is smaller when temperature increase. Therefore, in warmer temperatures the $\delta ^{18}\text{O}$ will be more similar to seawater (no preference for any isotope), but at colder temperatures the chemical preference for $^{18}\text{O}$ will be stronger and, therefore, the $\delta ^{18}\text{O}$ will increase. This correlation with temperature is also known as the "paleotemperature equation", but as it is an empiric equation there are many slightly different versions, however all of them are pretty consistent. Several ones are summarized in figure 5 of the paper Oxygen isotopes in foraminifera: Overview and historical review (Pearson 2012) copied below, showing how the excess of $\delta ^{18}\text{O}$ in shells ($\delta ^{18}\text{O}_{\text{cc}}$) relative to the $\delta ^{18}\text{O}$ in seawater ($\delta ^{18}\text{O}_{\text{sw}}$) correlates with water temperature. 

I had a similar question, and then I learned that at the molecular level it is diffusion what dominates, that means that despite Hydrogen is lighter, it won't rise to the top of the atmosphere. Flotation as we visualize it doesn't really work at the molecular level (because it is overcome by chemical diffusion). Therefore, the Hydrogen in the atmosphere is evenly distributed trough it. To clarify it further, a parcel of hydrogen would indeed rise, but as soon as it gets diluted in the surrounding air, the buoyancy of individual molecules/atoms would become negligible in comparison to the chemical diffusion that will take the atoms in any direction, not just upwards, leading to further dilution of the original molecules within the parcel throughout the atmosphere. As for why that's the case, let's me explain how I visualize it: Imagine you put two a thousand million ping-pong balls in the middle of the Pacific ocean. Half of them with a piece of Iron inside. If you put a magnet in the coast of Mexico, you would expect all the balls with the piece of iron to end up in Mexico. However, the forces of the wind and waves hitting the balls in random ways is so much more powerful than the magnetic attraction in this case, that most likely the balls will end up all over the Pacific. In the same way, all molecules in the air are bouncing against each other with such a strength, that the fact that one is lighter than the other doesn't really play a role in the trajectory a molecule will follow on its journey trough the atmosphere. In any case there is not much Hydrogen in the atmosphere, that only contains a 0.00005 % of molecular Hydrogen (H2). 

Pretty confident to answer No here. Tsunamis are caused by water displacement due to earthquakes; this has nothing to do with global warming. Any changes in density would be trivial, and although the water would have more thermal energy, this would not affect or be influenced by the kinetic energy of the Tsunami. The only way in which a tsunami would be made more severe would be that any sea level rise due to global warming would be added to the Tsunami height. 

I can't see there being any physical cause - the water depths are too great for an ice mountain and the feature cross-cuts other geological features. Plus, it's not aligned with either the spreading axis of the mid Atlantic ridge or normal to it. That means that it is highly unlikely to be a fault or a hotspot track. Given that, some sort of processing artifact seems most likely. 

What you have probably seen in the movies, as used by the oil and gas industry is reflection seismology. This is where you shoot off a sound source (explosives, airguns, etc) and track the reflections of the sound waves from the various rock layers below the surface. At a smaller scale, there is Ground Penetrating Radar, good for a few 10s of meters at best, which is higher resolution and good for detecting voids. 

Quick and simple answer: A greater greenhouse effect. There is an equilibrium in place. CO2 weathering rates depend on temperature, so at lower temperatures, we see CO2 levels rise, warming the planet. At higher temperatures, higher weathering rates mean more CO 2 drawdown, so the planet cools. This is a very long term process. But this CO2 thermometer effect is believed to be the reason why we have had liquid oceans for all of known earth history. As far as the black body effect goes; this is correct - from the viewpoint of an observer at distance, Earth would 'appear' colder. However, this is because the emission height changes (see $URL$ ) for more of an explanation. Think of it as 'the height at which the atmosphere becomes IR-opaque' (although this is a simplification); the temperature then follows the lapse rate down to the ground. So raising the emission height raises the surface temperature. (NB late at night, add refs later..) 

To be clear, those circles surround the places where on summer solstice there is no complete nightfall (i.e. it doesn't get completely dark according to the different twilight standards). In turn, you can think about other set of equivalent circles where it never get BRIGHTER than a given type of twilight for at least 24 hours, those would be 

I have averaged the above elevation model in the north-south direction to obtain the average topography profile that Westerlies will face when hitting the mountains from the West (predominant winds come from between W and NW direction). This is how it looks: 

I would think that for the direction technology have taken, the most affordable options will go in the direction of having a camera taking pictures of the sky (in infrared if you can), and having and algorithm to analyze it and evaluate cloud cover. I found this paper that talks about that. It looks like the Red/Blue ratio is a good indicator to classify an image pixel as cloud or cloudless. 

(It doesn't cover Antarctica, but that continent doesn't contain any below sea level interior lands as seen in the first figure, so it doesn't really matter) Using the two datasets, I've calculated that the surface of dry land between 0 and -200 m of elevation correspond to $0.0065 \times 10^8 {km}^2$ (a 0.1% of Earth's surface). Taking that into account, the percentage of dry land between -200 and 800 m is a 69.1% of Earth's dry surface, or a 20.1% of the total Earth's surface. 

After having a look at the references of a few papers about heat index (like this one). It looks like the original publications you are looking for are 

As you say, the existence of organism that live out of chemical compounds expelled by hydrothermal vents (Chemoautotrophs), immediately render the sentence "All life on earth gets its energy from the sun" as an approximation. However, some approximations are pretty good for all practical purposes. Nevertheless, this approximation (even if right), have some deep implications when it comes to assess the likelihood of life in other celestial bodies, like Jupiter's moon Europa, which is the kind of concerns through which I got involved into this topic. First, there is a very important distinction to make regarding your question, that is really about 

It shows a pattern where the temperatures are dramatically lower where ice sheets have built up relative to today. Interestingly, a lower overall temperature means weaker mixing across latitudes, so some areas are actually warmer. Boston gets chilled by -20 according to the map. Also note the altitude effect. If the surface is raised by 1 kilometer, then due to the lapse rate, the temperature at the new surface will drop by 6.5 degrees. This is a very important factor in stabilizing large ice sheets. 

You need to define what you mean by 'adding more sun'. I'm asuming you mean 'increase the solar constant'. The amount of water vapour in the air is, as a first order approximation, related to temperature - every degree of temperature rise gives us 7% more water vapour. So if 'adding more sun' increases the temperature then it automatically increases water vapour. Now, to add more sun without increasing the temperature, you'd have to compensate by doing something like painting large areas of land white; this would increase the Earth's albedo, reflecting the extra solar radiation. No temperature change overall, so no water vapor change. The only direct effect of the sun on water vapor is something entirely different - through photo-dissociation. This is where the sun's UV rays directly break up water molecules. However, in order to have an appreciable effect on the day to day concentration of water vapour, you'd need to replace the Sun with a much bigger and hotter star that blasted out far more UV radiation. The problem here is that everyone would die. So as far as the question can be answered, it would be no under any realistic scenario. 

Well, one way would be to look through The rock forming minerals and see how many are represented. I strongly suspect that not all would be, so from that perspective the answer would be No. But from an inspection perspective.. For any given mineral structure, we can make changes by simply substituting various cations and anions as in pyroxene; for example, we can substitute Mg(2+) for Fe(2+). Or SiO4(4-) for AlO4(5-) - requiring other changes. So, assuming you had suitable equipment, you could find a naturally occurring crystal that was close to the desired symmetry group and tweak it with substitutions until it matched that group. Or more simply, adjust the pressure and temperature until the symmetry changed. There is a lot of phase space to explore. So from that perspective, the answer would be probably yes, we just haven't synthesized them all yet. 

Where R1 and R2 have in general to be equal to ensure a signal with zero mean, and the value have to be chosen depending of the range of conductivity values you want to measure and the resolution. If you want to cover a wide range (pure cave water to marine water), you will have very low resolution (un less you use a AD converter with more resolution than the 10-bits provided by Arduino boards). Alternatively you can have multiple sensors each one optimized for a different range. For probes meant to be deployed outside of lab conditions, concentric electrodes are recommended, otherwise natural currents going trough the ground/water can affect the measurements. The setup I used is this one: 

Or something like that, many other arrangements could be imagined. But at the end, a typical year would still have 365 days, but the lap years would have one day less instead of one extra day. 

The zoom area shown in the right was extracted from the circled area in the left. For the above animation I downloaded the original frames at high resolution from here. The resolution was reduced so that it is smaller the the limit of SE (2MB), but you can see it at full resolution here. Here you can see a closeup on the cropped section: 

The short answer is YES, but with a very important caveat. It won't be colder than usual, but colder than it would have been if the Greenland ice sheet weren't there to absorb that heat, and by a very small amount. This is true for the mean global temperature, but when it comes to the actual strength of one winter season in a particular location, the atmospheric patterns play a much bigger role than the melting of ice sheets. The latent heat (i.e. Enthalpy of fusion) of water is huge. The amount of energy needed to turn 0°C ice into 0°C water is the same as the amount required to heat up 0°C water to 80°C. Therefore, ice sheets and glaciers have a buffer effect on climate, as they are able to absorb a large amounts of energy without an increase in temperature. 

Let's look at this. A very large number of points for one question. First, the solar system. We do not see any hydrocarbons in the inner solar system (Mercury to Mars). This is because in this region of the solar system, dissociation by solar UV rapidly destroys primordial hydrocarbons. This effect is much weaker further out. Oil well 'replenishment' will happen to some degree over several decades, just from internal migration of oil. Typically only a certain percentage of oil in place is recovered, with the rest left in isolated pockets by the water flood. Give it a few decades and these oil pockets will tend to remigrate and link up, giving the appearance of replenishment. I'm not sure what you comment of The source of methane way too deep to come from fossils. No fossils involved.. That's an unreferenced assertion. Helium is present in Natural Gas as a result of accumulation of alpha-decay particles from radioactive isotopes; we can see this from the massive enrichment of Helium-4 over Helium-3. It's not a paradox; geological structures that can trap methane will also trap helium. The current theory behind petroleum geology is that source rocks with a high organic content (often containing biological hydrocarbons from algae and leaf waxes) are buried in sedimentary basins; at temperatures around 100-150 degrees C this kerogen breaks down to form crude oils (this is verified in the lab). Oil then migrates out of this source rock; if it encounters a trapping geological structure, which need not be sedimentary, then it accumulates as an oil deposit. Gas is similar, with a wider range of source rocks. The physics of how this happens are well known and established. I would also note that we don't see hydrocarbons coming out of mantle-derived volcanoes such as at Hawaii. This is a major problem for any theory of primordial hydrocarbons. Additional Points First, it would be nice if you provided references rather than a link to a book to buy.