The consequences of these design decisions are many. For instance, due to 1, 2, and 5 you'll find that when on very flat surfaces you can go very fast with very little (relative) effort. However, this also means that on even good roads you'll feel road vibration and every single bump. Due to 7 you'll be putting a lot more pressure on your hands as they support more of your upper body. This puts you in a position to provide powerful strokes without having to stand up, but means you may have to deal with more hand issues - which is one reason road bikes typically have 6. On the standard drop bars there are at least four positions which put pressure on your hands and wrists differently, and switching between them while riding will be important. Number 3 above means that if you consistently use a standing position, or prefer to stand to accelerate away from stops, you may eventually place too much stress on parts of the frame, including the bottom bracket. If you change to a road frame, you will really need to practice pedaling faster in lieu of pedaling stronger. The frames are simply not designed for strong standing stroking techniques, and the larger you are the more destructive those techniques are to the frame. Shift down to a slower gear when you're about to stop, and get up to a cadence of 90 before shifting to a faster gear. You might instead want to consider a hybrid bike, such as a touring bike. Alternately, many people simply put tires with no tread pattern, or a light road pattern on their mountain bikes. It would be much less expensive, but you may find that you quickly reach the highest gearing and want to go faster than the mountain bike is designed for. This is certainly much less expensive to try out, though, and provides a transition time to determine what your needs really are after you move. 

To be honest, the simplest thing is going to be getting tubes with the correct valve length for your rims. If your LBS won't do the exchange put it down to a lesson in what length valves you need for your flash 50mm rims. 

I'm not too familiar with handcycles, however you can get some really good electric assist bikes these days. Not sure what the situation is with your knee, however if you are able to pedal to some degree this might be the thing to help you where your knees would typically feel the strain like on the hills. I am currently considering a dutch cargo bike with electric assist, as the hills around my place are too much to manage 20kg bike, plus to toddlers and a bunch of groceries. From my limited research they'd get you about 15-20 miles at about 18mph, so not the full century, however it might be enough to let you do the recreational ride 

GCN do some great how to videos and will possibly be a good resource for you in your general overhaul of the bike. Here is one specific to you need for this post 

Given the bike operates like a single speed and all the gearing is in the hub, you should be fine removing the chainguard. Be warned though if you cycle in trousers this increases the chance of losing your trouser leg to the bite of chain meeting chainring. You're also more likely to increase the chance of the dreaded chain grease tattoo on legs or trousers. 

A more puncture resistant tyre isn't going to necessarily help in this situation. If you've come out of work and you've got a flat, it seems like a slow leak. If you didn't find anything in the tyre the 2nd time, I would be checking how you've seated the tyre on the rim, have you accidentally pinched the tube a bit, are the valves in good working order, are the tubes the right size for your 29x2.25 tyres? When you're at home and have time and focus I would very carefully check the rim & tape for sharp edges, I would turn the tyre inside out and very thoroughly check for embedded objects or grit floating around in the tyre. Further to this, check your tube to see what the puncture looks like (single hole, snake bites, etc). If the tube has already been patched, then ditch it and put a fresh tube in. As a side note on checking the tube and tyre for objects and puncture cause, you could mark the tube with a piece of chalk where the valve is so that when you take it all apart you can line the valve up with where it was on the tube so you can more easily inspect the tube puncture site on both the tyre (inside it) and the rim. I find this can be helpful to quickly identify the most likely site of tyre/rim damage. But simply the best way to never get a puncture on a bike again is, don't ride. But we all know that isn't going to happen is it. 

In addition to lots of reflective material and a good headlight, I recommend the super-bright Dynotte 400R tail-light. 

I recommend the Romisen "RC-2R4 II R5" LED flashlight (available from ShiningBeam.com). Its $26 + shipping and you can get two 18650 Lithium Ion batteries and a charger for another $30 + shipping from BatteryJunction.com. All told you are looking at less than $70 for 300 lumens of spot-light in a very small (think AA Mag-light size) flashlight. Each 18650 battery will last over two hours in this flashlight. I made a little block of foam and used a small velcro strap to mount the flashlight on my helmet (seen below with a similar-sized Jet III M flashlight): 

I used the Romisen light on my helmet two weeks ago combined with a 350 lumen flood light on my handle bars (Cygolite MityCross -- $175) for the 24 Hours of Great Glen mountain bike race. The combination of a spot-light on the helmet and a flood on the handlebars allowed my to ride single-track downhill at the same race-speed that I did during the day. The flood-light on the bars serves to cast shadows behind rocks and drops, giving good terrain definition for single-track racing that would be lost with just a helmet light. For dirt roads though, the Romisen spot-light on the helmet is way more than enough, throwing a large pool of light 50 yards or more ahead. I have used the MityCross flood light alone for commuting, but it only casts a defined beam about 15 yards ahead which isn't quite enough for me to feel comfortable at road speeds. These new LED flashlights from China (like the Romisen) are giving fabulous amounts of light and are mostly are standardized on the 18650 LiIon batteries. They provide a great value and can also be used around the house and anywhere you might want a flashlight. The big thing that bike-specific lights provide is sturdy handlebar mounts (which are harder to find for flashlights) though at a large price premium. For your specified dirt-road use I'd suggest that a 300 lumen LED flashlight on your helmet would be more than sufficient. 

The crank arm should definitely be lubed before installing into a bottom bracket. This is because of the long term rotations that are going to occur, and you want cranks to spin as freely in the BB as they can. As for other things like BB into the frame and headset, the reading I have done doesn't indicate that the BB needs to be greased prior to installation like you would a threaded BB; nor do headset cups into a headset. Park Tool have a couple of good tutorials for these two items ($URL$ & $URL$ Ultimately the reason you don't need to grease/lubricate those items at installation is because they don't move within the frame. The bearings will move inside each of the items. I.e. BB bearings rotate inside the BB shell and you will install headset bearings inside the cups. So it is the rotating parts that you would grease. The reason threaded BBs should be greased is to assist in the installation of them as the rotate into position (i.e. thread onto the frame). So ultimately there is no need to, however it shouldn't cause any harm if you do grease them before installation. 

It could be that you've cross threaded the lock ring, although you should notice this within the first few turns. To prevent it coming loose again though you could try some loctite on it. 

They can be found at $URL$ and they also do a range of different colours for the side if you don't want to do red on the side of the rack. $URL$ 

As @Batman says, 2mm is VERY little clearance on a bike. It is more likely to be the frame flexing (more so the chain and seat stays) causing the tyre to move around a bit. I would see if there is a way to mount the stand a little further forward on its bracket. You want to create as much distance as you can between your stand and the tyre as possible. Video example of a frame flexing to show what is meant by flex 

This light is the brightest I could find commercially available and seems to be visible from more than 1/2 mile away in bright sunshine (and much further at night). I ride with it on at all times of day while commuting year round. In my side-by side tests the 400R was significantly brighter than my car's break-lights. In the past 8 months I've had about 10 comments from drivers and as many from other cyclists about how bright the light was. 

Rolling resistance (more pressure == rolls easier) Pinch flat resistance (more pressure == less chance for the tube to tear when a rock squashes the tire toward the rim) Grip (with less pressure, the tire can conform better to rocks, roots, and other terrain giving a larger contact surface) 

If you are riding terrain where grip isn't too much of an issue (flat or low-angle dirt and dry rocks for example), then higher pressure will keep you going fast without pinch flatting. If you are riding steep downhills and/or on slippery open rock outcroppings, grip will be more important than rolling resistance, so use as little pressure as won't pinch-flat quickly. There is a 4th trade-off as well: weight. You can buy double-sidewall downhill tires that allow you to run very low pressures (such as 25psi) without any danger of pinch-flatting, but these can weigh almost double what normal cross-country tires do. As mentioned in other answers, your tires don't have to be the same pressure. Usually grip is more important on the front tire since most of your weight is on it while descending difficult downhill sections. Similarly, when riding on flat or climbing, most of your weight is over the back tire, so rolling resistance and pinch-flat resistance are more important for the back. I personally ride with a low-pressure (30psi in a tire rated 35-65psi) double-sidewall downhill tire on the front and with a higher pressure (50psi in a tire rated 45-65psi) cross-country tire on the rear. I sacrifice some weight, but otherwise get the best of both worlds: fabulous grip going down and easy rolling on the flats and climbs. Use your best judgment in going below the rated pressure of the tire, as pinch flats become more likely. If you go below the rated pressure, be sure to test it out on hard impacts (such as a rock-corner) on easy terrain before throwing yourself at high speed down a mountain where a blow-out would be catastrophic. 

Best place to look is Sheldon Brown's famous site. $URL$ I would suggest given the difference in diamaeter you will run into issues attempting to put your 700x23c tyres on a 650c rim. 

Without knowing more details about the fork (coil spring vs air spring) it is hard to recommend anything other than getting it serviced at your LBS. With that said I know on my MTB with fox float forks, that if I leave it upside down for a while it won't lockout properly. Usually because the oil has displaced within the chamber. Maybe try flipping it upside down overnight and then seeing if that helps. 

Keep the bike and fix it up. In your situation I would consider a single speed conversion. The beauty of a single speed is that maintenance is lower, no need to worry about shifters, deraileurs, etc. Just find a gear that works for you and the area you ride, and all you need to do is give the chain the occasional lube. I had an old 26 inch MTB that I converted to a single speed, pretty much the same needs as yours. Where I live we don't get snow, but instead torrential rain. My reasons for going single speed were mostly around expense. I couldn't afford a new bike, and wanted to keep the spend to a minimum. I knew I would be riding in the rain, where I would end up having splashed up road grit and grime cause damage to my drivetrain. I also wanted ease of maintenance. After the initial build and setup, I don't need to worry about gear cables stretching and dodgy shifting. I just need to lube the chain every now and then, and I know I have a good reliable bike to commute on in any weather condition. As @batman says you need to consider things like whether or not you have a freehub or freewheel and the impact that may have on chain line, and the type of conversion kit. You also need to look at your dropouts and work out whether or not you need a chain tensioner, or go fancier and get an eccentric bottom bracket (they are costly). But I would still suggest it is worth considering a single speed for commuting in bad weather conditions. In 18 months of commuting I haven't had to spend any money on the bike other than using some of my lube that I already had.