In terms of what we know about fundamental particles, everything about them can be summed up by their properties and probabilities. We really have no way of knowing anything else about them. They could be thoughts in the mind of God, or numbers in a giant spreadsheet being calculated by some cosmic computer just as easily as they could be the typical conception of them as little submicroscopic balls zipping around the universe. As far as we know, one of those underlying schemes could be substituted for another without us being able to perceive the difference. It also means that --again, as far as we know --that one electron could be substituted for another indistinguishably. That doesn't mean that they don't have a reality beyond those numbers, it just means that we don't (and potentially can't) know if they do or not. (In the case that we can't know anything else about them, whether or not you believe they have reality beyond what we know depends on whether or not you are a realist about noumenal properties.) 

There is no universally acclaimed, uncontroversial answer to the question "What is philosophy?" nor to the question of what is the function of philosophy or even whether it has a function at all. This makes it difficult or impossible to objectively answer higher-level questions about philosophy without referencing them to some specific philosophical perspective. In my personal view, philosophy structures diverse human activities to bring them into alignment, which would make it a human-referenced, and therefore human-dependent activity (although one could arguably imagine something similar being required by any other community of intelligent entities that might exist). This view of philosophy, however, is not widely endorsed. 

To address the second question first: Plato would object vehemently to the idea that he advocated oligarchy --in his system, the wise rule, not the rich, at least in theory. Under those conditions, he believed it was fine for the rulers to lie to the people, because they could be relied upon to only lie when necessary, and only in the best interests of the people. You cannot rely on the same presumptions when the prerequisite for rulership is wealth, not wisdom. That brings us back to the first question. Is oligarchy compatible with liberty for all? The answer is contingent. Oligarchs are unlikely to impose upon liberty unless it interferes with their pursuit of maximum wealth, and likely to impose on it if it does. 

Plato's thought has been hugely influential on world religions, with Platonic ideas having been integrated into Christianity (and arguably Islam), via the intermediary of Plotinus, a influential philosopher in the Platonic tradition. You can legitimately argue that Plato's orientation to philosophy is essentially religious, with the philosopher's relationship to the Ideal of Good (in Plato's system) being analogous to the relationship of a worshiper to God. However, if the Ideal of Good is to be identified with God, it represents a very abstract, depersonalized, intellectual vision of God. I've sometimes heard this referred to as "God of the Philosophers", the unity of all perfections. The religious orientation latent in Plato is made explicit in the work of Plotinus, who clearly identifies the Ideal of Good as a godlike being. Saints Augustine and Aquinas (the two greatest theologians of the pre-Reformation Christian church) identified God, as understood in the Christian tradition, with the Ideal of Good, as described in Plotinus' "neo-Platonic" worldview. They thus united the personal perspective on God from the Biblical tradition with the abstract perspective of a neo-Platonic philosopher. 

This is perhaps best viewed as historical accident. At this point in history, we are emerging from a time where the dominant religious voices, at least in the industrialized West, have been anti-science and anti-intellectual, and the dominant intellectuals have been anti-religion. The combination of those two trends has been a kind of tribalism, where people are judged, not on their own merits, but on their affiliation. A big part of the problem has been the fact that some of the most visible and loudest people who claim faith have displayed traits such as hypocrisy, judgmentalism, intolerance, corruption and willful ignorance. Given that there is no greater enemy of good religion than bad religion, these figures have poisoned the well for many others, and given religion a bad name across many different circles. They have also inspired an atheistic backlash, in which derision for religion is celebrated, or even demanded. This was not always the case, however. There have been times and there still are places where religion and intellectual rigor have gone hand in hand, or have even been held to be inseparable. As an intellectual of faith, I believe those times can and will return (and perhaps are already doing so). But until they do, you'll have to face the reality that many people on both sides will view someone with a foot in both worlds with suspicion, disbelief and even outright hostility. You may need to work extra hard to establish you and your faith as worth people's respect. But that is nothing new. 

One possible way to answer this question is to hypothesize that God wants good things for people at all times, but what those things are change as human circumstances change --even if God does not change. For example, at one point in human history, it was necessary for people to have large families because so few children survived to adulthood. Accordingly, there were a lot of religious prescriptions aimed at increasing the birthrate within the family structure. Arguably these rules might be of less importance in a new era where overpopulation is a very real threat. Or, to look at it a different way, we place different rules on our toddler children than on our teenagers and have a different relationship with them again when they are adults. Even a person who does not change herself could have differing guidelines for her children when they were at different ages, based entirely on their own needs and changes. 

I'm sure the study of philosophy has altered many people's religious beliefs. In my experience as a both religiously and philosophically inclined person, the "shock" is likely to be greater if your relationship with religion is primarily a case of "received" or unexamined beliefs. If you are already inclined to wrestle deeply with your theological (or other) beliefs, studying philosophy is, in general, less likely to shake your worldview. (Conversely, the study of philosophy can be an equally disruptive experience for someone who comes to it with a dogmatic or unexamined belief in a materialistic-scientific world view). Of course, there's always the chance you could be highly influenced by some particular philosopher with either an atheistic or a theistic worldview. With that in mind, the atheistic philosophers have been in the ascendancy for quite some time now, but I don't personally foresee that as a permanent trend. As far as philosophy courses, they are highly instructor-dependent and vary quite widely in terms of content, disposition and quality. It's not unheard of to find one that is openly hostile to religious belief, but even that might not necessarily be a bad place for a religious person solidly grounded in his or her faith --it might leave you better able to understand/defend what you believe in and why. 

You are being asked to decide what you think about whether some actions are always criminal by nature or not, and then to defend your choice. For instance, is killing another human being always a criminal act? Society says "no", not in the case of a soldier at war, or in the case of a executioner hired by the government. What about euthanasia (doctor-assisted suicide for the terminally ill)? What about shootings by police? America, right now, is in the middle of a big debate over whether police officers have too much protection from being charged as criminals for wrongful killings. That's the kind of question you need to explore in your essay. It will also be important that you choose one point of view ("yes, some acts are always criminal") or the other ("no, there are no acts that are always criminal") and that you do your best to convince the reader that you have considered the opposite point of view and still have good reasons to think you are right. 

I'm personally sympathetic to the idea of Egyptian influence on Greek philosophy. But the problem with using Plato as evidence for anything is that he is officially on record as endorsing the creation and promotion of wholesale fictions in the service of higher truth --his (in)famous concept of the "Noble Lie" as introduced in the Republic. He also seems to have had an antipathy towards taking credit for his own ideas and therefore always places them in the mouths of other speakers (typically, but far from exclusively Socrates). While this could be accurate, the ideas tend to have an idiosyncratic unity that argues against them actually being the unaltered arguments of so many diverse persons. He's generally considered to have wholly invented myths such as the "Lost City of Atlantis," and must accordingly be treated as an unreliable narrator with regards to historical fact. It's worth comparing and contrasting him with his classmate Xenophon, who is considered to be a more trustworthy historical source, but a much inferior philosopher. However, your question was not "should" he be taken as evidence, but has he been taken as evidence. The concept that Greek philosophy was borrowed from the Egyptians is a central tenet of Afrocentric scholarship, and is the core premise of British scholar Martin Bernal's influential but controversial three volume work, Black Athena. The concept draws heavily on the work of the ancient historians Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus who did in fact take Plato's statements (as well as other ancient sources) as evidence of actual Egyptian influence. This belief is currently discredited in more mainstream historiography, but as is always the case with history, it can be difficult to say with certainty which interpretation is the biased one, and which one is objective. While the Afrocentric viewpoint does have a clear political/cultural agenda, it is difficult to claim that the mainstream viewpoint could conceivably be entirely free of ethnocentric political/cultural biases either. In my own opinion, the truth probably lies somewhere in the middle: It's impossible to believe that Plato was entirely free of Egyptian influences, but a distortion to minimize the impact of his own original contributions to the ideas he synthesized. 

Technically speaking, only formal arguments --arguments posed in a formalized language such as mathematics or formal logic, or arguments in a formal system, such as categorical syllogisms --should be characterized as "sound" or "valid." Informal arguments, which are any arguments not in a formal language or system, are more properly characterized as "strong" or "weak." Typically, an informal fallacy is a "weak" argument that would be invalid if translated into a formal argument, but that resembles to a deceptive extent a "strong" argument (one that would be valid as a formal argument). Ambiguities remain, however, because no informal argument can be translated with complete fidelity and accuracy into a formal argument --there are irreducible ambiguities in natural language. This is the reason formal languages are necessary in the first place. Valid arguments that deal purely with logic rather than mathematics are easy enough to come by in any formalized logic, such as FOL. For example, this is a valid logical argument. X -> Y, X : Y (IF X THEN Y, and X, THEREFORE Y). You could make it sound by replacing the variables with statements that make the premises true, for example, X = "Canada is in North America" and Y = "Canada is in the Americas." Please note that although the statements are in natural language, the argument itself is not. 

Note: This answer is quite similar to Mauro's, but adds some explanation of the specific details of the quote. The context is Russell's apology for knowing less about the specifics of any one philosopher or philosophical era than a specialist, and therefore treating each philosopher with less depth and focus than the specialist would prefer. The highlighted quote is a justification for the utility of a single-author general survey, even despite the above reservations: The generalist author is better able to draw connections between widely separated philosophies than are the specialists, either working alone or together. The quote gives the specific example of a connection between the French Enlightenment era philosopher Rousseau and the philosophy of Sparta as described by Plato and Plutarch as one that a specialist in either Rousseau or Sparta might easily miss. 

As your other forum pointed out, the fallacy Trump is being accused of is False Analogy. The commonality he is seeking to draw is slaveowner --> therefore tear down the statue. However, the actual primary argument typically advanced for tearing down the statues is enemy of United States AND symbol of slavery and racism --> tear down the statue. In other words, Robert E. Lee's statue is a symbol of slavery, erected in explicit defense of slavery, whereas slaveholder is merely an incidental property of Washington, unrelated to the reason the statue was erected in the first place. It is a false analogy to imply that both statues are standing for the same reason. It is also misleading to suggest that there are not valid reasons for taking down one statue and leaving the other. With all that said, it is also true that there are people opposed to both statues, and who view having held slaves as itself a disqualification for being honored by the United States. So while Trump has deliberately chosen a weaker argument to attack, this cannot technically be called a strawman because there do exist people who hold it. Trump's claim might be considered a slippery slope argument, but that depends on whether on not you find it plausible that a significant number of people will switch from the first justification (enemy of the state, symbol of racism) to the second one (slaveholder). On the other hand, it is not certain that Professor Fahs can be accused of a fallacy either, because it is far from clear that Trump either actually does understand the significant difference between honoring the founder of a country that you belong to, and honoring the leader of a violent separatist group that attempted to dissolve the government (and that further explicitly stands for an ideology that was decisively repudiated), OR that he honors that distinction in the case that he does understand it, OR that he acknowledges that this is a key part of the reason the majority of the people who support removing the statues do support it. To put it another way, Trump is seemingly aligning himself with a backdoor effort to re-enshrine as a part of the national fabric and collective history an ideology that is rejected by the majority of Americans, and that the nation as a whole fought a costly and self-destructive war in order to defeat.