"I would generally expect that company-wide standards should apply when interviewing (ie. they would be the same when I interview as if I were to work there), but since this is the first point of contact following an interview, I hesitate to give a bad impression." If you don't want to give a bad impression, don't "nickel-and-dime" them. What do you want to be remembered as: "The guy with out-of-line expectations?" 

You must re-assert your authority immediately. There is no need to be rude, demanding or angry about it. You are the boss. It is within your authority to institute a performance-improvement plan. After a month or two, you can schedule meetings with everyone, including the insubordinate employees. Pick the one you will miss the least, and explain how they are being terminated. Have a security person nearby if you really think the person may attack you. Have your HR person escort them to their desk, observe what they are removing, and then out of the building. Don't be angry. This will create an example which may result in bringing the other insubordinate employees under control. If not, you will (regrettably) have to repeat the experience. Sure, it is too bad someone has to go, but every company has a "bottom 10%" of employees, and no one expects to be employed forever anyhow. Don't forget that you have to hire people to replace the ones you let-go. Don't let the applicant be interviewed by the troublemakers; they will bad-mouth your company. And meet with the group of trouble-makers and tell them you expect them to be professional and cooperate with the new employees. And that their effectiveness in integrating the new employee is another item being tracked on their monthly performance reviews. 

"tips (meals, taxi, cars otherwise paid for by host)" Let me get this straight: you want the job, but also want to spend practically nothing on the interview? "bus ticket replacement (I had to purchase a new one after losing the print-out sent to me by the company)" NO! It was your fault that you lost the print-out. How much did the replacement cost? = "nickel-and-diming" "hotel stay because I missed my bus (see above)" Probably "No," because the hotel stay was only necessary b/c you missed the bus. Look at it this way: at least you'll have an incentive to pay attention to important details. "My dog ate my homework" is long past. "day-pass to an airline club / lounge. (I had a 4 hour layover)" Unless you are a very senior applicant (Director or other), I would frown about claiming expenses like this. Unless you have won a Nobel Prize, nobody really cares about how comfortable you are, harsh as it may seem. "room service - standard breakfast fare when other options were limited." No and no. Room service is an extravagance. If the standard fare was unacceptable, buy yourself breakfast, and pay for it yourself. What are you, an epicurian? "Does it depend on the position that I am interviewing for? The company?" - Yes and yes. If you are a "C" level executive, you can ask for more. If not, no. "I would generally expect that company-wide standards should apply when interviewing (ie. they would be the same when I interview as if I were to work there)." But you DON'T work there, so this expectation is invalid. Finally, you seem preoccupied with what the company can do for you. 

Why not tell your colleague that you need to run it by your boss to see how how, and whether, it should be prioritized against your other work? You make it sound like he is just pawning off his work on you for no good reason, and if this is really the case he won't want you discussing it with your boss at all, and will probably back down on the spot. If not, your boss will probably try to put an end to it. If that doesn't happen, maybe there is a good reason for you to work on his tasks, and at least you will get some credit for them. If you do talk to your boss, be clear that you are willing to help out a colleague but you don't want to spend significant time on things your boss isn't even aware you are doing. And, by the way, you really shouldn't spend significant amounts of time on things your boss isn't even aware you are doing. 

To answer the actual question, it is rude if you don't offer an adequate explanation, but not inherently rude. The normal course of events is that an interviewee stays until the end of the interview. If you break that expectation it is rude not to explain why. "I'm done with the interview and I want to leave" (probably not a verbatim quote, but still) isn't very explanatory. Simply giving a reason that doesn't criticize the company or the interviewers is probably sufficient. If a frank explanation would be critical simply saying that you don't feel it would be a good fit isn't too bad. It would be more polite to recognize that your decision has wasted their efforts, which you can do by thanking them for their time and conveying a degree of regret in your tone, or perhaps explicitly, as in "I'm so sorry it didn't work out but I don't think I would be a good fit here and I don't think it's fair to take up any more of your time." So, it's not inherently rude but it is inherently awkward and requires special effort not to give offense. 

In short, there's a reason that many large companies explicitly state in their employee handbooks that supervisors can't date the employees they supervise, and if you run the company, you supervise everyone. 

This I don't have much of an answer for. In general, since your manager has low availability, I would plan to handle most things yourself, and keep him in the loop on the team's day-to-day activities via an email status. Other than that, try to keep your plate clean by assigning work out quickly and not getting caught up in any one item for too long. As a software developer, you may find value in reviewing recent code changes the team has done; read over the problem statement, then look at what was done to fix it, and that can help you get familiar with the code. If necessary, find a developer to walk you through some of the messier parts of the code. 

Based on your comment, I feel like your real question is "what do I do about Jennifer?" Being honest with her is your best bet. If your only options are "promote her into a position that's not necessarily best for the rest of the group" or "she leaves for a different company", you may need to take that chance because as it stands, I'm unsure that you'd want to promote someone whose actions are "repulsive to other members of the group" and who "openly questions and mildly quarrels with" the person who'd be her boss. On the other hand, if she's got the technical know-how, a greater desire for the job than others, and if she could get along better with her coworkers and the Master Chief, then she could be a great fit. You need to sit her down and be straightforward with her. 

If your only reason is "I don't think he's worthy of a leadership position", then you're unlikely to get very far; the company has made that decision already and put him into that position. You need to come up with legitimate reasons that the two of you won't mesh as well as you do with other coworkers, and explain those to your boss. However, bear in mind that once you've made your case, the boss will make his decision, and you need to accept it even if it's one you dislike. Continuing to complain, or turning out sub-par work in retaliation, is likely to result in a negative reflection on you and consequences up to, and including, termination. 

Although this won't make you look unprofessional to a professional (the vast majority of the time) you might want to use caution in front of a naive customer or manager. Just as you, with almost a year of programming experience, aren't sure if professionals need to look things up, so people with even less relevant experience might also be unsure. In fact, I have defended other developers on a few occasions when a customer of a consulting engagement said something along the lines of "why am I paying good money for someone who can't even write code without looking it up on the internet?" This has been rare, but of course I don't know how many people got a bad impression but remained silent. 

It occurs to me that in the specific case where you know the employer reliably shows employees the door the day they give notice, you could probably wait until the day you want to leave and give notice then. This leaves them nothing to badmouth, and you get to leave on the day of your choosing. Of course, if they actually want you to work those 2 weeks you have a problem. Possibly you could tell your new employer (in advance) that there is a chance your current employer may need you a couple of weeks more than you expect, and, though you think it's highly unlikely that you won't have everything wrapped up on the expected date, it is a possibility, and if it does happen you want to leave on good terms. 

I think you need to be sure you know what the real issue is. Do they think you are doing a bad job, or do they want an excuse not to pay you? If they really think you are doing a bad job then you need to deal with that, ideally after the issue of pay is settled. It is important for you to turn that perception around. It sounds like you don't think the results they are looking for are under your control. Try to get from them what they expect you to do to accomplish them. If it depends on other people try to get them to commit to helping you enlist those people to meet the goal. If they insist on holding you to a standard you can't meet, then it may not be something you can fix. Just be aware you are in a bad situation that won't likely change at this job. If it is really just a negotiating tactic, don't waste too much time on it. You can't talk someone out of something they don't really believe in the first place. Just make your case for why you should get whatever money/benefits you are trying to get. If they bring up the results that you feel weren't your fault, simply state that you disagree and it's something you will all have to resolve going forward, but believe you still deserve X and Y because of A, B, and C. Like any salary negotiation, at the end of the day you can't force them to give you what they don't want to give you. If they won't budge, you can tell them that you don't believe you are being fairly compensated (or, if that isn't true, that you don't believe your review and increase were fair), but you want to work with them to make sure that this doesn't happen again next time. And of course, you can always look for another job.