I've been working on creating a (digital) diary application for Buddhist laypeople and would like to ask this community for ideas about what can be written about in a journal like this which would be valuable for improving well-being and spiritual growth Here some ideas that I've gathered so far (not written in stone, including here just to show the general idea that i have): 

UPDATE to make the question more clear: The question is specifically about friendship with the Buddha himself (not general friendship on the path). I have chosen to call this friendship "spiritual" but maybe "virtual" or another word would be better, or another word that describes that the friendship is different from a person alive in the typical sense 

I'm looking for early Sutras that talk about gratitude. I'm especially interested in if there are lists of things that we can be grateful for, and there are sources that deal with gratitude for lay people. (So far I've seen the Maha-mangala Sutta, which in the translation linked to talks about "blessings", but in another place ("Old Path, White Clouds" by Thich Nhat Hanh) is translated as "observances", so I'm not sure if it's relevant) Thankful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

Vipassana meditation will help in studies. Since vipassana meditation focuses on removing craving, anger and illusion, you will notice your mind clear of when you study. 

It is insight, but need to be polished with Sammä Ditti. That is, always maintain that what you observe as such is, anicca (impermanent), dukkha (sorrowful, suffering) and anatta (cannot thus be considered "me", "mine" or "my soul"). Then extend that wisdom to contemplating thus, that they are all reflect The Four Noble Truths (first three) and can be overcome using the fourth noble truth. 

Just before Buddha reached parinibbhäna, he stated, at his absence Dhamma would be our teacher. Dhamma was Buddhas teacher too. Buddha also has said, the person who sees dhamma sees him. 

Being mindful about these things are called Satipattãna (wedging consciousness) meditation. (Which you call mindfulness here) 

Unlikely. You need a slightly longer commitment. Start with a three month plan with an excellent diet, good sleep, ample exercise. Visit a doctor about this if you haven't. Use vipassana meditation for the purpose it was intended for, not depression. Read the book "Spark" by Ratey, if you feel you can do something additional to what a doctor asks you, to get over depression. 

A positive perspective from a Buddhist gamer Jane McGonigal is a futurist, author and Buddhist who has written and lectured about the positive psychological effects of gaming Here is an excerpt from one of her lectures at a "Buddhist Geeks" conferance: Is Super Mario a Buddhist? Her tips for gaming: 

The external situation changed My thoughts, expectations and perceptions of the actions of other people changed 

What Internet-based Sangha groups are out there? For the Plum Village tradition there is a list on plumline.org Are there any other lists of online Sanghas you can share? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

I'm wondering what the Buddha said about spiritual friendship with the Buddha himself. From SN 45.2: 

I'm looking for more friends on the Buddhist path and would there for like to ask: Are there any social networking sites for Buddhists? Some features that I'm looking for: 

Sleep is mentioned as an impotent state of life, by Buddha. Nirvana requires the growth of Saptha Bojjang which will not take place while asleep. More details on Bojjanga is available here: Bojjanga Samyuttaya 

I have read that there are few reasons, when the child is in the mother's womb, it forgets the precious birth. One I recall clearly is shock. (Such as from a big jolt of loud noise) 

Kãyãnupassanã - is the observation of body of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Védanãnupassanã - is the observation of mind of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Cittãnupassanã - is the observation of experiences of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Dhammãnupassanã - is the observation of phenomina of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path 

It's the anniversary of Buddha delivering the Anapanasati Sutta (Sutra on the Mindfulness of Breathing), an important Sutra about meditation Reference: $URL$ (Sorry but I don't know enough to answer the other questions you asked, but I hope this answer and reference helps to some extent) 

Gathas can be helpful for increasing awareness of daily activities and breathing. They are short practice verses/poems read silently while we synchronize the reading with our breathing. For example: 

Background I've been practicing with metta phrases adapted from the Visuddhimagga, and i've seen the same thing in other places: Part of the meditations focuses on safety, which is perhaps not as relevant in our modern world where we are better protected from physical injury than in the ancient times (Example: "May i be safe and free from injury") Question I'd like to find an alternative to metta mediation phrases related to physical safety so that the phrases that i practice with are more relevant to me and others What i've found so far So far i've been thinking about maybe exchanging phrases about physical safety to mental/emotional safety, or a feeling/perception of safety. In our modern society many people are suffering from anxiety 

This way, one won't waste time thinking am I this, am I that. Where there is craving, anger, delusion, there is harm for oneself and others. Therefore, you can practice this just by deciding to be harmless. 

Permanence is something we use to describe something that is created but lasts for ever. Buddha clearly states in many places that things that are created are perished. Hence the definition of permanence is not usable in this context. Furthermore, assuming Nirvana is me, or mine, or my souls, is also a false view according to Buddha. 

You can see it arise (being created) You can see it transform within the thing it resides You can see it perish 

A king who follows the ways of Buddhism, by role, perfectly, is called a Sakvithi King. He generally rules by consulting wise men on all of his decisions. Such a king, himself, is a very righteous person in a Buddhist context. Such a king, is known to come to automatically possess a Sakvithi Gem which appears at his possession due to his worthiness (by character) to rule as a Sakvithi king. 

I could say more but I wanted to share what has worked in my own experience. I hope this will help you in some way Kind Regards, Tord 

Are there any other texts that bring up this subject? What have later Buddhist teachers said about this? References (from Sutras or otherwise) are welcome! Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

i've been trying to practice following the whole length of the in-breath and the whole length of the out-breath, and i can see that my attention often slips between the breaths. Any thoughts on what to focus on between two breaths? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

I read this question at the beginning of my day and have been thinking about it for some time. I've been in a similar situation myself, having many negative thoughts about people, being angry etc. In my case things changed when: 

With practice, you can be content by reflecting on the good karma of others rather than joy or happiness. It is very close, if not the same, to praise. For example, if someone you're showing compassion to is now able to feel happy, then you can think "Now this person has the opportunity to practice dhamma since his problems are lesser. This is good". Maybe you can go further and help the person practice dhamma even for a second. This way, you don't cultivate thoughts that nurture attachment, nor do you appreciate any wrong joy or happiness in the other person you helped (such as thanha). 

Before looking for your next teacher read Käläma sutta, the original translation, from the beginning to the end. In it Buddha takes a practical approach of explaining how one can pick a proper religion / approach to follow. Especially note how Buddha shows, before certainty, the five ways one uses to chose a practice / religion (Faith, Liking, Schools of Though, Contemplating, Views) 

Context Other types of media (books, films, etc) can also have an effect on us. Plato thought that books were an assault on the person reading because the reader were not able to argue against the thoughts presented there Mindfulness and concentration However a difference is that the immersion is often bigger in computer games, in other words it's more difficult to maintain mindfulness and easier to be fully concentrated on the game. We easily "get lost" in this other world Content of the game Assuming that we are concentrated on the game and have lost connection with our body and mindfulness in general, the content of the game becomes extra important. Do we think it will be beneficial for us? What states of mind does it help to create and maintain? Many games contain violence or competition Some games create empathy and understanding of others, for example: 

Are there any websites that have an English translation of the Chinese Buddhist canon, similar to what is available for the Pali canon at accesstoinsight.org and suttacentral.net? Grateful for help and with kind regards, Tord 

Buddhist generally show kindness. Living in solitude is encouraged to practice detachment and other Buddhist teachings. A need is a personal preference. A Buddhist may choose to entertain affection at the risk of losing his "sila" 

I hope you get well soon. May I suggest you start focusing on the times you feel well and better; use it to practice dhamma. Meanwhile, also gather material on Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha (such as their nobility). When you are facing undesirable symptoms, repeat the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha material you gathered. Do it quietly or aloud. Be sure that you know why this is useful to you. If not, it will sound like some useless or crazy activity. Get well soon! 

There are beings who are born as Maha Brahamas in the highest realms of existence. Since their life span is extremely long and they see people are born and die, having forgotten their own prior birth (due to their long life) some of them fall into the illusion they are like the rulers, creators or supreme of the world. On a certain occasion, Buddha has spoken to such beings having noticed their thoughts.