Simply put and ignoring a lot of variables, the answer to the question is that it doesn't matter which bike you ride. First of all, remember the law of conservation of energy: that matter and energy can neither be created nor destroyed. As applied to bikes, that means that you cannot put in "less" or "more" effort to do something like climb a hill. All you can do is adjust the leverage on the gears. Remember Archimede's hypothesis that with a long enough lever you could lift the Earth? By shifting into a lower gear, you are effectively extending out a lever arm that makes lifting the weight (i.e. climbing a hill) easier. But, it also means you have to push that lever much further to lift the weight (i.e. turn the pedals many more times to go the same distance). With a higher gear, you expend more energy upfront, but you get a faster return. Now, in terms of raw physical forces, the amount of energy it takes to move a given mass (you + the bike) a given distance doesn't change. When human bodies are taken into account, the picture is significantly complicated. That is the subject of research on athletic performance, about which there is plenty of literature. For cycling, usually it boils down to minimizing lactic acid buildup, which occurs during anaerobic (sprinting) exercise. That's grossly oversimplified, but the point is that it really depends on your body's fitness which mode of travel will be more efficient for you. However, as far as physics is concerned, it doesn't matter one bit. Some other notes: 

I have perfectly ordinary standard-pull brake levers on my bike. When the temperature gets below 20F or so, the left-hand one seizes up, not wanting to pull, and not braking well if I force it. Once the temperature warms up a bit, it's fine. Diagnosis? Cure? I'm pretty sure the actual brakes are fine, and the cable looks okay too. (If there's a duplicate, feel free to kill this one; I looked but didn't find an exact symptom match.) 

There's an outside chance it's frozen cables. Definitely not the likeliest problem, but if you run through everything else and it's still happening... 

You might be able to get away with a handlebar bag (Ortlieb has a waterproof one that claims to hold 7l) plus a messenger bag or light backpack, or the underseat stuff sack mentioned by Chris in AK. I agree with commenter Blam that leaving the shoes at work will drastically reduce the needed volume. A porteur rack in front might do the job too, and perhaps be a bit easier to remove than a rear rack. (Much depends on your brake setup; it's easy to get a front rack off my bike because its disc brakes don't get in the way.) Linus and Velo Orange have nice porteurs. 

This is a very old military bike, estimates say circa 1898, credited to a French officer and cycling advocate Captain Gerrard (although actually probably designed by someone else). It is indeed a folding bike, one of the first of its kind. Soldiers on bicycle were a relatively common thing prior to the first world war. Lots more information here, The BSA & Military Bicycle Museum ; and here Captain Gerard history 

Yes! Well, sorta. You can get an approximation using.... ~~trigonometry~~ In order to get an accurate reading, you'll need to divide the frame up into right triangles. We'll assume that the top tube is horizontal, parallel to the ground. This makes everything much easier because you automatically get right angles. However, many bikes will have sloping top tubes, which complicates the work. The first step therefore is to determine what slope the top tube has. For this particular example, the chart gives measurements that strongly suggest the top tube is horizontal, or even downward sloping, so this method is likely viable, but double check anyways. But anyways, assuming a horizontal top-tube parallel to the ground, here's your frame broken up into right angles and the proof for stack height: 

Based on your comment about where your pain centers, it sounds as though your median nerve is acting up. The likeliest causes of this for a cyclist are leaning too hard on the slight depression in the middle of the base of your palm, OR a hand position that twists your hands (inward/outward and/or up/down) relative to your wrists. Check for these next time you ride. Do see a doctor if you can (you may have to be firm about being referred to a physical therapist or sports-medicine expert). It's easiest to deal with this soon after it is noticed, certainly before it is debilitating. (Which it can be. My non-cycling-caused ulnar neuropathy had me holding my hand against myself so no one would so much as touch it, and it took six solid months of punishing therapeutic massage -- don't be fooled; physical-therapy massage is NOT gentle or enjoyable! -- to rid me of it.) Varying your hand positions may help avoid the problem in future; I would recommend ESPECIALLY avoiding the brake hoods, as they can hit RIGHT where you don't want them to. Your bicycle has drop bars, so you can experiment. I have found that my Velo Orange trekking bars somehow manage to avoid ever letting me rest my hand on that central depression, and allow at least two neutral hand-wrist positions, so changing bars might also help you. Why left hand rather than right? It may not be anything in your cycling, though you can certainly watch for something. Our bodies aren't perfectly symmetrical, and general stress on them isn't either. Good luck! I hope you resolve this quickly and as painlessly as possible. 

You won't be able to replace that freewheel with anything new you can buy on the market; your only options will be old stock or take-offs that you can find on eBay, etc. 

Crank compatibility is largely determined by the bottom bracket interface. As was mentioned, you have a square-taper style bottom bracket, which is not used on higher end cranks these days. You can always replace that bottom bracket with a new outboard-bearing design to fit a modern crank. So, essentially, you can make just about any crank work with your bike provided you're willing to replace the BB. The more important consideration is what to get and why. Think hard about what it is you most want to improve about the bike. The cranks, in my opinion, make little difference compared to, say, new wheels, or new shifters. 

Using a fixed gear develops muscles that you don't normally use on a geared bicycle. It'll take time for your body to get used to using those muscles and until then skidding will be difficult. First focus on hopping the rear wheel. When you're comfortable doing that, hop the wheel and then hold your legs in place on the landing to get a short skid. When you're used to that you can practice shifting your weight forward ("unweighting" the rear wheel) and dragging the skid out further. You must make sure your feet are in the correct position - they'll be relatively flat horizontal to the ground. Also be aware that skidding ruins tires quickly. I commute using a fixed gear and I scrupulously avoid skidding. I can stop as quickly or even faster by keeping my weight back on the rear wheel and using my leg muscles to slow down. That being said, being able to skid is a practical skill - a short "hockey" skid has saved my ass at least once from getting creamed by a car. 

Insofar possible, don't be the cyclist stereotype in someone's head. Or if you can't avoid it, find another cyclist who isn't, and introduce them. If you're the kind of Lycra Lad/Lass superhero type (right down to the spandex!) usually seen in bike advertising, this will be difficult, granted. A lot of us aren't like that, though, and that helps other people who aren't like that think "hey, if they bike, maybe I can too." Cyclists who wear street clothes (even dresses) while cycling, fat cyclists like me, middle-aged (me!) and older cyclists, cyclists who cycle home in triumph with the farmer's-market haul for the week in panniers or Wald baskets... the more visible we are, and the more we seem to like our cycling without becoming intrusive evangelists for it, the more we break down imagined barriers to cycling in others. Anecdotally, an unconventionally attractive, comfortable-looking bike can be a useful conversation piece. I got into a lot more conversations with curious strangers over my purple Electra Townie with its unusual curved outline than I do now with my somewhat more conventional-looking custom step-through. (Though it's lavender-colored, and that helps.)