The author then explains how priesthoods are sanctioned by governments as the two arms of power function together. Religious ideas are also used by governments to manipulate and control economy through production, distribution, and consumption. Religion and Culture: an Introduction to Anthropology of Religion, by Annemarie de Waal Malefijt, c.1968, pps. 305-28 (Religion and Government; Religion and Economic Organization). (See also, The Rise of The First Reich: Germany in the Tenth Century (Major Issues in History), c.1969.) by Boyd H. Hill But basing human laws on universal morals is futile without knowledge of God. Many people don't know enough about God to accept its existence, in the first place. And those who do (or pretend to) have widely diverse views and theories, motivations and intents, regarding the true nature of God. Even the most dedicated, pure-hearted saints can only strive for a little clearer understanding of it. So that is why all are immoral sinners (law-breakers). It is impossible to be law abiding enough to avoid that predicament. And genuine saintly types are always the first to admit the fact. So, to answer the question: No, it is not "moral to obey the law." It is only moral to obey God's law, because God is the origin of universal morality. 

Infinity isn't "playing with notation". Without infinity basic math does not work. It would be inconsistent. Without infinity there must be a "biggest number" and that breaks math. For example, for the set of positive integers (1, 2, 3, ...) it can be said that if then . But what if N is the biggest number? If M is greater than N, then M must be the biggest number. Contradiction! This might not seem like a big deal, but in mathematics a system which contains contradictions is false. Without infinity integer addition does not work. Similar problem with the infinitely small and division of the real numbers. If then because . But what if N is the smallest number? If M is less than N, then M must be the smallest number. Contradiction! Without infinity there are no irrational numbers, numbers which have infinite, non-repeating decimals. Pi is an irrational number. Without Pi, we can't work with circles. No infinity, no mathematics. (You can construct mathematical systems without infinity, but they're not nearly as useful.) 

I ate one potato chip from the bag. I ate another potato chip from the bag. There are still more potato chips in the bag. Therefore there are INFINITE POTATO CHIPS! 

It is only moral (in the sense of being correct or doing the 'right thing') to obey God's law, insofar as we can understand it. And in fact that is historically the presumed basis for practically every successful civilization's laws pertaining to government and economics. 

$URL$ ARISTOTLE'S ETHICS TABLE OF VIRTUES AND VICES (linked above) provides a handy reference guide for identifying virtue in various spheres of experience, including that of social conduct, which lists "friendliness" as the key ingredient for a virtuous relationship. However, limiting social behavior to "friendliness", while recommendable as a general rule, isn't quite enough for maintaining lasting friendships with people whose company you really enjoy. Or for general diplomacy, either. To form real friendships of virtue, or have virtuous friends -- you must practice impeccable virtue in all spheres of being, feeling and action. In other words, you must be virtuous. Being virtuous involves excluding vice from your life. It involves spending more time in quiet, solitary contemplation. 

If regarded as a true statement, the suggestion is that virtue and vice are mutually exclusive, leading to the conclusion that virtuous relationships are free of vice. 

The post presumes that infinity is some abstract concept that is a result of mathematicians faffing about. That it doesn't have any application to the real world. That's not true. In fact, without infinity math does not work. 

Sure you can! Infinitely! What happens when you mix red and green? Yellow! What if you mix yellow and red? And the result of that mixing with red again? And that with red again? And again? And again? And again? Each will be a slightly different color. This is similar to what you get when you try to find the smallest fraction. What's halfway between 1 and 2? 1.5. Between 1 and 1.5? 1.25. Between 1 and 1.25? 1.125. And so on. The difference is paint is made up of discrete molecules and eventually you'll have nothing but red left. Numbers don't have an end and you can just keep on dividing. Not only is there an infinity of numbers, there are infinities between every number! The infinite set of positive integers is countably infinite meaning you can potentially count them without leaving any gaps. The infinity between the real numbers is uncountably infinite meaning you can never list them all out (I realize this is not the formal definition). Every time you try to count them you create more gaps to fill in. This is the infinity of the very small. 

See also: Fiction In conclusion, as most philosophers are aware of the fact that truthfulness is also considered a virtue (along with kindness), so it should be apparent to most of you that a pretense of kindness is not true kindness, and therefore is not moral. 

I see it as someone who has been a casual student of Zen Buddhism for most of my life, hence: The way to be enlightened / to wake up from a zombie-like state -- is to pay attention to your own situation and not allow yourself to become distracted / to become obsessed with unimportant things. Enlightenment isn't something that can be learned by interviewing / questioning / following -- an enlightened master. The only way to enlighten yourself, is to be enlightened -- to be your own master. You have to take the helm of your own ship. Had the disciple been his own master rather than submissively following another man around, he wouldn't have allowed himself to become so easily tangled up in a simple gate. 

Ironically, there are basically at least two diametrically opposed ways one may view the problem of immigration: 

Let's put these two together. The first seems assert that every concept which cannot be physically represented is false. The second builds on that by saying if you don't actually count to infinity, infinity is false. Ok, let's imagine a world without infinity. That means there has to be a biggest number. What's the biggest number? Here, I'll pick one. 1,000,000,000,000. There. I have just asserted the biggest number. What happens if I add one to it? 1,000,000,000,001. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,002. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,003. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,004. A new biggest number! For any biggest number you can imagine, you can add one to it to get a bigger number. I don't actually need to keep at this task, it's enough to prove the potential of their existence were you to keep at the task. Same as I can add 10 + 20 without actually moving little groups of objects around. This is the great utility of mathematics, I don't need to move physical things around to do math. Concepts which don't have a physical form are not false, they just don't have physical form. If I have an idea to build a house slightly different from all other houses it's not a false concept on a house. We know houses work. This particular house just doesn't have physical form yet. But wait! It gets worse! (Or better depending on how you look at it)