According to the Royal Institution website, Prince Albert and the young princes attended a lecture by Faraday in 1855 on "The distinctive properties of the common metals". As shown in this picture. Which is further supported by a book on Faraday's correspondence that states 

A classic example would be the pre-D-day deception aimed at making the German's believe that the actual invasion was to take place at the Pas de Calais. An entire fake army, the First United States Army Group was invented as part of Operation Fortitude South. To help sell the effect and convince the Germans that this was the main invasion force, a large deception operation created fake equipment, such as camps, dummy landing craft and airstrips, to look like a real army was being prepared. This was supplemented with wireless traffic between these fake units to simulate real operational communications. In addition notable senior staff, such as General Patton, were (supposedly) attached to the army to give it some credence. 

Source: The Command of the Ocean, N.A.M Rodger (Allen Lane, 2004) derived from data by Prof. J.Glete However, these raw figures should be treated with some caution when trying to establish the true strengths of the various national fleets. The following points should be considered; 1) The figures represent the notional numbers of ships available to each navy. In addition to the ships in active service, the figures also include ships in harbour service (e.g. guardships, hospital ships, etc), in 'ordinary' (what we'd now call 'mothballed') and even ships that were being built/re-built. So the number of ships immediately available for active service with each navy is probably between 50-75% of the given figures. 2) The figures also give no indication to the make up of each fleet in terms of age and quality. Older ships would generally be slower, harder to maintain and lacking in some of the technical innovations compared to their newer bretheren. They would also, generally, be smaller and have a weaker armament than their more modern counterparts. Consequently, a large fleet made up of older ships would be at a disadvantage to a smaller but more modern fleet. 3) While these tables give us the notional fleet strengths (and, by extension, an idea of the actual serviceable fleet strengths), in terms of vessels, they don't show how many ships were actually at sea in any given year or how many ships the respective navies were actually capable of manning and putting to sea. With regard to the last point, it was common for standing navies to be drastically reduced in manpower during times of peace. When a new war started, it often took time to re-employ these experienced sailors (and to train new replacements). So, for example, where the raw numbers show a moderate increase in the number of British cruisers (from 130 to 160) between 1790 and 1795, the actual increase in the number of those ships at sea would have been far greater as the Navy shifted from a peacetime to wartime footing. In terms of losses, the following data was taken from the detailed lists in the "History of the Royal Navy" by William Laird Clowes, vol 4 and vol 5, covering 1793-1815; 

To summarize, the Northern states had already been disregarding explicit Constitutional obligations and federal laws, justifying their nullification of federal law by saying that -- as states -- they could refuse to enforce immoral laws. Although such "states' rights" actions on behalf of Northern states were repeatedly overturned by federal laws and court cases (perhaps most recently in Ableman v. Booth (1859)), the Northern states kept ignoring the Constitution in this case, which the Southern states then used as justification for secession. The failure of enforcement for the Fugitive Slave Clause is mentioned repeatedly in many secession documents among the Southern states. This directly answers the part of the question about why some states felt the Fugitive Slave Acts weren't enough, since often they were explicitly disregarded despite the instructions of the federal government. In effect, South Carolina (and other states) actually cite the failure of the federal government to deny states' rights in this case as proof that all states were no longer adhering to the Constitution, thereby justifying a choice to secede. 

I think Adams perhaps goes a little far here, but he makes an important distinction. The "second wave" of secessions were made by states which had preferred to stay within the federal government and to continue dialogue on the issue, but in 1861 there still was a view of "patriotism" toward individual states. (Adams goes on to discuss how Lee's patriotism was clearly forced into a dilemma between his state and his country.) When Lincoln proposed to invade, he was threatening the rights of those states, and thus Virginia and several other states voted to leave the Union. (Virginia does not mention slavery at all in its declaration of secession other than noting the the Federal government had "perverted" its powers "to the oppression of the Southern slave-holding states"; Arkansas explicitly mentioned Lincoln's marshalling of troops to wage war against the seceded states as a cause.) I don't want to give the wrong impression: slavery was still the overarching reason why this whole situation happened, and the whole reason Virginia was even debating secession was slavery. But the immediate actions that pushed the border states into secession were arguably over concern for states' rights under the threat of war and specifically federal invasion. 

I have the following figures to hand for weight of shot and charge, for a range of weapons that may have been used by the Prussian Artillery during the Napoleonic Wars. 

While it's not definitive proof that the term was widely adopted, there appear to be a number of publications released prior to the French Revolution that reference the War of Independence as a "Revolution". For example, a pamphlet called "The divine goodness displayed in the American Revolution" was published in New York in 1784. A French book translated into English and published in London in 1781 was called "The Revolution of America". 

Again, it's clear that these early laws were intended to apply in times of peace (truce) rather than, as later became the case, in times of war. The process of granting a letter of marque and reprisal also allowed a period for the offending party to make voluntary recompense before a letter of marque and reprisal would be granted. 

Because this is linked to mythology, most of the references to them seem to be heavily invested in woo. However, it does seem that in this case, the snakes were real grass snakes (as the Wikipedia article notes, žaltys is literally 'grass snake' in Lithuanian) kept in the believer's homes. 

Adams goes on to describe the very day the news from Virginia's first vote was announced (February 4th), and when they voted to stay: 

JimZipCode wrote a long and passionate answer which tries to debunk many of the other answers here and claim that the law was settled before the Confederate states seceded. He brings up some interesting points that should be debated. However, he also clearly goes too far. His choice of quotations is selective: I could just as easily come up with dozens of quotations from learned authorities from both the North and South before the Civil War that argue both sides of whether secession was legal or not. The real meat of his answer, though, concerns whether stare decisis would already be in effect due to previous court rulings, thus making Texas v. White a restatement of previously settled law, rather than a novel interpretation. He cites three previous Supreme Court cases as evidence. However, if there were indeed clear precedent, that matter should be made clear in the rulings of Texas v. White. When we examine that ruling thoroughly, there is no mention of any of the precedents cited in JimZipCode's answer, nor is there any clear reference to his notion of "Compact Theory." To the contrary, the majority ruling written by the Chief Justice Salmon Chase (a former member of Lincoln's cabinet) clearly implies that there had been previous legal disagreement about this question: 

The tradition of having ships inherit names from earlier vessels (which, as noted above, might also donate materials in varying degrees) can make it difficult to establish the true service life of a particular ship. This can be further confused when ships change names and/or owners (captured warships were often repaired and put into service with their new owners and in some cases these were recaptured or captured by a third party). Therefore, we really only have accurate records from the start of the Age of Sail when the European sevices became standing navies and acquired the corresponding bureaucracies. Even with this improved record keeping, it can be difficult to determine exactly which ship is being referred to. Wooden warships were expensive to run. They required much larger crews than merchant ships of the same size and keeping a ship at sea in all weathers generated a lot of on-going maintenance. As a consequence, it was normal practice to mothball the bulk of a navy's warships in times of peace. This meant they were kept in a sheltered anchorage or harbor and typically had the masts & rigging removed (and often the guns as well) to reduce the strain on the ship's hull. This reduced peacetime costs and had the additional effect of increasing the ship's potential service life by reducing wear & tear. Looking at how a famous vessel (mentioned in another answer), HMS Victory, has survived for 250 years, it's mainly because she wasn't at sea for most of her life - along with a spot of good fortune and national sentiment. The Victory was launched in 1765 but remained 'in ordinary' (i.e. mothballed as a reserve) before being fitted out and commissioned for active service in 1778. After 4 years of service in the Channel, she was paid off and had a 'middling repair', which took six months. She then spent 4 years in reserve but still required a 'large repair' before being commissioned again in 1789. She was in Channel service until 1792 when she transferred to the Meditterranean where she remained until 1797 (with the exception of 3 months being repaired at Portsmouth in 1795) including taking part in the Battle of Cape St. Vincent. In October 1797, she returned to Portsmouth where she was surveyed and found defective. She was therefore paid off and refitted as a hospital ship (and the ship's name was struck from the Navy List). That could have been the end of the story for this HMS Victory. However, the loss of a newer First Rate, Queen Charlotte, to a fire meant that the Navy required a replacement. Rather than building a new vessel from scratch, they chose to rebuild the Victory. This was a major reconstruction that took three years (and cost more than her original construction). When the reconstruction was complete, she was recommissioned and served as Nelson's flagship in the Mediterranean from 1803 to 1805. She was heavily damaged at Trafalgar and had temporary repairs at Gibraltar before returning to Chatham to be paid off in 1806. She then remained in ordinary until 1808 when she refitted as a 2nd Rate (which reduced the number and type of guns she carried). She was put back into service in December 1808 before being finally retired from active (sea) service in November 1812 (including a period as a troop ship). She then remained in ordinary until 1823, including another major reconstruction between 1814 and 1816 (this again cost more than her original construction and incorporated the construction of a new round bow). From 1823 until 1922, she had various harbour roles which included being a guard ship, a Port Admiral's flagship and a tender to HMS Duke of Wellington as well as periods in ordinary. In 1922 she was dry-docked where she's remained ever since. However, being in dry dock has not meant an end to the reconstruction and repairs. The desire to re-create the 1805 version of ship meant that the round bow (introduced in 1816) had to be replaced with one in the original beakhead style and many of the later fittings had to be replaced with period replicas. From 1955, when a large scale repair was started, the ship has been in an almost continuous process of repairs. 

Note that he clearly states that "we must determine it" according to "our best judgment," not that it was a matter of previously determined or settled law. Furthermore, when we examine the dissents in the 5-3 ruling, they actually cite another case where John Marshall speaks directly to the definition of a state. Justice Grier writes: 

The other two dissenting justices (Noah Swayne and Samuel Miller) concur with Grier on this interpretation that Texas is NOT a state according to current law (though they agree with Chase regarding other issues in the case). (By the way, Grier's opinion here was also implicitly endorsed by Congress and actually by many historical sources today which cite the dates of apparent "readmission" to the Union as happening between 1868 and 1870. These were the dates that representatives from these states were readmitted to Congress, and there were generally conditions placed on those states before the representatives were allowed to rejoin Congress. If secession were truly "unconstitutional" according to Chase's argument which effectively said secession never happened, then Congress was acting unconstitutionally by refusing to seat representatives -- as required by the Constitution -- until they capitulated. It also implies that the various plans to set conditions on "readmission to the Union" were legally nonsensical. The more consistent interpretation is that the states actually had seceded, at least according to pragmatic politics as Grier argues, as well as according to Constitutional requirements stated for what current states were entitled to. This doesn't argue whether secession was "legal" or "illegal," only that it had in fact happened, which implies that it wasn't thought unconstitutional on its face.) TO SUMMARIZE: The cases cited in JimZipCode's answer were not actually mentioned or even hinted at in Texas v. White, so they clearly were not considered as settled precedent to which stare decisis must apply. The majority opinion itself implies that it is making a determination according to present judgment, and 3 of the 8 justices rejected that interpretation, instead citing a different precedent of John Marshall's, as well as current law in Congress, to claim that Texas was not a state. Obviously dissents are not law. But here they are strong evidence that the matter wasn't even clearly settled among those on the Court in 1869, and the dissent actually lines up well with how the Executive and Legislative branches had been treating the states (i.e., as though they had actually seceded). And the majority opinion -- written by a member of Lincoln's cabinet who presumably had been aware of earlier legality of secession debates -- acknowledges that it's still an openly debated issue among many learned people which must be settled in this ruling. 

*Some details omitted for clarity (Table I, pg.31) It would therefore appear that the aristocracy and landed gentry were greatly outnumbered by the lower classes in terms of representation as Naval officers at the end of the 18th Century. However, social rank did seem to reflect itself in terms of the final military rank achieved. 

By the 1800s, the trade with India wasn't particularly profitable. In fact, control of India wasn't particularly profitable (for the Empire as a whole, as you note, local 'nabobs' made themselves wealthy). The costs of running a large standing army, and a small local navy, easily balanced out any profit from trade and revenue out of India. 

As an additional bit of background information, analysis of the diets of these sailors gives an average daily intake of nearly 5,000 calories (compared to the modern recommended intake of about 2,500 calories). So they were consuming similar amounts of energy to a professional athlete. This isn't too surprising considering that everything on a sailing ship was man-powered. 

As noted in the question, it was the subsequent English Kings who recognised the power of the longbow; 

Yes, it is possible for a British peer to have the same surname and title. Although it depends on what period you're considering. In more recent times, not every title is based on giving title to land and, therefore, the title isn't tied to an actual place (and not every title, therefore, has 'of' in it). For example, the first Baron Kenyon was Lloyd Kenyon. One of his contemporaries was John Campbell, 1st Baron Campbell. Another was the naval commander Sir George Brydges Rodney, 1st Baronet who became the 1st Baron Rodney. 

Grier goes on to apply Justice Marshall's definition of "state" to the situation in Texas. From this, he concludes that Texas is not (and was not, during the Civil War) a "state," according to laws in force by Congress. He concludes: 

However, I'd also like to address the issue of "states' rights" brought up in another answer. I actually agree that this issue played a strong role in secession, though not in the manner that many Southern apologists claim. It wasn't just that the Southern states decided to assert their individual rights of self-determination. They also justified this on the basis of previous actions by Northern states, specifically regarding the Fugitive Slave Clause of the Constitution, and the failure of the Northern states to adhere to it and its enacting laws from 1793 and 1850. Again, from the South Carolina declaration: 

The Constitution contains a set of enumerated powers for the federal government. Originally, Congress had no power to pass laws that could not derive directly from one of these powers; any other government powers were granted to the states (as reinforced by the Tenth Amendment). However, the exact limitations on these powers were disputed almost immediately as new legal situations arose. The 19th century saw a number of these enumerated powers become slightly expanded or curtailed in various Supreme Court cases. Nevertheless, the presumption in the early 20th century was that Congress could not create laws which went beyond those original enumerated powers. The Supreme Court frequently struck down federal laws that could not be related back to the Constitution (perhaps most famously in the string of court decisions that repeatedly invalidated much of Franklin Roosevelt's "New Deal" in the early to mid 1930s on the grounds that the federal government did not have those powers). While the Supreme Court jurisprudence of this era tended to focus on economic freedom issues (the so-called Lochner era), any legislation that took power away from states or individuals could be suspect if it was not in the enumerated powers. The regulation of "interstate commerce" is contained in the enumerated powers, but it was still largely interpreted as an interstate issue, i.e., the federal government could legally become involved mostly when merchandise or businesses went across state lines. Thus, early attempts at drug restriction by the federal government tended to focus on taxes for items going across state lines, rather than outright bans or detailed regulation. An interesting case study here is the Harrison Narcotics Tax Act, which was passed in 1914 to regulate opiates and cocaine. The act did not make such drugs illegal, but merely required special registrations and taxes on those who manufactured or distributed them. The tax on physicians and medical use was low, but for non-medical use, the tax was so exorbitant as to effectively prohibit distribution or sale of the drugs. This second tax was challenged in court, where it was claimed that the act was not a tax -- which would be a Constitutionally enumerated power -- but rather a federal infringement of the police power of the states, which of course was its intent if not its literal mechanism. Nevertheless the Supreme Court upheld the act in United States v. Doremus (1919) while reaffirming that the federal government could not usurp the police power of the states. But the Supreme Court did later object to use of the act to arrest doctors who chose to prescribe these drugs without sufficient medical justification, e.g., just to drug addicts. As Justice McReynolds wrote in Linder v. United States (1925), "Obviously direct control of medical practice in the states is beyond the power of the federal government." This shows the kind of complex debates about precisely how far federal power could go, which a Constitutional amendment would avoid at this time. Another option was for the federal government to pass uniform acts, such as the Uniform State Narcotic Drug Act of 1934. A "uniform act" is a collaborative measure intended to be adopted by individual states to ensure a uniform process governing a particular issue. However, states cannot be forced to adopt such regulations; initially only 9 states adopted this early narcotics act, and a public relations campaign was launched by FDR and others to convince the public of "reefer madness" and thus adopt narcotics legislation. Since alcohol regulation is not specified in the Constitution, Congress had no explicit power to regulate it. And, as affirmed for example by the Supreme Court in the Matter of Heff (1905): 

There's very little concrete evidence about how command and control of the Spanish Armada worked, or indeed, how naval tactical control was exerted during that period, which pre-dates what we now call the Age of Sail. Most of the documentation that has survived from the Armada is correspondence that is essentially at the political level, i.e. between the King and his commanders. So we know at a strategic level who said what and when but don't know in any detail how, and if, these orders were transmitted down the chain of command. We do know that the Duke of Medina Sidonia wasn't a naval man whereas his second in command, Juan Martínez de Recalde was an experienced Admiral in the Spanish Navy. This lead to some friction between the two because the Duke insisted on sticking to King Philip's plan of attack, while de Recalde would have prefered to have dealt with the English fleet (especially when the opportunity arose to attack them in the Solent). At the time of the Armada, the standing national navies of the European states were quite small and there were few professional naval officers. As can be seen from the make up of both the Spanish and English fleets, the actual number of warships on both sides is dwarfed by the number of armed merchants and transport ships. This greatly limited the tactical options available to both sides. Even relatively simple fleet maneuvers require coordination and practice to pass off without incident. Trying anything too complicated when most of your ships have little or no fleet experience is risking collisions or worse. So what methods were available to pass orders?