To succeed on the path, you need both study and practice in equal amounts. Sometimes you will need more of the one than the other, but in general try to have a balance of Study and Practice, they are the two basic ingredients. Even after attainment of samadhi and initial Awakening, there are advanced sutras and texts designed for such Awakened people to study so that they can reach the next levels. Below is a relevant excerpt from the first chapter of "How to Measure and Deepen Your Spiritual Realization", a book that completely discusses Buddhism's various theoretical models as well as other religions... emphasizing the importance of not mistakening theory/good learning for practice and Attainment" and especially not criticizing others who do not know what you know because you haven't attained it for yourself anyway. 

All of the aggregates are impermanent including Form, Sensation, Conception, Volition ("mental formations"), and Consciousness (and all its levels, including the storehouse). To understand the aggregates on a profound, modern level, I highly recommend the "Chapter 5: The Five Aggregates Schema and the Various Levels of Consciousness" from "How to Measure and Deepen Your Spiritual Realization" by Master Huai-Chin Nan and William Bodri. I understand that some Buddhists would argue against the following explanation because they have never seen it before but I am providing it nonetheless as a Buddhist idea because it is a theory that tightly relates the 12 nidanas to the 5 aggregates with some Tibetan Buddhist elements. I would re-recommend the previously mentioned book by Master Nan and his student to master the concepts first and also to understand certain depths that I do not go into for this answer because I do not want to write an essay right now but want to answer your question. Also, when I mention skandha... skandha = aggregate. They mean the same thing. And now here is the answer to your question about what happens when you die. Read it like a story. It's undoubtably the most important story to understand and sorry if I'm light on the details, there are many many interdisciplinary connections to make. 

Beautiful answer by Robin111. But I believe the question is why isn't Buddha represented as emaciated? Specifically why do people have the fat Laughing Buddha statue everywhere especially at the front of business buildings? Mainly this is because it represents wealth, commerce, and overspending, something businesses like. Most when asked say "it's luck." These people feel it attracts abundance. Other reasons this trend has remained so is because: 

No because anatta doesn't conclusively say that we do not exist. We do not exist nor do we not not-exist. (concept from Diamond Sutra) 

Before you can even practice vipassana--which is just present-minded awareness--one must have strong mastery of the jhanas, at least the 1st jhana. Only then will you automatically go through the 10 Stages of Insight, especially by doing a retreat! Thus in answer to your question, the most methodical sure way is to take yourself to a powerful concentration state and then just be aware of the present moment especially as the Maha Satipatthana Sutta instructs. Then, one will automatically go through the 10 Stages of Insight (so long asone doesn't cling to any of them) and attain Fruition/Emptiness for the first time. Thus, the question becomes... how to attain jhana methodically as possible? And how does anapanasati relate to samatha and vipassana? The answer to the last question is that anapanasatti integrates both practices exactly in the samatha->vipassana sequence mentioned! Also, in answer to your question if joining a Sangha is necessary, no it is not, although it is certainly conducive to it. The most important is your own jhana power prior to retreat. If you do a retreat without jhana (basically the ability to concentrate with ease and happiness) then you'll get nowhere. So practice 2 hours each day and night until you can do that much at least before doing an all-day retreat! 

A Buddha/Bodhisattva is one who has Awakened and is free from some basic laws of the universe such as karma, reincarnation, the fetters, and various other afflictions. In the sutras, such as the Surangama Sutra and Diamond Sutra, such Ones are also able to manifest many other effects -- well beyond beyond cause-and-effect, able to shape shift, squeeze thousands of beings into a small house, etc. This is understandable considering that a One is already beyond cause-and-effect and thus would be able to manifest such things skillfully and according to needs. So my question is... how is this possible? According to my teacher, it is the transformation of the aggregates including form and volition... it is still within realm of cause-and-effect... a Buddha is not free from all laws of cause-and-effect. I'd like to know what others know about this rather unimportant topic. 

All of the above was less than a minute! *Making anything a meditation becomes a energy-creating, focused journey!* One can definitely build up one's mindfulness power through daily activity while actually increasing the activity's focus level too! If there is some interference it is outweighed by the level of calmness, clarity, and focus brought to the project itself. It's a win-win. So a few points to making it not impede efficiency itself: 

Haha. "attacks" Nice choice of word but I think it's better to be called creative interruption... but even that isn't correct because sometimes following through with that interruption will allow you to get to the next leve in project _____ which helps in another different project, project ______ and in the end will somehow give you great peace of mind in your meditation (because you have your life better handled and less background worries). Cultivating the jhanas, the foundation for developing wisdom (which in itself is the means of attaining Bodhi), requires stillness. Stillness requires... stillness. Creative interruptions, however wonderful and useful for our lives, is not directly helpful to the Training (2nd and 3rd training). Nonetheless, the nature of stillness is that the more you achieve it, the more creative and integral you will become so it should get easier over time even though you can get some freaky creative outbursts. This is because yin is the foundation for great things to happen. This is a classic Taoist principle of extreme yin attracting extreme yang. Nonetheless, it is essential to let the waves on the water calm down so you can master yin (samadhi/jhana). You must manage these creative outbursts but also use them like a car directs the internal combustion to getting it to move forward... I oftentimes find that there is IMMENSE value in the insights, remembrances and recollections that happen during meditation. I have a to-do list widget on my home screen which is frequently used for exactly that purpose. I try to never get up and do the activity (write a script, do something, modify something, try something out, etc.) because that is breaking the first thing I was talking about, the stillness. In order to master anapana, or whatever method you do, you have to stick to it! So my recommendation to you would be that you should write down a good keyword(s) for whatever idea you had so you can come back to it when your session is complete. I reccommend using your phone simply because it is fastest (and thus least interruptive) method and can be done in the dark. Feel free to design automation scripts to help you in this (for example, a meditation timer that after started automatically pulls up a notepad for your collecting of any creative interruptions) This should not take more than 10 seconds. Learn to differentiate between worthless insights/fantasies/wanderings and ACTUALLY practical creative outbursts. The more you learn to differentiate between them... the more GOOD creative interruptions you will have. Talk about mining the good stuff from meditation, in an indirect way, huh? Then go right back to meditation, doing a mini 5 second adjustment and re-declaration of your intention before you gather your 5 Faculties again for the Training. 

Dharmakaya is not impermanent. Where did you get such an idea? Buddha nature/dharmakaya is not impermanent. Dharmakaya = the idea of Self, Buddhanature, Allah, Brahmin, Substrate... it's the thing that is beyond existence and nonexistence... it's beyond separation and non-separation. It's the thing that stands beyond time and exists without existing. "Past" is a way of categorizing time. It is just as much a figment of imagination as "present" and "future". The only thing that exists is the "now" but even that is speaking relative to a "past" and "future" which do not truly exist except in your imagination. Nonetheless, the imagination is an important tool for discussion, desire, economics, etc. It is the foundation of our worldy and supernatural discoveries. Anyway, to give you a clear answer to your unclear question, the past does not have buddha nature since it is completely imaginary, dharmakaya is permanent (it is all-that-is), and your logic does not follow about enlightened people. On the other hand, it is true, much is left behind through the bodhisattva path including the fetters which bespeaks of the fear you have of "nothing being left". 

The Buddhist goal is to escape self-imposed suffering and ultimately to escape forced birth-and-death through the process of the Three Trainings. This is related to Alex Wissner's theory of intelligence in the same manner: restrict/choose present actions in order to maximize future options. When one attains bodhi one is able to be free from forced rebirth. Thus, once Awakened, the bodhisattva/Buddha then exercises their compassionate power and constantly uses their nirmanakaya (aspect of Trikaya) to help beings throughout the infinite galaxies as described by Buddha (and Taoists). Thus, by Alex Wissner's definition of intelligence, Buddhist training is the most intelligent behavior any being can possibly take, especially those of us that are trapped in self-imposed suffering (dukkha) and the process of forced birth-and-death. 

The mind-state one is having is most important. A happy, joyful state, filled with focus and energy is not only positive but also similar to samadhi. This mind-state is free from the Three Poisons and the Six Root Afflictions is good. On the other hand, some games that have a competitive nature, if taken too seriously, can generate the Three Poisons and afflictions, affecting the various levels of mind, attitude, and neurology. On the other hand, one can utilize the non-mortal nature of video games to practice detachment from such things... essentially practicing to be a bodhisattva of the world! It is hard to be detached like this for longer, more immersive video games, but it can be a harmless practice watching yourself compete and the emotions and afflictions arise and fall within oneself. 

Actually, Nirvana... is something beyond emptiness. Emptiness (sunyata) is the stopping phase of cultivation. Nirvana is the "seeing" phase, where you transcend even that stopping, which is a type of total non-existence, still dual. Nirvana is beyond all dualism. It is not existence nor non-existence. Heart sutra is reccommended. Nirvana is a synonym for the enlightened state. The Enlightened state is beyond non-existence ("emptiness") and existence (experiencing the skandhas) and is capable of existing and exercising its function anywhere, no matter what, be it in hell or heaven. N onetheless, we must experience both sides fully, existence and non-existence before we can enter into the non-dual, indescribeable, open awareness of Nirvana. Note: despite this, emptiness is still the first step, especially in this age where everyone is obsessed with materialism and existence. Finding emptiness IS the first step. You must make your mind empty and clear and must discover and BECOME emptiness, particularly through attainment of samadhi before you can truly succeed on the vipassana path. Of course, others have differing perspectives saying that "dry insight" is enough to get to Nirvana but I don't think it's that easy or even reliable as a path. Calm your mind (emptiness, samatha practice, focus your mind on clarity), and see (Nirvana, vipassana, let go of everything and just witness). 

Well-researched question but I find it silly nonetheless. Something like concentration attainment is the cause of everything holistic we have today: acupuncture, chi gong, kundalini activation, etc. "Jhana practice" = centering oneself on blissful state 

There are a lot of scientifically proven benefits of fasting for short periods of time. Within the earliest form of Buddhism, fasting after noon is recommended way of life. This means they would get done with the "taking care of the body" part of their life out of the way early and can devote the most time to what is truly important: spiritual cultivation. This is a fast of 16 hours. On the other hand, very long fasts that are weeks long is not the Middle Way and Buddha recommended against that. Eating 3 meals a day is actually falling further on the opposite spectrum: eating too much, so be wary. 

The way I decide these things is thus: We are all One being. We are all One God, sharing the same Buddahood. There is no real individuality. Let us leave behind the world with as much good as possible. Sometimes, the way a Bodhisattva works in the world is a mystery, especially because those of us without jhana and prajna powers cannot penetrate into the ultimate causes and conditions. They frequently do not stick to rules and conventions. But always, a Bodhisattva acts doing what is best for everyone. Similarly, even though we do not have the omniscience of a Bodhisattva, we can act intuitively within our own understanding that a tapeworm is a lower being and you can do much more good for the universe than a tapeworm. Think of the cyclic reincarnation and realize that there is not much good that it is doing in the world anyway.. In this way, a being's worth is measured by its ultimate service in helping Us achieve the Goal: for all to realize Complete Buddahood, complete Trikaya. Go ahead and kill the tapeworm, but do not raise any seeds or poisons while doing so. Do it with love and generosity for the highest good of all. Of course, a measure of moderation is needed and when one experiences doubt one should not do such a "bad action." (Doubt is one of the 6 root afflictions and a good indicator of a wrong pathway, just like the other afflictions, when they arise are also a useful indicator.) 

Why do we not remember our past lives? It is a protective mechanism, kind of like how when you enter REM sleep your body paralyzes you to avoid hurting yourself. Similarly most of our chakras are in a semi-open, unpurified state because the full power of it can be harmful to ourselves and others. Many spiritual powers remain dormant. (I would not rely on the explanations of famous modern teachers because most of them are just intellectuals and have not put the prerequisite solitude and focus to attain realization... and sometimes they have to make publicly acceptable comments to avoid attack.) If it is possible to recollect one's previous lives by deeply concentrated thought? Yes. By entering the 1st jhana, one can even recall one's past lives. The below passage from MN 36 indicates Buddha went to 4th jhana before doing so, recalling many more. I would refer to the book Mind Experiment by Bavo Lievens for references on Buddhist texts, as well as beautiful Buddhist cosmology and how to go about doing this. Go to page 80. Here is an excerpt from MN 36: 

Dharmakaya is equivalent to Buddha Nature, God, Allah, Brahmin, etc.... the Ultimate source that is beyond existence and non-existence. The "Creator" (though it neither creates nor is created, it begets nor is begotten). Emptiness is similar to it but it is not it. Because emptiness is similar to it we cultivate peaceful mind until we achieve samadhi. This is similar and brings us "closer" to enlightenment but nonetheless Emptiness is still falsity. When we can initially let go of the peace of emptiness and leap beyond all Three Realms... then we are bodhisattvas... on the road to Buddhahood and learning to clear out the even more deep-seated attachments. So basically the order of cultivation is: 

keep positive coversation. LEAD the interaction. Call out the person and END the interaction if goes down a negative route. don't fight fire with fire If after calling them out, they still berate you negatively, then look them right in the eye and tell them that you'd rather only talk to them if necessary until they learn to be more accepting and positive, not break people down etc. overall, be self-reliant on your own thoughts. You be your own judge. Learn to develop this. 

It is easy enough to see the power of developing mindfulness through walking meditation, eating meditation, and any repeated task including cooking. How does one develop mindfulness capacities when doing new things involving struggle like studying, reading, problem solving or programming without hindering one's progress in such a task? 

Like Orion says they are mind states as well. This is why if someone is acting like X most of the time, which is a behavior of Y realm, then they will most likely go to that realm. So, yes, according to Hinduism and many other traditions and cultures, this is not your only incarnation, but just one of countless from the past and many more in the future. The magnificence of Buddhism is that it is beyond all these realms because every single one of them is temporary (on different time scales). No matter how enjoyable and how pleasureable, when one's karma for that realm runs out, one will drop or rise according to the new karma generated. The goal of Buddhism is to transcend them all and become someone who doesn't bob up and down uncontrollably according to one's whims and karmas, forced into this and that rebirth. This means to become a bodhisattva: someone who has mastered the incarnation process including the creation of karma and for the sake of all beings incarnates in order to teach and guide beings. Although this effect is quite grand, the cause for this effect ("ending birth-and-death") is quite simple: follow the Four Noble Truths on its mundane and super-mundane levels.