Causal dependence. Example: a seed and a sprout. Dependence in relation to parts. Example: short and long. Dependence on name. The meaning of which I explained in relation to John. 

This is because we posit that the conception of self of person is based on the conception of self of phenomena, and that it is not possibly to eradicate one [ignorance] without eradicating the other. 

That it is clear refers to the fact that it has the ability to take the aspect of its object. An eye-consciousness seeing blue takes the [subjective] aspect of blue. That it is knowing refers to the fact that it apprehends its object. This point is quiet complicated and there is much debate. By nature a mind experiences its object. I hope this answer helps you, as you defined your "Observer" as an experience. 

In Mahayana, intelligence and wisdom are not used interchangeably. Wisdom has various meanings, depending on the context. The issue is that different Tibetan words are translated 'wisdom.' I assume these Tibetan words correspond to different Sanskrit words as well. In the Abhidharma, it says: 

Suffering is result of ignorance of karmic of skandhas, 5 aggrrgates in creation of ego. Ego has tendancy to cling and create 'self', 'I', or 'me' based on in dependent relation with 5 skandhas. 

You are talking about the nature of reality right now If you really want to know, You want to experience not reading or knowing. Readimg and knowing can be a danger without proper guidance. They can be a hinderance to not being ignorant. 

Your occupation doesn't determine. But there are occupations that could fall you victim of bad karma. You can compensate it through practicimg Dharma and helping others. 

30 is young and baby. You need to meditate. How? Under the proper guidance with rIght method. You don't need to abandon your life or your girl friend. If you have enough money for 1 to 3 months. Go to South Korea temple (I know Kwan um internattional zen ceter or Musang sa offers some sorts program) or somewhere in USA temple where short retreat of 1 to 3 months are offered to public. 1 to 3 months is not long time. Its just short time like a morning dew considering you will have 50 or more years to live. 

To put it another way, the so-called 'doctrine of karma' means that whatever arises has causes and conditions. Whatever arises in our continuum is caused, partly, by actions we ourselves engaged in. For instance, if anger arises in my mind, it is because I created the causes of it, but it is also because other conditions gathered. Now, we can affect the conditions that we created. For instance, we can purify negativities so as for them not to give the results they would have lead to. Conditioned phenomena are determined, but not predetermined in the sense one might imagine. H.H. the Dalai Lama speaks of the issue because he is acquainted with westerners. However, a teacher of mine once said that he found the question (about predetermination) odd. In all his years of traditional studies, he never once thought of it or came upon the topic. 

First of all, a seed of desire, or a seed of anger, etc. are not karmic seeds (or karmic imprints). They do not ripen in the same way at all. A seed of desire will give rise to a mind of desire. Second, desires are not seeds. The seeds are non-associated compositional factors while an instance of desire is a mind. Yes, the seeds of the afflictions can be abandoned so that they never give rise to an afflicted mind, such as a mind of anger, lust, etc. There are two types of abandonment: 

Nope. It would first mean you have to not be attached to the idea of them being who you want them to be. Seeking enlightenment isn't a way to fix everyone else. It might be a way to fix yourself, but even that's an attachment. Before anything else, and especially at my level, it's about being aware of yourself, and all the little impulses that experience has built inside you, and letting go of those. Only starting from that foundation would that depth of awareness spread outward, to your surroundings and other people. If it doesn't start that way, your conceptions, your intent, your attachments, are still in the way, and they will be all you see. I hope this was helpful. 

Erm. Attachment is human. It's what we do. Sometimes it's instinct. Sometimes it's learned. It doesn't mean someone is stupid. Maybe a better way to say it is that too much attachment can nudge people into doing the wrong things. 

Taking refuge and generating motivation before meditation session Short sessions Emphasizing introspection Finding joy in applying introspection Studying the Dharma in between sessions 

The best explanation I have found so far explains that the One Mind is identified with so many phenomena because it is all of them. Do you know of a more more detailed account, a clear explanation, or an authoritative reference? In 'Wŏnhyo’s Theory of One Mind', Eun-su Cho says: 

As a way to train in tightening / loosing the apprehension, it is advised to do sessions in which you try to hold onto your object tight for a while (making quiet an effort) and then you relax to effort without loosing the object. You repeat that throughout the whole session. In Stages of Meditation, Kamalashila writes: 

While impermanent phenomena depend on both causes and parts, permanent phenomena do not depend on causes and conditions but they do depend on parts. For instance, a chair is impermanent and depends on causes (if it is made of wood, wood is a substantial cause, etc) and depends on its parts (the legs, etc). Permanent phenomena such as space, emptiness, cessations, etc. depend on parts. For instance, emptiness is emptiness of something on which it depends (not causally, but in terms of part). Therefore, even emptiness, a permanent phenomena, is empty of inherent existence because it is a dependent-arising. From a Madhyamika-Prasangika viewpoint, there are two types of dependent-arising. The third level is the most subtle: 

It's typical human nature why forum like this or chiritinity or religion exists and consequently their misunderstandings. That's why some buddhist sectors keep in very hermited to preserve authority and the jewel intact. Buddha's teaching knowledge alone can be a hinderance to seeing what he realized. It's not knowledge building. You have to meditate and experience. When you build a knowledge while have a strong ego, which ironically it means it can be a danger and might better off not studying at all. Buddha said everything in simple terms 2500 years ago. That's all you need to know. Wisdom and whaever written in sutras as knowledge, interpretation, findings, they all come at once without studying them just when one see the glimpse of the truth. 

There are a lot of inreresting cass involving animals gaining glimpse of Dharma. Many monks may know or have those experiences. If you so desire to know or confirm, you can ask them. They will freely answer the truth. 

Satipatthana is often translated 'four placements of mindfulness'. Placement of mindfulness on the body, feelings, minds, dharmas. Some argue that placement of mindfulness on dharmas imply placement of mindfulness on the sixteen aspects of the four noble truths, including "empty" and "selfless". Such a placement might be vipassana, analytical meditation on emptiness. 

The person is not an illusion, it is like an illusion. It is like an illusion in that it does not appear the way it exists. An illusory horse appears as if it was an actual horse while it is not. From a Prasangika viewpoint, similarly, persons and phenomena (such as relationships) appear as if they were inherently existent while they are not. In this respect, the person is like an illusion. In a commentary to Je Tsongkhapa's middle-length Lam Rim, Geshe Gyaltsen says: 

The types of phenomena of which emptiness is usually emphasized, though, are the aggregates. According to Madhyamika tenets, one cannot obtain even the path of seeing without directly realizing both the emptiness of person and that of phenomena [simultaneously]. Here, phenomena refers to the aggregates. In Precious Garland, Nagarjuna says: 

There are some interesting cases among animals not only cat but birds, dogs, cows, fish and any kind. Hope this is helpful. Don't take it too seriously but for your reference. About a cat who refuse to eat chicken, catfood, fish, or any meats and only eating vegetables and shedding tears when given food. $URL$ 

With regards to desire, There is nothing to be gained or lost. Just watch that feeling closely they come and go but as soon as you think about losing it or compare with others that desire will follow you until you die and after you die. You are just borrowing it temporarily during your life time. With regards to your being not in control, I will tell you in simple terms. Watch your habits phsically also mental habits created from them. Adjust accordingly and naturally. And keep practice and study Dharma. Simple breathing meditation. Don't intentionally breathe in and out. Do it naturally without thinking. Focus on your breathing by counting 1 through 10 for example. Count 1 when you brathe in trhough nose. Count 2 when you breathe out through nose. 1 through 10. 10 through 1. Repeat them until it becomes second nature. Buddha said the Truth. Search for his jewel. Read Diamond sutra. 

Having never been on the verge of enlightenment I can't say for sure what it's like. Most of what I hear relates to peacefulness, and this does not sound anything like peace. 

Another erm. I'm a bit of a hermit. I do have a strong detest for malls, and more for the endless advertising that comes with them, or occasionally shoveled into my mailbox. I think I just reject the materialism of it. Doesn't mean that I would just stay home if there was an opportunity to meet a friend. Doesn't mean I wouldn't go to a cinema if I thought there was a good story to see, or something to learn. My impulse, or detest, is actually attachment, a desire that the world isn't the way I want it to be. That shouldn't lead me to reject the world, I'm in it, aren't I? If I want (and yes, there's that word again) more of what I'd like to see in the world, I should start putting some of it out there. That's the difference, as I see it, between wrong actions and right actions. It's more complicated than that, but I'm rambling, and I think I've said it close enough.