Note: Updated to reflect changes brought in on Oct 1 2017 which removes Rule 33 Handling the Ball, and merges with Law 37 - Obstructing the field According to the rules of cricket 

It does come down to the specific organisation running the game but generally the rules are consistent. Injury is more detailed and depends on its severity, but I would not call that so much as a 'break' 

So with all the above, LBW is considered at the point of first strike of the body without the bat. If that is not LBW, he is only given out if he swipes at the ball to prevent the ball touching the wicket with his hand unless it is to avoid injury. Using the bat to prevent the ball striking the wickets after the shot has been played (and already made contact with either the body or bat) is considered not out. If any other part of the body including and it is deliberate then it should be out. I have seen this happen in matches and have not seen anyone given out 

I did not see the coverage so cannot comment on their disagreement however when fielding within closer proximity there are considerations the fielder must make. 

As can be seen that the 1992 world cup was 4 years 3 months after the 1987 world cup. In Australia and NZ the best cricket weather is after the new year, so that is probablty why it appeared as 1992 and not late 1991. Exactly 4 years later Sri Lanka held the world cup in 1996. If this was readjusted, again leaving only 3 years for them to host, which could have been too short EDIT ADDED: Thinking a bit more Sri Lanka's turn was correctly set at 1996 since it was held in February possibly for the same reasons as it was held in 1992 for Australia and NZ. They could have chosen October/November 1995 (as was the 1987 World Cup in India/Pakistan) but perhaps the weather was better in February 1996. Of course in western Europe mid year is the best time so May/June 1999 was logically the next time it would be held. The 2003, 2011, 2015 World cups were in February but were correct and not offset by a year. The "heads up" of when these cups would start would give these hosts time to prepare and separate itself from the dates of the ICC Champions Trophies END EDIT Perhaps the change was down, not to the 1999 world cup, but the 1992 world cup. They probably wanted it to be 1991 but that would have meant February 1991 and not late 1991, which could have had issues with both NZ and Australia having enough time to get ready for the world cup. This was the first world cup that featured colored clothing and day-night matches. They probably always wanted to get back on the orginal 4 year pattern laid out by the original first 4 world cups. and in fact they kinda did with those 2 being only 2 months into the following year. Other possible factors Another consideration was how close the ICC Trophy was to the World cup. It started out every 2 years, but later changed to every 4 years, ideally not the same year as the World cup: wikipedia link 

So basically once the batsmen complete the first run (which is the only run required to win) then the match ends. If the ball goes to the boundary then that won't count, and therefore the batsman will only be credited 1 run not 4. However if the ball goes to the boundary before they complete the first run then 4 runs will be given to the batsman (and the team score also), since once it reaches the boundary the match ends. 

So, regardless if it hits the side or back wall, the ball can only bounce at most once to keep the rally going. The rules only mention the requirement of hitting the front wall above the tin. the ball can strike any other wall at anytime provided the ball only has at most bounced once. 

If play has not restarted, the referee can change the ruling. However, if play has restarted, no change can be made. EDIT: Changed answer to quote FIFA's Laws of the Game regarding referee decisions. 

In a 4-3 defense, there are two defensive tackles (DT) in the interior of the line, while in a 3-4 defense, there is only one tackle - the nose tackle. Usually, the primary task of the nose tackle is to occupy more than one blocker in the interior of the line to allow linebackers to make plays. In contrast, the role of 4-3 tackles depends heavily on the design of the defense - some 4-3 DT's are pass rushers (example: Warren Sapp) while others also occupy blockers in more of a run-defense role. Vincent Wilfork is listed as an example of a 3-4 Nose Tackles in this Pat Kirwan article on nfl.com. In the same article, Pat Williams is listed as an example of a 4-3 nose tackle. The article describes the roles of these two types of nose tackles: 

In short, cross-training can provide mental and physical benefits by improving mental health and physical fitness while reducing the risk of injury from overuse. Specializing strictly in one sport may bring about a faster increase in performance, but the articles above suggest that the performance and skill improvements will plateau and may lead to greater injury risks. 

So in summary, it appears that referees across all sports do show some subconscious favoritism towards the home team, even while striving to remain impartial. EDIT: Added some excerpts mentioned in one of my comments below. 

Finally, there are anecdotal stories about the increase in young athletes getting injured at higher rates due to sports specialization. One article discusses some of the dangers of specializing in sports at an early age, while another article quotes Pittsburgh Steelers safety Troy Polamalu: 

Gail Imber notes in his article "Referee Bias: Quantifying the Homer Effect and Officiating Home-Field Advantage": 

There are several reasons for the ineligible receiver rules. In my opinion, here are some possible reasons: 

In one youth baseball hitting drill, the instructors used broomsticks and dried beans instead of bats and baseballs: 

In the article, the writer interviewed a number of athletes that were suddenly Olympic medalists, often years after the fact. Some athletes received another medal ceremony in front of fans, another actually received a gold medal at a food court! These competitors were naturally delighted to receive their medals, but also had mixed emotions - some had lost training support that would have been granted as a reward for medaling, and several missed a chance to receive an acknowledgement in front of an Olympic crowd at the competition. Finally, the article notes: 

Cross-training provides two potential benefits, one mental and one physical. It can potentially reduce the risk of injury and, as others have already mentioned, it can provide some mental benefit by reducing boredom and burnout through different physical activities. As this article notes: 

The advantage of having these helmets is that the defensive coordinator can make changes to defensive calls, based on what the defensive staff sees from the offensive. This change provided defenses a counter to the quarterbacks' communications advantage. From the offense's perspective, knowing which player is making defensive audibles is probably of limited value, since the radio turns off with 15 seconds left on the play clock. The defensive player with the radio would be quite obvious - the two designated players are chosen before the game, and the active one would be wearing a helmet with the green dot and would be passing along updated defensive plays. However, there is another possibility, as Peter King notes in a recent Sports Illustrated column. He relates an Eli Manning anecdote describing the importance of knowing who is "the mike": 

In the blog post titled "More evidence for referee bias in soccer," Phil Birnbaum points to two studies related to European football - in the Spanish and German leagues. He notes: 

However, certain types of exercise, such as interval training, relies on judicious use of high intensity activity interspersed with lower intensity activity, so this "10% rule" is more of a guideline since each person's body has a unique tolerance for workout intensity. 

Distance to Finish (DTF) is the simplest and most common way to measure distance in sailing. If you take a Great Circle line (the shortest distance on the surface of the Earth) between the boat and the next mark, buoy or finish, that is the DTF. Once round the next mark, the measurement starts again to the following one. It isn't an accurate indicator of who will actually be in the lead, as it doesn't take into account course made good over tides, winds, upwind sailing capability etc., until the boats are close to the mark/buoy/finish line. Because of this, commentators typically provide analysis based on expectations of positions, and this is especially valuable for long distance races such as the Vendée Globe. They take into account known weather patterns, sea conditions etc. From the Volvo Ocean Race site (emphasis mine): 

If you have identified your ideal heart rate for the distance you are running, and use a monitor in training then it makes sense to use it in a race - it helps you to keep from getting caught up in the race spirit and pushing too hard (especially useful in longer distance runs) I used to just use my feeling and a known running cadence, which worked for most marathons, but for my last Paris Marathon I got over excited early on and ruined my time by overdoing it. Since then I would swear by a monitor. 

No matter what fins you use, your arm position should never be such that your freestyle recovery is in the water. If the bow wave is high for you, rotate your shoulders more and raise your elbow higher. Your coach should be pointing this out to you. If you are raising your arms, you don't want to be pressing your chest and head down. You may wish to discontinue use of fins, or possibly switch to shorter fins (as per @Phil's comment) in order to focus on your arm stroke. 

So, as no-one has answered, I thought I'd pop up some of the info I found in my research. It doesn't seem to matter much whether the leader continues or whether you swap leads, however leading for a couple of pitches and then swapping may get your hand in with placing anchors on that climb. Weigh this up against fatigue. The key piece for all multi-pitch climbs is rope handling at each belay point - this is where some additional techniques and practices come into play: From Petzl's guidance: 

When I was competing at school I built my own one, and the end result not only felt just like one of the better ones I could buy, it cost me about the same. It also took me a lot of time and effort to ensure the layers were correctly affixed and smoothed. This is a very small statistical sample, but I would suggest buying a nice bat that feels good to you. 

The generally accepted solution is to accept that this will happen - you can minimise the risk by kicking the board backward when you bail, but most skaters would rather damage the board than accidentally get hooked up with a leash in traffic, or trip on the leash when trying to bail at speed etc. Boards are meant to take dings anyway. That said, there are some situations when you might want one, so you can use a leash (a little like a surfer's leash, but tightly coiled so it won't go under the trucks, hopefully) but you will look silly and will get harassed by other skaters :-) There was someone who invented a 'dead man's brake' that would stop a longboard quite quickly if your foot came off it, but it didn't catch on. 

This gives more power, as the sail flattens, and the mast bends, but be ready to slacken it off as the sail overpowers. That basic rule, having your vang tension proportional to the wind strength is an excellent approximation. This allows the sail more power - which is what you want control of in racing. It would be ideal if the helmsman could also work the vang, because you can play the helm, main sheets and vang off against each other, but on a 2 person boat you'd usually have your crew play the vang. Edit: Just found a brief page from Dave Dellenbaugh (an America's Cup veteran) that gives a little more detail on these.