The difference is in the utility. Intelligent Design (ID) is a valid hypothesis in the sense that it can be applied to observations. In a trivial way, it also has pretty good explanatory power i.e. "because God made it that way" is surprisingly all encompassing. In fact, it's so good at this that it applies to archaeology just as well as it does biology. Where fails as a scientific hypothesis is that it has zero predictive power. If you find, say, a shard of pottery at an archaeological site, ID would give you no new information as to what else you may find. As such, having ID as a hypothesis is indistinguishable from having no hypothesis at all with respect to utility. 

This is perfectly reasonable logic, not circular in any way. If you accept the two premises then the inference follows quite naturally. It only gets interesting when you try to map the premises to the real world. The first is fairly uncontroversial, the second somewhat less so. 

The interpretation of a curved spacetime in General Relativity is a consequence of the theory rather than the theory itself. The form of the theory is based on a number of postulates: 

It's largely historic. If you look at the equivalent in the ex-Warsaw pact countries you see that (what you call) cultural right tends to align with economic left and vice versa. What you're mostly seeing is a split between a traditional/conservative grouping and a liberal/modernising grouping. There are some logical connections though. For example, it follows that someone wanting to use laws to affect social change e.g. with LGBT rights, also is comfortable with the state being significantly involved in people's private lives. It is harder to reconcile a small government philosophy with significant anti-discrimination legislation though not impossible (I tend to that view for example). Similarly, it is reasonable to assume that someone who wants to affect social inequality needs to be willing to use the state, and particularly the state's finances, to effect that change. Again, a small goverment/laissez-faire approach is hard to reconcile with, say, a significant welfare state. 

Roughly speaking, in mathematics there are three kinds of statements: Statements which can be proven to be true, statements which can be proven to be false, and statements which can neither be shown to be true nor shown to be false. With the continuum hypothesis, it has been shown that it cannot be proven to be true, and that it cannot be proven to be false. Unlike what you are stating, there is no reason to believe that it would be true that I would know of, so you should carefully check your source for that information. There is a famous conjecture called the "Goldbach conjecture", which states that every even number n >= 4 is the sum of two prime numbers. It is considered very very likely that there is no counterexample to this conjecture, but no proof to this conjecture has been found (yet). With this conjecture, we can say that if it is false, then there is a proof that it is false: If the conjecture is false, then there is an even number n >= 4 that is not the sum of two primes. In that case, we could just write down all prime numbers <= n and check that no two of them add up to n, and we would have a proof that n is not the sum of two primes and that therefore the Goldbach conjecture is false. In other words, if the Goldbach conjecture is undecidable (there is no proof either that it is true nor that it is false), then there cannot be a counterexample to the conjecture, which means it is true. But this conclusion depends on an argument that is very specific to this particular problem. It works for some other problems, but not for many. And we cannot draw any conclusions from our current inability to prove something. We can only draw conclusions if we can prove that some statement is unprovable. 

Not quite. In its classical formulation, the 1st law says that energy is constant in a closed system. As this isn't entirely true, it has had a number of reformulations to include rest energy and virtual particles. I'm not a big fan of them, scientifically speaking, as they require you to measure the energy content of the universe to verify. 

I'll try to answer your last point re why there has been no communist society and, hopefully, cover some of your other points on the way. Firstly, I'm going to focus on a Marxist approach as that's been the basis for most non-trivial attempts at forming a communist society. So, what is communism? From a Marxist standpoint it is a society that follows the inevitable transformation from agrarian to bourgeois capitalist to state socialist to communist society. Marx believed that it would be characterised by the lack of a state, lack of class difference and where each would produce according to their ability and each would consume according to their need. This is, presumably, the beautiful thing that you heard about. Many people, particularly in the early 20C, also believed this to be beautiful. As such, there were numerous attempts to institute state socialism either from an existing capitalist state or bypassing that entirely (as was the case in Russia). Up to this point, this analysis is reasonably uncontroversial. The next bit is my view that I've not heard elsewhere. My view is that, up to a point, Marx was right. Although not inevitable (some societies spotted the flaw before the transformation), there does appear to be a natural transformation between societal structures. Unfortunately, the thing that follows state socialism, and consequently what many see as communism, turns out to have a somewhat different character to Marx's conception. Specifically, it turns out to be a totalitarian, police state where everyone is equally badly off except for a small, dictatorial elite. So you see the dichotomy. In my view, we have seen communism i.e. what follows state socialism. It's just very, very different from what Marx thought (hoped?) it would be. BTW following Marx's transformation idea, it does appear that there is also a natural transition from this totalitarian communism to democratic capitalism cf Eastern Europe. My personal view is that the reason for the Marxist concept of an "inevitable" progression is fairly straightforward: people tend to find similar solutions to similar problems and similar societies often have similar problems. I'd also argue that anyone who thinks that democratic capitalism is the end state isn't really taking notice of history. 

Believing in a religion will likely change your behaviour, completely unrelated to the question whether your religion is based on a correct or incorrect belief. That change may be positive or negative. Anybody, including an atheist, will appreciate if your behaviour changes in a positive way due to your religion. But if that religious person tries to convince an atheist of their religion, the atheist will likely see this as a negative behaviour. On the other hand, an atheist may not appreciate that someone believing in a religion bases their life on an incorrect belief. (Or they may not care about what you do with your life, since it is your life). On the third hand, an atheist grown up among many Christians might enjoy walking to a church on a Sunday, sitting there with lots of other people, listen to someone speaking at the front, singing a few songs with other people - some atheists will enjoy it, some will find it boring, some will dislike it. All in all, anybody including an atheist will evaluate how religion affects them, and value or not value religion accordingly. Would the world be a better place without Christian / Muslim / Hindu / any other religion or not? Everybody is allowed their own answer to that question. We should also remember that there are not just atheists, but that there are also religious people who accept only one religion and not others. For example, there is one spectacularly anti-religion person right now who wants to become president of the USA. And "being sympathetic to religion" is not right: It should be "sympathetic to one specific religion". Different religions affect their believers in different ways. If your religion told you to murder small children, then no atheist, and no believer of any other religion, will be sympathetic to your religion. 

Sure, if you want. Unless you happen to live in a place or time that takes heretical notions seriously, there's nothing particular stopping you. If your question is whether there is any literal or liturgical basis for that interpretation then then I'm pretty sure the answer is no. For instance, on a literal front, Logos is not the Greek for prayer usually used in the Bible, proseuche is. On a liturgical front, I don't believe any Christian denomination has taken this interpretation (very possibly because there's no literal basis for it). You may want to check with Biblical Hermeneutics or Christianity SEs respectively but I doubt you'll get a different response. Edit: hopefully made it clearer why there isn't a literal or liturgical basis for the interpretation. 

The answer for a large number of fields, including philosophy, is no. There is a lot of academic work published that has no touching points to anything remotely scientific. There is also a fair amount of research that probably should be more scientific than it is but that's a separate matter. Next I'll answer the question, again paraphrased 

Searle's argument fails because there's nothing specific to consciousness in it. As such, if you replace "possesses consciousness" with "plays chess" then his argument still stands but is patently wrong. The reason why the weather simulation won't make you wet is that the computer that Searle is implicitly assuming doesn't have the actuation ability of producing water. It is perfectly plausible to have a simulation that does have that ability and so his assertion would be moot. It may well be that consciousness requires some property that current digital computers do not possess so that they cannot become conscious. However, external actuation does appear to be necessary. Moreover, it does appear that it is an emergent property that can be contained in a relative small space i.e. our brains. As such, Searle may end up being correct but not from this line of argument. 

Logically, if you haven't proven it, and nobody else has proven it, then you don't know that it's true. "If it were true, then someone would have proven it" is not necessarily true. But "Nobody has proven it", that is an argument that you can only refute by proof. Sometimes we find statement that we believe to be very likely to be true, but that we also believe to be very hard to prove. "If it were true, then someone would have proven it" is not true at all, because it looks very hard to prove. "Nobody has proven it" is true (until someone proves it), so you are stuck with "I believe it very likely to be true". Sometimes it's so likely to be true that it is unreasonable to think it is false. 

"Refute" has several meanings, including "contradict or deny". In that sense I can refute anything without any justification. That meaning wouldn't produce anything philosophically useful so we ignore that. There is also the meaning "prove that something is wrong". That's a bit too strong. If I prove that the fine-tuning argument for the existence of god is false, then I don't need to believe anything. So I take "refute" as "giving a good argument that something is wrong; good enough that it needs to be looked at, possibly right or wrong itself until a close examination is done". The anthropic argument doesn't require multiple possible universes. It's possible that the existence of a universe with just the right set of conditions for intelligent life was a priori very unlikely, still here we are, so we are just very, very lucky. Say you find out as a young child that your parents are very rich. Yet they haven't inherited money, they don't run a successful business, they are not film stars or professional athletes, nor bankrobbers or kidnappers, so maybe they won the lottery. Winning the lottery is very unlikely, yet your parents are very rich without any good reason to be rich other than a lottery win. So maybe you were just very lucky. Without that argument, there is still no need for a multiverse; consecutive universes would be enough. So every 100 billion years there is a new universe, maybe every quintillion years or even more rare there is a new universe where biologial life like hours is going to exist. Now another question: How "fixed" are these constants? Is it at all possible that our universe could have had a different speed of light? If not then all the universes and multiverses can't give us different constants. Are these constants "unfixed" enough that god could change them - if he wanted to in the first place? If we say no then we are just lucky. 

No, for two reasons: Firstly, possession of a snake is not germane to the utility of anti-venom i.e. everyone possessing a vial of anti-venom would be equivalent (and indeed better though not especially useful). Secondly, anti-venom is a different kind of protection than carrying a gun. The former is a passive defence while the latter is an active deterrent. A more accurate equivalent to anti-venom would be for everyone to wear a bullet-proof vest. As no-one is suggesting the latter, the former is not really a strong argument. Now, if you carried something that snakes were fearful of (nothing springs to mind except possibly a gun) then that would be a reasonable equivalent. But, presumably, that doesn't really achieve your aim. BTW this isn't intended as an implied defence of gun ownership but a critique of the snake argument. 

know about the suffering be able to do something about the suffering be willing to do something about the suffering 

As a counter example, there was a Gnostic dualist tradition where the creator, known as the Demiurge, was a different entity from the god that was worshipped. The latter was a supra-material being that had the interesting property that a part of it (called the nous) was in each person. So to connect with god one had to connect with your internal nous. The Demiurge was a sort of blind, mad chaotic being that wasn't really good or evil. As such, the Gnostics that followed this tradition, were definitely theist but did not believe that their god was involved in creation at all. Interestingly, this led to traditions that had extreme relations to the world. Either ascetic i.e. trying not to interact with creation as far as possible or libertine i.e. do whatever you want as it doesn't make any difference. 

Consider the situation where it is of no importance whatsever whether I am on the bench or not. In that case 

Consider the difference in the situation. In science, where you have a scientific theory and perform experiments to prove or disprove the theory, you have as many attempts as you want to perform these experiments. In a criminal court, there was usually just one crime and just one chance to find evidence, against someone who tried to avoid the existence of such evidence. So we can raise the level a lot higher in science. "Rather it seems that the person can be sentenced [for murder] as long as there is a a reasonable assumption that he is the murderer." Not at all. There has to be proof beyond reasonable doubt. That's a much higher mark. 

Let's state a geometric statement: If I have a point A, and two more points B and C, all three points different, and I draw a line from A to B and a line from A to C, then unless point B is on the line A to C or point C is on the line A to B, the lines A to B and A to C meet at point A and have no other point in comment. That statement doesn't require any knowledge of axioms. And in pre-axiomatic geometry, someone would have tried and succeeded to "prove" it in a non-formal way. When we have this non-formal proof, there is an obvious question: What makes the deductions used in the proof valid? Are they all valid? Can we decide what is a valid deduction and what is not a valid deduction? These are difficult questions and would lead to the discovery of formal proofs. Then people would figure out that there are certain things that they just assume, without proof. For example "if A and B are different points then there is exactly one straight line connecting A and B". That situation is quite unsatisfactory. So they would write down all the "assumed facts" and check which ones really must be assumed: They would try to find proofs for "assumed facts". If a proof is found then it isn't an "assumed" fact anymore, it is something that can be proved. And then they called the remaining "assumed facts" axioms. The mathematics hasn't really changed that much, except that people in axiomatic geometry know what they are doing, while in non-axiomatic geometry they didn't really know. So some proofs may have become invalid because it was found they didn't use valid deductions (they may have been replaced with valid proofs). Some "assumed facts" may have been proved and therefore were not needed as axioms. It's like driving a car, and then learning how a car works and understanding what actually happens when you hit the gas pedal or the breaks. Sometimes it makes no difference, sometimes it makes a lot of difference, but you probably feel better knowing what you are doing and knowing that you can rely on it.