Is it commonplace and ordinary? At many workplaces it is. This is something completely dependent on the corporate culture and the personalities of the people involved. In your workplace, the CEO has been known to yell which means that all the other managers are going to follow that behavioral cue. The truth is, in a company like this is it very hard to change the culture. If only one manager yells, it is usually easier. This is not to say that it is the most effective way to manage. It is not. People resent being publicly shamed and often sabotage those who do it by working slower, making more mistakes, taking hidden actions that come to light after they leave etc. The useful question in this situation is not, is it normal as clearly it is where you work. The real question is what can I do about it? First decide if there are other reasons why you want to stay. Is the pay particularly good, is the work particularly interesting, are you getting experience in something that will take you to a better place in your career later on? Those might be valid reason to stay and learn to cope. If there is nothing special about this workplace, then consider if you want to move on. There certainly are places (and many of them as well) where yelling would be considered to be bad. When you interview, ask how issues are handled when something goes wrong. If you want, explain that the company culture in your current position is that people are yelled at publicly and that you are uncomfortable with this. The companies that yell will likely mark you off the list at this point, but that's ok, you want to find out before you accept another position. It may take a little longer to find the next job, but it will likely be a better fit for you. Should you decide to stay, then you need to learn some coping skills. The first and most critical is to not take it personally if it is directed at you. The person is yelling because he or she likes to yell. It doesn't make you a bad person that you made a mistake. Take note of what you did wrong and don't do it again, but let all the anger slide off without letting it get to you. It isn't always easy to do this and meditation is the best way to learn the skill of letting things go. The next thing (and one of the reasons why some managers wrongly think this is the best way to manage people) is to make sure your personal performance at work is good enough that you don't get yelled at. Outstanding performers are not yelled at often even in bad places. When others are being yelled at, try not to watch or listen. If the manager won't give the employee the courtesy of privacy, then you can at least do so. If you get promoted, take note of how this yelling makes you feel and then don't give in to the temptation to do it (which admittedly can be very strong when someone massively messes something up). This is a learning experience on why this is a poor management technique. Remember to always praise publicly and criticize in private. Remember that the goal is to improve performance and fix mistakes not to lay blame. If you are ever a second line or higher supervisor, make sure to notice if subordinate managers are yelling and bring that up as a performance issue. The only people who can stop this sort of behavior are senior managers. If you become one, make sure to get out of your office enough to see how your subordinates are treating their subordinates and nip this behavior in the bud as soon as you see it. Make it clear that retaining their job is dependent on stopping the behavior. At the employee level, you have very little recourse to stopping the behavior. You can complain to HR, but chances are they will not be your friend in an issue like this as long as the manager is seen as being effective at getting the work done. If they were looking for a reason to fire him, it could work, but really it is generally not a good idea. 

I would say your chances of getting the full pay raise and back pay would be low unless you hire a lawyer. Since this is likely to be alot of moeny, it is probably worth it to get the legal repesentation.It is likely you might be offered some increase to shut you up. From their perspective, they don't have the money to pay you back pay and you let it go one for five years which indicates that you were OK with the salary. I am not saying their perspective is right, just that they will be far more annoyed at this request now that if you had stuck to your guns the first year and insisted on your raise. It is possible that if you insist, they will take steps to remove you such as making your quota much higher and then firing you for nonperformance. Yes this would be retaliation and possibly illegal, but they already don't care about legalities of the signed contract. I bring this up as a possibility just because you need to think about this possibility before you bring it up and have an action plan. Especially you will need to know what you need to document about changed circumstances after asking for the raise. This too means that you should consult with a lawyer. Personally, I would consider moving on to a new job and then seeking the back pay through legal action. By asking for the back pay, you are very likely to damage your relationship with your boss and others in your organization. It might be the best move to be out of the organization before you try. I saw this play out at a former job where a group of employees were underpaid. They used a lawyer and got paid, but their work life was very bad afterwards. Also, let this be a lesson learned. First, have specific place at home where you keep legal documents such as work contracts. Also keep a copy at work. Next, if you lose such a document, go get a copy from HR before you need it. Next don't wait five years to ask for what you are entitled to by contract. I am not a lawyer, but I would suspect that by not asking you have weakened whatever legal case you have. In any event, do not take any action until you consult a labor lawyer. 

A track record of accomplishments similar to what I need (both in terms of experience in the technical and the business domain) Years of experience in the technical (this may include technologies that show the abiltiy to learn the ones we use for instnce a Java dev with storng accomplishments might outrank a C# dev with weak ones even for a C3 shop) This would include experience with personal projects if they are of a professional nature or level of difficulty Formal education (degree) Formal education degree not yet earned Personal projects that are not terribly business oriented Certificates 

I wish I could say people will be supportive and all will be well. Sadly, my experience has been that the victim most often receives far less support than the attacker. People do this for several reasons. Those who have been sexually harrassed as well (maybe even by this person) may be upset because you didn't tolerate it and they did. This means that their choice wasn't the only one they could have taken and people tend to be upset when people don't make the same choice they do (You should have seen the vitriol I got at one place for putting in my notice when they all hated the place too). When you go against their choices, people often feel as if you are judging them even when you are not. I think it is the betrayal of those who have also been harrassed that hurts the most because you would expect them to understand. But if they didn't take the same action, they often feel you betrayed them. Others (especially managers of the opposite sex) will be upset with you because they are afraid you will do the same thing to them. They will feel they can't make a joke in your presence or that they can't be alone in a room with you even for things like performance appraisal where they should be alone with you. They don't know where you draw the line and thus they will always be afraid you will have them arrested as well. Yes, I know you probably wouldn't if they don't physically attack you (which is what I'm guessing happened since you say there is video evidence). Sometimes people who are not harrassed have no idea how much hell you went through before you had to do something. They will think this is a one-time incident that came up out of the blue and that you might turn on them at any moment for something totally trivial. There will be people who just absolutely can't believe that Joe would do that, so you must be in the wrong. He's a good family man with a wife and three kids. He couldn't possibly do what she said he did. There may also be an element of "She thinks she's so perfect, I'll show her." So be prepared to have to work twice as hard to get half the credit you used to get. Be prepared to be misjudged for every thing you say. Be prepared to have your most innocuous statements be misinterpreted and have people threaten (or actually) to turn you in for things at the drop of a hat. You may find moving on to another job is the best option. If you do decide to seek other employment, do not mention this issue when asked why you want to leave. Interviewers may very well interpet your explanation as "This person is a troublemaker. Do not hire." You will need support to get through this. Try to get as much suport from people outside the workplace as you can. I know how hard it is. I was attacked in the office in full view of 20 people. All of them told me they would lie on the stand if I had the guy arrested. My boss told me that I could forget about ever getting any promotions (I was very junior) and then they sent me on work-related, out-of-town trips with the guy. I didn't have him arrested and have regretted it many times since then. You have more courage than I did. So I salute you. And I wish you well. And I hope your workplace reacts better than mine did and better than I have seen it react many times over the years to many people with similar problems. But be prepared for it to be very bad at work and then it is nice surprise if it is not. Stand tall, be proud of yourself and let the chips fall where they may. At least you can live with yourself. You have a legal case pending, so it is best to deflect all comment with something along the lines of "I can't talk about the case." And make sure you have legal counsel. It's not fair that the victim has to protect herself from retaliation, but it all too often is the case.