Here is a question that you've not answered: Does the change you are proposing fix a typo that could potentially cause confusion down the road? You've mentioned that you point out "typos to do with internal acronyms and terms". And in some cases I can see the importance of correcting a typo. If there are two internal acronyms, ABC and ACB and someone in the meeting uses the wrong one then potentially(if there is no context perhaps) this could lead to confusion. But honestly? This part of my answer will be split into two parts. The first involves meeting notes that are meant to be post processed and distributed or involving communication outside your team and work. The second involves internal, 'meeting minutes'. Let's go with the first. If a group in a meeting is working together on a document that will be released externally than everyone in the room should be on point in catching and alleviating typos and poor communication. These materials are unique because, ultimately, they will represent the organization to the outside world. There is a responsibility, in this case, to speak up about any ambiguity or mistakes. In this case you, and everyone else in the room, is absolutely in the right to correct, gently if possible, any mistakes. The second? Well the second situation is where you kind of come off looking like a jerk. Internal, informal meeting minutes for casual meetings are just that: informal, internal and casual. Things that do not accurately represent the meeting should be called out. Say if the meeting agreed to do XYZ and the meeting minutes say "By consensus the group has agreed NOT to do XYZ" Otherwise? You're showing off whether you realize it or not. Whether it is your intention or not you are attempting to show how much more you know/notice/etc than the person taking the notes. If it bothers you that much? Take the notes yourself. Is anyone else in the room suggesting fixes for typos? Really think back over the last few meetings - how many times has everyone in the room spoken up? Of that, for each person, roughly what percentage was to correct typos in the meeting minutes? This is how you can guage how your regular 'corrections' are being taken. There is an important lesson all developers and IT have to learn eventually and that is the lesson of 'Good enough'. You are, absolutely, putting your working relationship with other people in the room at risk every time you recommend a 'correction' and for what gain? Do these notes live on forever, being referenced back constantly? Or are they like most meeting minutes where they get dumped on a network drive, emailed out or on a sharepoint in order to show that, yes, things happened in the meeting? What is the real benefit, other than scratching your typo itch, that these corrections provide? Imagine, for a moment, if you were working in a room and every time you made a minor, unimportant, mistake a specific person called you out. You open the cmd instead of the server console or something minor, unimportant, otherwise unnoticeable and, immediately, this other person calls you out. "You're doing that wrong!" How would you feel about that person? Especially, perhaps, if there were others in the group who did not point those things out? Some folks who read this may be adamant that they would be thrilled to have their mistakes pointed out but, let's be honest here - no one likes to be called out. No one likes to be called out on minor, unimportant things. No one likes to be put on the spot(typing in front of a group) and called out on minor, unimportant things on notes that may never be seen again. You have a couple of possible solutions here. First - if the typos bother you so badly why haven't you volunteered to take the notes? Be polite, even joking: "I'm super particular about typos, do you mind if I take the notes?" You may be unaware of the challenge of actively participating in a meeting while taking public notes. Or, alternatively, suggest spreading it around. Let everyone take the notes. If, for whatever reason, that isn't a possibility take a break on commenting on typos and watch other's reactions to those typos. See if other's feel they are important enough to comment, see how they do so, get a sense of the culture of correcting others in your group. 

As a supervisor, your niece can always pull rank, and ask them to talk in English. What impact this has depends on: A. What relationship she has with them. B. Are they doing any cribbing compared to just talking about stuff. Your niece could also look at it as a challenge, and learn the language. Apart from making the team feel nice, it also creates a situation where the fact that your niece cannot speak the language is clearly emphasised to the people speaking it. 

Make full use of this. When you go looking for your next job - which maybe some time away - your title will matter. At the same time, don't get pushy with your new company. 

The solutions to this problem depend on who this old lady is. Is she a worker that produces something - Manager, Developer, Designer, etc? Is she support - secretary, admin, assitant, reception? Is she a mover and a shaker? (Note - this might be someone from either category above.) Not all that long ago a company I was working for was trying to migrate from Office 2007 to Office 2010. There was a secretary who used 2003 because she refused to learn any changes in software. This was in 2012 - she was using Windows XP and Office 2003 when the entire rest of the department had been migrated. She was the secretary to a VIP in the company and, as such, a pretty big mover and shaker. We finally migrated that computer when she retired. This is an example of a person who you may not be able to migrate. Understandably your situation is a bit different - you're shutting down your exchange servers and migrating. But if she is in with an important enough person or she herself is an important enough person then you need to come at things from a different angle. We had a couple other folks, at the same time, who had tried to put off migration. This is the cynic in me but a lot of them were complaining so that they could have an 'excuse' for any issues. Oh they forgot to do something? It's that goshdarned new computer system! The solution for us, for everyone except the one secretary, was to get buy ins from their bosses. It's one thing to complain about something that IT is 'forcing' everyone to do. It's another thing to complain about something your direct boss is excited or happy about. That, ultimately, ended up being our problem with our lone holdout. She got to her boss and poisoned the well before we did. Even the oldest, crotchety-est ladies on staff somehow ended up being fine with the changes when it stopped being "the mean IT people are doing this" and became "This is part of your job, if you are incapable..." That is, admittedly, pretty cynical and a tiny bit mean. It wasn't all stick and no carrot - one on one training with users having problems. Promises(that you intend to keep) that when they have a problem with the system you will be there for them and help them resolve it. That if it's a legitimate problem or change you will go to bat for them. You will stand up and say "Yes Sr BossPerson, Gladys was unable to turn in the TPS reports as you expected and it was because of our system and this is how we've resolved this..." At the end of the day most people jut want to do their jobs. A lot of people also like complaining. The key to the second problem is to acknowledge the first. 

One way to look at these conflicts is to pretend (takes time and effort) that they are merely technical problems rather than the personal, ego-based issues that they are. Assuming you have the time or can take some out, call get everyone's inputs, and tell them you will take a decision based on the respective merits of the library. Option A: If having two libraries is not a maintenance issue (the code does not give you too much trouble) simply let both lie and tell both people concerned there are many more important things to do - discuss pending Quadrant II deadlines here. Get them involved in those. Option B: Let both people that you are looking at cross-domain skills, and you will decide on a library - but the person who has earlier worked on the library will not be the one doing the implementation, the other person will. This is slightly nasty, but should tempers cooled down pretty fast. For the long run, create the impression that you do not want to discuss specifics, are not interested in personal arguments - but do want to help the person grow as a whole. They will eventually stop complaining. In general, never literally get into a fight between two subordinates and take sides - as in when it is actually happening. 

Notice the difference? These answers are full of red flags for an interviewer. Whether or not they are true, whether or not they are something you might say to your friends/support network doesn't matter. What matters, overall, is that they are unprofessional and personal in an inappropriate way. Consider questions like this not as dangerous or bad questions but as an opportunity to interview the company you hope to work for. If someone balks when you say "My company required a lot of overtime. I want to work somewhere when I don't regularly have to work nights and weekends" then that tells you something about that company and can help you decide if you want to work there. Keep answers honest but positive and professional. Use the answers you give to highlight you preferences(or even your 'strengths'). 

This is management jargon. And it cannot be factually correct. Companies acquire other companies in order to make use of their technology, their patents, the knowhow their employees possess, the brand value that the company enjoys. The acquiring company will bring its own expertise into play in order to increase market share, take the company into new markets, introduce it to existing clients of the acquiring company. All of the above are good things, but they show that: 

is just not possible. Now let's come to the difficult part. The most common reason to acquire another company include synergies between the two companies, the acquiree company is not being well-run, and there is potential for cost cutting. The synergy reason is the most compelling from a growth perspective, but is the most difficult to realize in practice due to culture clashes, knowledge silo, operating and legal issues, and a hundred other small things. The acquiree company not being well-run, and the cost-cutting are what get picked up in the short term. When a company is being set up they tend to acquire a lot of people who are needed to put the departments and processes in place. As they do their job, they get rewarded with C-level positions, and can't be asked to leave without causing culture and morale issues. With an acquisition, ALL positions will get looked with a fine-toothed comb, and a "strategic perspective". The top level management has the most difficulty in justifying its role, because they generally drive long term projects, and don't do hands-on work. Either way, if they are leaving, they have been asked to leave, or been given a hint. Either way, you need to be aware yourself of what is happening. 

Allow me to first point out that although this was probably not your intention you come off as kind of a jerk while describing your problem. I bring this up not because it hurt my, or any other Workplace users', feelings but because if you are describing things to us and it sounds kind of crummy, I can image that a similar emotion comes across when actually interacting with your coworkers and peers. Consider it from their side for a moment. You exclaim that they don't have a life! Or that the life they think they have isn't real because it doesn't involve a wife, volunteering and 'paint nights'. Let me just say that that is the yuppiest thing I've heard since people stopped throwing white cardigans over their shoulders and putting extra 'h's in all their words. And, you know, there's nothing wrong with that. What is wrong is thinking that that is the only kind of worthwhile life there is. I'm a grown up, I have a life and it's nothing like yours. And that's ok. That's ok for me. That's ok for you. Imagine how boring the world would be if we were all the same. I would try toning down the 'I have a real life and y'all are losers' a bit, that would probably help with socializing with your coworkers. And while they're baffled at you bonfire, painting, wine tasting, grownup nights where you all talk about serious politics and issues facing the world, you're probably equally baffled about their raiding, poopsocking, World of Warcraft night elf druid role-playing all-nighters where they totally banged their head against heroic lich king but they almost had him(phase 7 d00ds!). It's all a matter of different priorities. All of that being said, it also sounds like you and the group work with may not be a good fit culture wise. This might mean it's just the group you work with. It might mean that it's the whole company that's not a good fit and, again, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. While it's true that you don't have to socialize with your coworkers it makes for a much nicer work environment if you can find some sort of common ground. Since you are apparently the odd man out, I might suggest trying to find something they like to do and getting a little bit involved. This would give you all some common ground and almost everyone likes sharing their hobbies with others. Another option would be looking for another team within the company(or another company if this is a company-wide sort of culture) that has a culture more in line with what you like to do. 

The problem here I think is with the word "office". Try to change this to something else. You could try Manager, Growth or something else. I think going into jobs, a title that talks Business Development is more likely to be appreciated than others. 

This is a good responsibility to take up and prove that you have managerial skills apart from technical ones. Just be careful not to rub people the wrong way, or to lose your technical skills in the process. 

The first thing to understand is that you are in a good dilemma. Being made redundant, and having to be unemployed create stress on the mind. Hence, it was logical on your part to take the job offer. Note that had the first company valued you highly they could have made you an offer at market rate. I am guessing that the reason you were able to close a better offer so much faster is because the first offer was below market rate. Having said this, morally and legally you are not liable to continue with the company just because you have spent a week with them (I am presuming there is no contract that you have signed). You should politely, and professionally inform your reporting manager that you have another offer in hand and would like to leave. If at all, your manager wants to discuss (don't bring it up first), you should give him the chance to negotiate and counter offer. Companies behave like rational agents when making offers, because their stakes in it are often quite low. You need to focus on getting the best career and job that you can. 

You should leave a review on a site like glassdoor if you can do so as neutrally as possible and if you feel it will not be a detriment to your further career. What do I mean by that? "Did not receive health insurance in a timely fashion" is something you should let other's know about. "Run by deceiving man-babies" is not very helpful on the surface. I mean, let's be honest here, as a prospect I would absolutely want to know both of those but one is inappropriate to a professional review. And that's what you should keep in mind, professionalism. Right now your question comes off as pretty 'ranty'. I think most readers can sympathize but it's not a great review nor is it professional. And, hey, that's cool - sometimes we just gotta rant right? But ranting of this sort is the kind of thing you don't want tied to your reputation because, legitimate or not, it tends to make you look worse than the company in question. So what can you say? "High stress environment", "High attrition", "poor description of job duties", "slow to get health insurance information"... things like this could be part of a discrete, professional review. Try to subtract personal feelings from it and move away from 'deceiving manbabies' and more into a discussion of general problems you ran into. 

It does. Your job could get outsourced to a vendor. Your performance might not reach the right ears. Whatever. Also, while you should talk to your reporting manager about these issues, keep in mind that his primary role now will be to "hold the ship" together. So if he gives you a negative answer, you need to start looking out for another job immediately. Even if he gives a positive answer, you should check out market value, understand what roles are available, what are your best career prospects, etc. In conclusion, an acquistion is something where you always need to be careful, especially if you are in the company that has been acquired.