Yes. Not seeing things as they really are. Identifying with things as being I or mine. When covetousness leads to hatred, it means that you were not being mindful, and therefore did not apply the correct antidote, which is letting go. As soon as greed or aversion arises in the mind, it must be seen/observed with proper insight and let go of. Also, as Chris mentioned you can also apply mudita, after having observed the arising and ceasing of envy. 

I presume that your object is the breath, crossing the anapana spot (under the nostrils, on the upper lip). You must be careful since wanting the Nimitta to appear will actually prevent it from appearing. As long as you desire such things, to experience Nimitta or Jhana, it will simply never happen. Let go of such expectations, completely. Also, by wanting Nimitta to appear, there is a very high chance of it being the product of your imagination. You must let it be, do not give it any attention. Nimitta will strengthen, stabilize, and merge with the object on its own. Always remain with the object. 

Pa-Auk Forest Monastery, in Myanmar (Burma). $URL$ However, you will have to develop access concentration before you can begin Vipassana (Satipatthana). You may remain there for a period of months or years, even lifetime if you are able to renew your visa each year. You also have the chance to ordain after a few weeks or months, once deemed trustworthy. At first you will be able to get a visa of 3 months and extend the visa for a 1 year period each time. Yearly visa is about 100$ US. May you realize Nibbana and know true peace and freedom, friend. 

By walking the path yourself you will be of great benefit to others. You are giving the gift of harmlessness. A living example of the Dhamma, which is the path of complete peace and freedom. The Buddha was a liberated one, a pure being, a great one. He no longer had any attachments whatsoever. Helping others when asked or when a situation arises (proper, beneficial) is what pure beings do. Having eradicated all mental defilements. Freed from avidity, anger, no longer having any kind of delusion, ignorance about the true nature of things. Pure beings will never harm others, in any circumstances. Any possibilities to do so can no longer manifest themselves since they can no longer arise. Therefore they would never resort to violence, aggressive behavior and such. What would the Blessed one do? I can only speculate for I am not such a great one... It is said that the Buddha had supramundane powers. He knew exactly what was proper, as in the right course of action, what and when it was beneficial. If reasonable and wise words could be beneficial in that particular instance, he would speak such words. If not, he'd probably radiate metta ''goodwill'' and be on his way. 

It is likely that he was Indo-Aryan, descended from the Scythians, the Sakya clan. Genetic research shows that blue-eyes originated around the northwest coasts of the Black Sea ($URL$ which is the same region that the Scythians were allegedly from. It is also likely that the first people with blue eyes were all black-haired rather than light-haired as ancient Europeans are found to have dark-hair and blue-eyes, indicating that light hair came separately from blue-eyes and maybe more recently as well ($URL$ Where light hair comes from is still a mystery, it may have come from the Neanderthals. Modern day Europeans are likely not Aryans but Aryans admixed with Neanderthals or mutated into something else, which explains their features. It is not that uncommon to see people in modern day India and Nepal with black hair and blue eyes just as Siddhartha Gautama was described. But it is also important to note that The Buddha was against the caste system and someone's ethnicity does not make one an arahant. An arahant is someone who is free from mental effluents, pains, taints, hankers, fermentations (Âsavas). He used many arguments against the caste system in the Assalayana Sutta (MN 93) mainly arguing that good deeds are good for anyone of any caste and that bad deeds are bad for anyone of any caste, also using a clever analogy that anyone of any caste can make a fire and the fire would still be a fire with a flame regardless of the person who made the fire. 

Many look at this as statements against women but I look at it as just stating the facts about human nature. [/EDIT] Ananda was also the same one who refused to ask The Buddha to stay on Earth for an entire world-period: 

No. Hatred, even if well-reasoned and rationalized generates negative kamma and negative energy nearly the same as someone injuring their own body. 

We see that what The Buddha predicted seems to be true, the pure dhamma does not exist today, it only existed for around five hundred years. The earliest Buddhist scriptures (both Theravada and Mahayana) date to around 500 years after the death of The Buddha matching into the prediction. They were written down based on oral traditions and memory. You can clearly see that exact details are missing in the scriptures, as if something very important was lost. What survived now in modern times are vague teachings that only certain beings would be able to comprehend and understand in a useful way, not exact precise instructions. The Buddha's original teachings are lost! [EDIT] Many look at this as misogynistic but I don't think so. It is not that women cannot achieve arahantship (equal to the Buddha) it is that ordaining women and allowing women in causes the pure dhamma to disappear more quickly. The Buddha said: 

Most humans cannot perceive the dangers of sensual pleasures, so they think "what's the harm in it?". Suppose someone were to eat lots of tasty delicious desserts, while in the present they might think "what is the harm in these desserts? It tastes good", but then suppose later on their doctor informs them that they have some negative health condition because they ate so many tasty desserts and snacks. Or suppose someone was born without pain receptors and hurt themselves badly without perceiving it. In the same way humans engage in sensual pleasures thinking "there is no harm" or "what is the harm?". Humans do however see the dangers in STDs and unwanted pregnancy don't they? Because they can perceive it. Maybe a lay person might be able to overcome the negative effects of sex if they achieve higher states, with concentration. 

Continuous mindfulness is the key. You must learn to let go of that hatred. You must renounce hatred, anger, once and for all. Whenever such a thought arise ''I don't like people, I hate people'', you must be aware and know it as it is. Observe the related thoughts and feelings in an objective manner, without reacting, by simply turning, holding and sustaining your attention to what has just appeared, just at time of its duration. You must ''decondition'' the habit pattern you have created. Later on, metta will arise naturally. Or at the very least it will be quite easy to cultivate. 

Constantly remind yourself of the natural characteristics of this world. That all conditioned things are subject to change, they're ephemeral, they cannot be controlled. Therefore are unable to bring satisfaction. Remind yourself of why that is. What is the cause of this dissatisfaction? Clinging & craving, the desire to become/have or the desire for oneself/things to become extinct. Observe the grasping, observe the clinging and the results of such. You will come to realize that this very clinging is burdensome, it is oppressive. Gradually you will become disenchanted with clinging, you will become dispassionate. You will learn to let go. Clinging is like putting ones hands into the fire. With time you learn to abstain from clinging, not intellectually but through insight/wisdom. Observe your breath whenever you can, even if just for one minute at a time. Recollect the mind into focus and learn to rest with things as they are. You should also learn the correct way to practice ''anapanasati'' If you're interested in reading materials, regarding ''anapanasati'' and ''letting go''. I highly recommend these books. 

In reality there are no schools, only the Dhamma. The Dhamma is about the true nature of things, the nature of reality. In this day and age where there are many schools, traditions, contradictory views and opinions, it can get complicated for people who have not yet experienced much of the Buddha's teachings, the Buddha-Dhamma. I would not rely on any schools if I were you. Also, there are suspicious suttas and even contradictory ones. Nonetheless, the original Nikayas are the most accurate records of what the Buddha taught. But since the Buddha is not here to teach us anymore, the second best option is to listen to advice from wise teachers who have true experiential wisdom. Who they are? that will be for you to decide. Personally, I would recommend that you read from such venerable ones. Buddhadasa Bhikkhu, Ajahn Chah, Pa Auk Sayadaw , Mahasi Sayadaw. - $URL$ And these books 

There is always a cause. Moods are often caused by something physical. Unrestful sleep, toxins circulating in the brain, lack of certain hormones/nutrients etc. You can eat healthy, exercise, meditate, but ultimately these moods will come and go. You succumb to unwholesome behaviours, because of the force of habitual tendencies, reacting a certain way towards these moods. Since there is no ''controller, persona, immutable self'' we cannot simply make them go away at will. In this case ''a bad mood'' will lead to ''grief'' if not observed objectively. Patiently enduring the mood, not trying to push it away, not reacting towards it. To rest with things as they are, regardless of conditions. ''Ardent, fully aware, and mindful, having put away covetousness and grief for the world.'' As confidence in the practice grows, so will ardency. 

This question is born out of the misconception that Buddhism teaches reincarnation as in after death you can only become a human (I've seen this same question and criticism of reincarnation on many websites before), this portrayal in the media is completely wrong and inaccurate. The Buddha says: 

I've read stuff from other spiritual teachers and those who claim to be enlightened but still they don't compare to Gautama Buddha's teachings. Some may be paccekabuddhas but their teachings are limited and aren't as well-reasoned and thought-out as Gautama Buddha's. My personal experiences match in closely to what I read from The Buddha. When I concentrate I can accomplish certain things, like healing myself. I believe I've achieved at least something like the first jhana but am not sure if it's exactly what The Buddha described as the first jhana since he describes many different states (see Pancakanga Sutta). I just know that when I concentrate on destroying painful feelings or fermentations that I feel this strange energy go from my forehead to the top of my head, and if I keep trying to eliminate more fermentations I go higher and higher. What I experience then is a happiness unlike any other. I feel doubtless, fearless, sorrowless, angerless, full of confidence, calm, unstoppable, full of enjoyment, such an extreme type of enjoyment. Once I had experienced this type of enjoyment I thought this was the correct path and no other form of happiness, bliss, or enjoyment was worth pursuing. It is entirely different from the other blissful states I had experienced (like deep relaxation, or the dream-like bliss) which are like blissful states but lacking energy and enjoyment. Maybe some day I'll find out everything and the whole truth... 

But with making an end to mental fermentations, why would you be concerned about managing another's anger? Happy, angerless, fearless, doubtless, sorrowless, becomes the one who's put an end to mental fermentations, such an extreme form of pleasure. 

The answer is yes, but in a different way. Maha Brahma, Great Brahma: Maha Brahma really exists, but his existence is viewed as temporary and impermanent, He is an extremely powerful being who mistakenly believes himself to be the all-knowing all-powerful Creator of the universe, who comes into existence at the beginning of the universe: 

Rebirth is real and eventually will be proven, as is the afterlife (with heavenly and hellish worlds). As The Buddha explained: 

Being attached to the end result makes it much harder to achieve your goal. If you really want to achieve your goal you should focus on achieving it without attachment, and in ways in accordance to the goal. Just imagine how extraordinarily easy achieving a goal like this would be for someone who really was an arahant. Thus you should train yourself towards achieving the final goal. 

Since everyone has intentionally or unintentionally done evil deeds, had wrong views, etc...either now or in the past they should try to become developed in body, mind, virtue, discernment, and large-hearted. So will "all actors go to hell?" the answer is no. But will "most actors go to hell?" I'm not sure, The Buddha seems to indicate that most people in general go to the three lower destinations after death (hell, the animal realm, realm of ghosts).