The river in the middle of Val d'Avigna is described as the border between Switzerland and Austria. An earlier map from 1853 shows the same border: On a map from 1869 the border is different: 

In French we say "Belle Époque", but I don't know if there's an english equivalent. The term refers specifically to the period imediately predecessing the Great War, but there is no clear begining of the eara, it could be as early as 1871 (after the end of the Franco-Prussian war) or later. When using Wikipedia it seem the foreign language have to some extent adopted the French term, however I do not know how commonly they are used. 

For some reason I cannot find reliable source about that. Germany's population were in majority German, but there was also Frenchs in the west, Danes in the north, Lithuanians, and Poles in the east, among other minorities that would cause no problem for Germany. The problem of Frenchs fighting against France, and Lithuanians or Poles fighting against Russia where other Lithuanians and Poles also lived was an obvious problem. I am pretty sure Germany solved this by sending Poles and Lithuanians to the west front to fight France, and sent people from the west of the country toward the east to fight Russia, however I cannot find a source on this right now. Nevertheless my question is, were those people (Poles and Lithuanians on the western front, Frenchs on the eastern front) treated differently than German people (such as making them more often on the front line, and by giving them more risky missions) ? I have heard this was the case, but then again, cannot find any sources. If so, how could the German army know which soldiers were concerned, since ethnicity was not recorded in Germany, and all citizens of the German Empire were considered "German" by the government ? 

According to Cacao domestication I: the origin of the cacao cultivated by the Mayas, genetic evidence indicates that the cacao tree was cultivated from wild ancestors and improved over time. Mayans were pretty good at agriculture, beyond the slash and burn methods that were used by many other tribes in the Americas during the same time period. From Maya Agriculture 

Well, back in the 70's when I was in Army ROTC, I carried a M60 machine gun (23lbs), 4 bandoliers of blank ammo (about another 25-30lbs), maybe a grenade sim or 2, 2 canteens of water and C rations and other field gear. My total was probably around 90-100lbs. Later, in the USMC, I carried a M16 or a 9mm pistol, ammo and assorted field gear that probably weighed around 70lbs which was closer to average. Due to lighter materials, MRE's and such, the load is a bit lighter today but not by that much. The newer modular designs (MOLLE, ILBE, etc) in tactical wear make it easier to lighten the load when needed and more comfortably carry heavy loads in the 80-100lb range. British redcoats and the Roman soldiers actually carried around about the same in weight on average as today's infantry, roughly in the 60-70lbs range. However, they often carried less actual gear and supplies in quantity. The difference now is how efficiently gear can be carried and the weight and bulk of materials. 

It's part of the Greco-Roman tradition and culture that has been around roughly 5000 years. I recommend Victor Davis Hanson's Carnage and Culture for a full review of this tradition. You can find its start with various Greek philosophers and playwrights who used war and conflict as the basis for their stories. Later authors, from Plutarch to St. Augustine to Shakespeare, reflected this aspect of Western culture in their writings and influenced the popular culture of their times as much or more as the History Channel does us today. 

Disclaimer: There was two borders, one with East Prussia, and one with Germany proper. I'll describe border between Poland and East prussia going westward from Lithuania towards Dantzig; then I'll describe border between Poland and mainland Germany going southward from Dantzig down to Czechoslovakia. My sources are German maps published between 1926 and 1944, which are avialble on $URL$ and on Günter Mielczarek's website. Unfortunately maps published during the war declassed and in some cases even removed the border, so it is harder to spot - in some cases such late maps are unfortunately the only ones available; so we have to deal with that. I try to use both german and polish names when naming place, always using the modern polish name first, then a '/' symbol followed by the german name. Sometimes, nazis changed place names which sounded too slavic, in some cases I could use nazi placenames by error, since I cannot look up the history of every single village. If this happens I apoligize in advance to not use the "proper" (original) German name. Many polish placenames were changed or had their spelling affected as well, I try to use the modern polish names in all cases. In cases where the German name is extremely similar to the Polish name (like if only the spelling changed to reflect the same pronunciation) I left the German names out. The border changed several times "between world wars", in particular, Upper Silesia remained entierely German until relatively late. We of course describe them once they have stabilized. I use the following abbreviations: 

It seems the right flank of the river has been annexed by Tirol from Switzerland, on the oldest map the border follows the river and as such the valley is spit in two, from 1869 on, the border follows the summits and the valley is entierely Austrian. Modern map of the eara : $URL$ (Notice that since WW1 the land in question is part of Italian South Tirol) 

The Panzer I, the tank sent to Spain, was initially designed as an "industrial tractor" in order to get around arms controls agreements. It had a number of limitations ranging from slow speed to engine problems to inadequate armor to less effective armament. It's primary/original purpose was for the German command to teach soldiers armored warfare while not having treaty breaking armor. The Soviet built T-26 was a much better design and taken from the successful British Vickers tanks. It, like a lot of Soviet armaments, was easy to manufacture and maintain and simple for the average soldier to use. The T-34 continued this trend. The Panzer III and IV were the main battle tanks when WWII started in 1939. These tanks did well against the unprepared French and British forces. When the invasion of the USSR began, it became clear that these tanks had inferior guns. Superior armor tactics, however, gave the Germans about a 6:1 kill ratio over the Soviets. The Tiger was still in the design phase during the late 1930's. It incorporated the famous German 88mm cannon and sported heavier armor than any contemporary tank. It suffered from being so technically advanced, making it expensive to build, difficult to maintain and prone to mechanical breakdown and malfunction. It was first deployed to North Africa and the Eastern front in 1942. Due to Allied bombing and the complexity and cost, the Tiger didn't see a wide deployment. Allied tank tactics used the low numbers to their advantage through flanking maneuvers that the outnumbered Germans couldn't effectively counter. 

I did some more research using the answers provided as a guide, particularly about the Daguerreotype. I found some interesting info in this essay on the Metropolitan Museum of Art's web site: The Industrialization of French Photography after 1860. I also located this paper on photography establishments in Akron, OH between 1850-1900: $URL$ It testifies to the come and go nature of a photography studio business during the time period. Then there was this brief article about Jesse Whitehurst 

I'd name the Sonderbund War in 1848 in Switzerland. The catholic Swiss cantons attacked the protestant Swiss cantons because they wanted to separate. However, three weeks after it broke out, the cantons of Fribourg and Lucerne was successfully defeated by governmental forces and the other catholic cantons didn't want to continue to rebel. The war ended with a peace treaty that consolidated the country as a single country instead of a federation of independent states. The war did exactly 93 victims. There was also the Falklands War in 1983 in Falklands islands, opposing UK and Argentina. Some soldiers died, even horribly; However the war was short, and on both sides there was not really hatred for the enemy but rather the obligation to obey to their respective government and conquer the island. The war was too short to escalate into something really messy like it usually does, with a spiral of torture, hatred, harm to civilians, etc... This war meets pretty much all standards for "cleanness" given by the OP. There was 3 civilian victims and 904 military victims. 

Before World War 1, Poland was partitionned between Prussia, Austria-Hungary and Russia. However I have strong reasons to suspect that the word "Poland" was at that time referring specifically to the Russian partition. Example in this map, the word "Poland" is clearly written over the Russian partition, and it is very clear it is not referring to any part of Germany nor Austria-Hungary. I saw other maps where it was the same. Also, last but not least, people asking polish-related questions on Genealogy stack exchange typically ask questions referring Russia's Poland as simply "Poland", while those referring to Austrian-Hungarian or German "Poland" will refer it as "Austria-Hungary" or "Germany" respectively. 

After Nazi Germany's defeat in 1945, many Germans from former minority communities were expelled from central europe. In addition to that, two significantly large areas with German majority were cleansed of all Germans, and repopulated with people from other places. The first place is what is today western Poland, which was repopulated with poles from the Kresy, former eastern Poland and today western Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine. The second place is the Czech/formerly Austrian sudetenland, which in reality are multiple mountainous territories in Bohemia and Moravia not restricted to the Sudetes themselves that were assigned to Czechoslovakia. There was however not a very significant Czech population to settle the lands, so with whom did the Czechoslovak government repopulate those areas? I know that there was some Czechs living there before Hitler annexed the areas and were expulsed, and there was Czechs that couldn't return their homes after being freed from camps because their homes had been bombed or burned down. However were those enough to repopulate all the sudetenland ?