If I have a wheel listed as 8-10 speed Campy compatible, will a 11-speed Campagnolo cassette fit it? I seem to remember that they didn't change their standards when they moved to 11-speed, unlike Shimano and SRAM. I just don't have enough experience with Campy to say for sure. Anyone out there done this conversion and can tell me for sure? 

According to my handy-dandy tire/wheel compatibility chart, if your rim is between 17-24.9mm Inside Rim Width, that tire should work fine with your wheel. 

All I see are a Sun Ringle CR-18 and a cheap steel rim from Wheel Master. The CR-18 is definitely the stronger of those, it's a double-wall with eyelets. If you're looking for durability, those are very good. 

Someone please give me a rundown of the pros and cons of different disc brake pad materials. Resin, organic, sintered, metallic, different backing plates, etc. There are a lot of choices, and I've never gotten my head around what different pads do differently. 

It being an "unbranded crankset", I don't think anyone here could tell you that. May be a good idea to change it anyways, as usually complete bikes are specced with the cheapest compatible BB, and as that is one of the prime spinning parts of your bike, upgrading it even a little usually goes a long way. 

A tube is a sealed system. If the rubber isn't punctured and the valve is closed, there isn't anywhere that air could have gone all at once like that. The only thing I can think of is maybe you do have a small blowout tire side, and somehow the tube is sitting flush against the tire in such a way that it's holding it closed for now. May be worth taking the tire off and checking the tube itself, being prepared to replace it. Because(in the one in a billion chance that this is what happened), if that did happen, it could be hazardous to keep riding on it. 

That may very well be Chicago. Here is a guide to the different badges they used: $URL$ As I remember, the biggest giveaway was if the badge was affixed with machine screws, it was from Chicago. If it uses rivets, it's overseas. Oh, and 1982 was the last Chicago Schwinn. So if that one is 1983, you missed it by a year. 

I see two ways to release that. On the non-nutted brake arm there appears to be a groove the cable can move around in to release the barrel end from that arm. Alternatively, you can also pull a little slack in the straddle cable from both sides and un-hook it from the yoke hanger. 

Skipping like that is usually worn cassette, chain or chainring(or all 3). Considering it's only doing it in the highest gears, my first guess would have been the cassette. But since it's only a month old, it's much more likely to be the derailleur is mis-aligned just a little bit. You say the derailleur is "ever so slightly bent", that little bit can make a big difference if it's out of alignment with the gears. Also, as Criggie says in the comments, the cables "settle in" a little after about a month or 2 of riding, that's very common, and the reason most shops offer a free tuneup in the first year you own a new bike. May be worth checking to see if the shop you got it from offers one. 

Sounds like you have too much cable tension. Should be able to set it just shifting from 7/6 and back again, once it's reliably shifting up and down, the rest should be in place. then you just need to set the limit screws, and it should be good except for minor tweaks. Oh, and you said what model Derailleur you have, what shifters are you using with it? 

the BSA 1.37" on the BB lockring is for British Standard (association?) more commonly noted as BSC, for British Standard Cycle. I know these can be swapped out, but looking at the grip shifter and Nexus rear hub, those were early 80's-current, the crank is made to look like a cottered crank, but it's cotterless. I'm going to say this is more modern than it's pretending to be, grease nipple notwithstanding. I don't personally know the last time Brooks made that "hat pin" seat... Just some reference points to look at. 

I believe it is safe, as the brake's actuation isn't predicated on a flush mounting surface. The problems you are likely to run into are: 

The measurement there is known as "O.L.D." or Over-Locknut Diameter. It's the width of the opening in the frame between your dropouts, with a hub installed. So from outside-of-locknut to the opposing side outside-of-locknut on your hub. This can be measured with calipers or (more difficult but possible) with a ruler. Remember in this case you need to be very accurate in measuring, since it's either 130 or 135 millimeters, and that 5 millimeter difference is very small(about a quarter inch). If you're sure about the type of bike you have, this could be an easier way. 130mm hubs are generally only used on true road bikes(700x~20-25c). 135mm is used on Mountain or Hybrid bikes(any 26", 29", 27.5", or 700x~30-50c). Looking at Giant's website, this should be a Hybrid, and 135mm OLD. 

Can't tell. The threaded stem, cheap looking fork, along with the warning sticker on the crank not to thread the wrong side pedals in the wrong crank arm, along with the plastic chainguard on the crank, all point to it being a department store bike. 

In comments, I see you stated it is a Truvativ Crank... The description of your problem sounds like it may be a couple problems. If the bearings in the BB are worn out, it may make any kind of "clunky" feel. But what it sounds like to me is it was ridden with crank pinch bolts loose for a bit and the BB/Crankarm interface might be worn down one way or the other. It's entirely possible you may need to change out either. You said you took it to a shop, may be worth getting a 2nd opinion if you weren't happy with their answer. And this time, ask them to show you what's wrong. As a mechanic, I was never against showing people, "Here's the wear, this is why we recommend changing this". But be aware that at that point, the shop has invested time and money(in employee wages) in that repair. Don't get the answer from the shop, then do the work yourself. No shame in supporting your local shop when you can't diagnose a problem yourself. 

This option might be more money than it is worth. This option as well might be more money than it is worth ... But the question is ... HOW much does this bother you? 5 gallons of paint worth of bother? Hahah. 

$URL$ This service .pdf indicates that you need 15x26x7 bearings. I did a quick search on Enduros website and they don't appear to make this size in ceramic. A quick web search came up with one option that I could (quickly) find. $URL$ Typically, in my experience, the bearing manufacturers are not going to say that they have a kit for a WTB LaserDisc Lite hub. They simply make bearings of a given size and if they are what you need, great. What the .pdf doesn't specify is what size the freehub body bearings are. It gives a part number for replacement as a UNIT but does not break it down into its finer parts. Read further along in the .pdf and they do indicate that you can replace the bearings from the freehub quite easily. My recommendation is taking them out, measuring them w/ a vernier caliper and then doing a quick search to see if you can acquire a ceramic version. Hopefully this helps a bit. 

Before answering your question I will add the caveat that without seeing your problem and without knowing the exact spec of the bike, this 'quote' could be wrong. For one, you might not have replaceable chainrings. But, assuming you do have replaceable chainrings the cost would be somewhere around 30-35$ (10$ labor, 20-25$ for chainring) depending on the quality of the chainring (shift ramps/machining/material). It could be much more if you were to be using something like Shimano XTR or SRAM XX. A way to see if they are replaceable is to inspect the crankset and find either chainring bolts holding the chainrings on or rivets holding it together. If it is riveted the shop might use a slotted screwdriver or a set of channel locks, if possible, to bend the chainring back into place. This depends on the amount of clearance provided by the other chainrings. If that is not possible then they might have to remove the crank arm and hammer it straight using a mallet. With those possibilities in mind it might run you 10-20$ for the fix. When going to your LBS be sure to identify the issue you want solved and express that you simply want that one problem solved. Often the reason a problem fixed seems more expensive than it should is that the mechanic has to spend the time IDing the issue. Time is money in any business. By identifying the problem right away you have saved time and therefore money. Be sure to get a quote before leaving the bike. I believe the cause for your bent chainring has been addressed already. Starting from a half shift or shifting under load can cause this. The less expensive the drive train the more likely it is for this to happen. A riveted crankset w/ stamped chainrings will bend quite easily while a more expensive crankset with replaceable chainrings that are not of the stamped variety will be more resistant to bending. As a note, I am in Canada ... therefore this prices might not be entirely reflective of the prices in your specific area. 

First, do you have cycling shorts w/ a chamois? If not, I would highly recommend them. As a note, they are your underwear (ex: do not wear undergarments and then put on the shorts). Second, how did you choose your saddle? Was it fitted through some type of measurement system ala bontragers inform system or specializeds BG system? How much did you spend on the saddle and was it appropriate for the style of riding you are partaking in? Third, does your bicycle fit you properly? Have you had it fitted? So, there are a few points that you could answer to give me some help. I cannot recommend a saddle because everyone is different but I can recommend a brand that provides some type of measurement system for choosing your saddle. As well, if you are wearing cycling shorts a nice chamois butter might help with the chafing. 

Hydraulics for your drop bar bike might be difficult to acquire. I believe that someone made a cable actuated hydraulic brake ... it was downright terrible. The clamp on adaptors are in my experience a nightmare. They allow for greater vibration and therefore terrible noises. First, check your bike for disc tabs. If it doesn't have them you could have them welded onto your frame by a local builder. As well this could be your opportunity to upgrade your bike. Haha. As well it might be cheaper to simply purchase a new fork rather than have tabs welded on. Who knows? Second, check your wheels. Do you have disc hubs? If not you will minimum have to rebuild your wheels with a new hub. Ensure that you can build the wheels in a nice dependable 3 cross pattern to resist wind up. Again, this might be the time to get a nice new set of wheels. Or the opportunity you have been looking for to start building your own wheels. Thirdly, what shifters do you have? Does your crosscheck have barcons w/ independent brake levers or STI style shifters? If you have STI style shifters then AVID makes a bb7 road disc caliper. This caliper has had the pull adjusted to accommodate road set ups. If your setup features independent brake levers for the calipers the road bb7 is your best choice as well. That's about all I've got for you. If I can think of more ... I'll be back. 

You would have to change to a new crankset*, I would recommend a road triple for this (52/42/30), and acquire a road triple front derailleur that was suitable for a flat bar shifter. Shimano makes the 2200 crankset which is quite affordable and will (I believe ... chainline might come into effect here) not necessitate a new bottom bracket. In my experience the FD-R443 derailleur (a road triple, for flat bar) works very well with this set up. Can I now ask, why do you want a bigger chainring? My experience is people jump the gun on needing larger gears (unless your rides are almost entirely all downhill) and tend to push a much larger gear than necessary. I have found that alot of commuters and casual cyclists ride with a cadence of ~70 rpm. By making the assumption you are doing such, 15-25 rpm would show vast improvements in bike speed and would garner you greater cardio benefits. As well I would then assume, unless you are a highly trained athlete, that you will not spend a huge amount of time riding 48/11 @90 rpm. Do you have a good set of clip in style pedals and shoes? This will help you work, in my experience, on your pedal stroke. By working first and foremost on your pedal stroke you will improve your muscle recruitment, improve your climbing (able to push the pedal over the top and scrape it across the bottom) and in general increase your average speeds. Anyways, my two cents. *When I say 'have to' I am referring to maintaining a semblance of smooth shifting. The reality is you can typically jury rig whatever you want and it often works. But it won't be smooth and it can be more of a pain in the arse than it is worth.