But, you provide a stipulation that may make this a little easier: the light limit. Science Focus tells us that the smallest discrepency in visual data the human eye can perceive is two points that are 0.01 degrees apart in the field of vision. Therefore, the tunnel must bend less than 0.01 degrees over the proposed 20 meters visual range. Therefore, the tunnel would need to be (360/0.01)*20 meters in length, or 720 kilometers. This will put the inner radius at about 115 kilometers. Have fun walking! EDIT For completeness sake: In humans, visual resolution at point blank range (comparatively the only one that matters) is up to a factor 1000 times higher than tactile resolution. Therefore, any solution to this problem that will fool the eye will fool the hand (which, if in doubt, a coarse wall texture will resolve this without this extra data). Auditory spatial resolution is even lower, so echo will not be an issue. 

As someone who medically lacks depth perception, I can assure you there's several ways your brain learns to automatically compensate: Scale of distant objects gets matched to the 'known' scale of such objects to roughly get the distance. 

Even today there are parts of the world that remain unexplored by 'civilised' peoples, because we've conceded that others have ownership of these areas. If these others consider the area holy, no man will ever tread there. 

Due to effects of lightwave interference, another light source passing through the laser COULD make it visible, but barely so (and certainly not as a line). A laser-like weapon such as superexcited matter is a far more likely candidate. 

The main issue you seem to be neglecting are the carriers of pollution. Flows of water and air and even the local rotational velocity of the earth (higher closer the equator) are vital factors in determining your answer. Air and water flows are mostly governed by climate and geographical features (which all in turn also influence each other, of course. Nobody said this would be simple). Interestingly, in real life many factories have smokestacks SO high that it is no problem at all for the communities they are serving, but the pollution actually comes down hundreds of kilometers away to cause smog. If your climate, flows and geography are relatively neutral and we ignore friendly-neighbor-policy smokestacks we can (greatly) simplify our models by assuming all plants pollute in a perfect circle with quadratic fall-off based on distance. At this point the model is so simple, unfortunately, that real-life data simply fails to accomodate. This does lend itself to heatmapping the area, and you can still use recorded smog and water polution levels in real life cities as reasonable benchmarks for tolerance. 

In that case the only answer to your question here is: A whacky "one time zone" world would would signal to the reader a very strong, overbearing, somewhat ridiculous centralized government... (Note that, simply, China currently does this: it's an overbearing, "centralized government" move - a holdover from their overbearing, "centralized government" days!) So for example, in the movie Brazil, or perhaps the classic book 1984, it would be a plot point if the nutcase world government in question, established "one time zone worldwide!" (for "planetary unity and order!") 

Say you're paying 10 million a year tax. All you have to do, is have four children ............... and you now pay basically no tax!! (You only pay the modest baseline $1m a year.) For the profoundly rich who pay 100s of millions a year in tax, it would be insane to not have four children: every single truly rich person would have four children: it would be absolutely ridiculous to not do so. As mentioned above - especially - death taxes are the truly hated thing amongst the rich. Consider tycoons with a wealth measured in the billions. When they die, basically the government takes most of it. By simply having four children, they get to keep ALL of their money (ie, the inheritors get it all, the government gets nothing). The above system would certainly and absolutely ensure that everyone who pays more than, say, about $2m a year in tax, would, almost certainly have four children - it would be crazy not to. 

Note. OP's question was not clear if the travelers were "instantly" transported in an FTL sense. If the travelers are instantly transported, then as I explain it's trivial. If OP means moving billions of years in time, the question is meaningless. (There's no way whatsoever to predict where everything was/will be over huge time periods.) 

Regarding point 1, of course - obviously - you might need staggeringly big rockets and other astounding engineering difficulties. (You may well need fusion! or anti-matter! engines to make huge amounts of electricity - whatever. You would surely need some sort of astounding laser technology to blast out of the way any micro-particles in front of you - etc etc.) Once again, thanks Einstein - any speed at all, whatsoever, is identical to no speed at all. There is absolutely no difference between speed and no speed. (Note that indeed our planet (indeed, our galactic group) is whipping along at an astounding speed; when we take off to the moon we just "add speed" - the "original" (staggering) speed of the planet means absolutely nothing.) Speed and no-speed are the same. In contrast - point 2 - traveling at light speed (or higher) is utterly and totally different, requiring utterly new base mathematical concepts, totally and completely unknown to us. 

So, space mines aren't primarily meant to knock out invaders. They are meant to funnel invaders into the safe zones where they can be shot by active systems. If your defense makes the bad guys go away without attacking, you win. If it makes them come at your strong points head-on, probably you win. I probably got most or all of this from David Weber's Honorverse books, so go read. 

That's not the nature of heroes. A hero doesn't want to rule; he wants things to be right. That things which should be done, are done, and things which should not be done, are not. He makes it so. He doesn't think he is special. Talk with any real-life hero and you'll always hear it: "I only did what anybody would do." The hero would like to just be ordinary and competent, and live in peace, never even thinking about whether there is a king somewhere, but things keep coming up and he has to deal with them because, well, that's what you do when things come up. As for the ruler who wants to use a hero to conquer the world, he runs a grave risk: the hero may ponder his orders and decide that his king has become evil, and thus sadly the hero must now destroy him. 

Like others, I think [wave hands] gravity tech. will do. But you want details. Put the machinery inside a spherical, one-way radiator. There is no gravity inside, so the machinery isn't crushed by its own weight. (It is inaccessible. This star contains no user-serviceable parts.) Also provide antigrav. bracing inside the radiator so it isn't crushed by the effective weight of the fuel above. (Maybe it is two-way: tractor outside, pressor inside. Maybe they know tricky ways to make gravitons spin, or something, so the two effects nearly balance and the net energy input is small for a star.) The machine uses monstrous amounts of energy which just happen to be the amount of thermal radiation heading inward, so it stays cool. I suppose the radiator was sized to make this happen. No, I don't know how they achieve 100% conversion. Sizing. Orbital period determines the altitude. Temperature of the photosphere determines the spectrum, which they will want to specify. I think temperature also determines the output per unit surface which, together with the desired level of insolation and the altitude, should tell you the necessary size of the photosphere. I have no idea what the math looks like for any of this. Is it practical? What is the strength of tidal forces from an object with that surface gravity at that distance? How often do they have to drop another gigaton of H2 on it to keep it fueled? (How big is its fuel supply anyway? Where do they get it?) What are the safety margins you need in order to avoid roasting the planet due to a control hiccup? How much gamma and particle radiation does it deliver to the planet's surface? 

Diverging/converging lines provide perspective. Truly, how does your depth perception work when viewing something on a flat screen which was shot with one 'eye' (camera)? It really isn't as debilitating as could be thought! 

LOOTING! You need to get on the ship to gather up the booty efficiently, lest it all just scatter into space. It'd still be possible to collect in that state, but much more cumbersome. 

Depending on the type of post-apocalypse you're working with, an unexpectedly great need may stem from consumables that can no longer be produced due to the waning of industry. In a simple example that always comes up: Ammo. There is a limited and always dwindling supply of it. Therefore, its value will continuously go up with only minor bumps in the opposite direction as new caches are discovered. Turning it on its head, your reality could function in this way on a variation of the gold standard: Any small portable object that can no longer be produced but is never consumed, and exists in relatively large quantities. An example of such a currency is the bottlecaps in the Fallout universe, which are accepted for exactly the reasons above. 

TL;DR: Really, really big (exact numbers below) Seeing the wall "crossing" is hardly the issue. Seeing the outer wall bend even slightly toward the inner wall - looking as if the hallway gets narrower further on - and the point at which that visually happens moving ahead at the rate at which you are moving already breaks the illusion of a straight surface. That is not to say it cannot be done, but it is made much harder by the fact that you have TWO surfaces that need to appear to have the flat trait and appear parallel to each other. Apart from the above, this is what is known as a horizon problem. Imagine the logical alternative: instead of building your round corridor on a flat plane, you build it along the axis of the planet. Depending on the height of your corridor, even this will be noticeable after even a short while. It will likely have a much lower ceiling than for example a tunnel meant for cars, and the horizon problem is actually a structural concern for the longest of those already. 

A plot point might be that the rebels use "rebel local time" just to make a point how ridiculous the Empire is. 

It's trivial: our observable universe, in fact contains only a few very large structures, which are easily identifiable. You'd just look for and identify the sloan great wall, the Bootës void, and the 3 or 4 biggest superclusters. (Obviously, this would take incredible telescopes and a few years.) {Note that we already have "incredible telescopes". Read up on Europe's GAIA space scope, which is pure "sci-fi".} Vashu has already included in his answer and overall map of our observable universe, which shows how obvious it is. 

Say you are going any speed, whatsoever. Any speed. To go faster, you simply attach a rocket at the back and light a match. Once again, no matter what speed you are going, to go faster you just fire a rocket. There is utterly no difference whatsoever, at all, in the fundamentals. Regarding travel at light speed, like a photon (or faster than light speed). This is simply utterly impossible, based on our current deepest understanding of mathematics. 

a handful of rebels would scoff at the idea as one of the ridiculous notions instituted by the Empire; most would just go along running the concentration camps. In any totalitarian society the majority just mindlessly go along and do what they're told. 

The only thing that would matter is the moment of inertia tensor. (Which physicists and engineers often just call the "moment" usually.) $URL$ There's no other consideration, at all: since there is no air resistance. (It's surprising nobody else has pointed this out.) Note the excellent example animated-gif of four rolling objects on that wikipedia page. Depending on your desired strategic approach, your engineers would create objects with different moments of inertia. (Each would have different advantages - consider an ice skater pulling in her arms during a spin.) In space nobody can hear you scream, there is no surface effect physics, no viscosity physics (aerodynamics, etc) - but there is your moment tensor. Which changes everything and is the "whole" design.