Looks like a fossil coral, possible similar to the ones seen here, classified as Lithostrotionella, or Lithostrotions From Wikipedia 

So bottom line is that it is easier to measure the amount of change, then to calculate direct figures concerning how much actual water was involved in causing that change. Hope this helped. Update: There is some specific data on another page of the Nasa site concerning the volume of water being generated by the melt of the Greenland Ice Sheet: 

An article on the National Geographic site discusses the relationship between the ocean air temperature and the monsoons in India: 

In school, I was acquainted with the Moh's hardness scale. I wondered how malleability factors into this scale and was surprised to find there are many different hardness scales: the Rockwell scale, the Leeb scale, the Vickers, the Meyer, and I'm sure others. What are all the different hardness scales? And, which ones are used in Earth Science? 

I would like to know how to calculate how much water fell on California during, for instance, the mid-February 2017 flood. I know how to look up the total rainfall at a specific weather station. And, given a meteorological model output, I could calculate the total water precipitated over some area. However, I don't know of any standard method (using observations) to calculate total cumulative water fallen over some area. I've seen multi-station precipitation indexes like the one shown below. But, I don't know how to use that to calculate total water that has fallen to the ground. Based on observations, how can we calculate the total cumulative water volume (or mass) that has fallen on a large area during a storm? And, using that method, can we calculate how much water fell on California during the 2017 February flooding events? The only thing I can think of is to use the rainfall measurements at every station, interpolate across the area of interest, and then integrate. Though, that seems like quite an intensive GIS project. Is there a better,standardized way to make the calculation? 

Seems to me the creation of soil may be largely due to the effects of winter. If not for the seasonal death and decay of part of plants exposed to winter conditions, soils would be less rich. Look at the soils in the tropical rain forest areas, which area relatively poor in nutrients, in comparisons to the rich dark soils of the great plains, where winter temperatures kill the surface plants, but reintroduce that vegetation into the soil to aid the growth of the soil for the next seasons growth. Another important aspect for winter is the snow, which, besides providing skiers with entertainment, provides moisture which, being retained in the snowpack late into the spring and summer, and allows life to flourish into regions which would otherwise receive little or no precipitation in the summer months. 

My question is, what are the relative contributions of Saturn and Jupiter to the orbital eccentricity of the Earth? Do the Trojan Asteroids also factor into the eccentricity of our orbit? Finally, what is the temperature change we can expect on Earth due to changes in eccentricity of Earth's orbit around the sun (e.g. the long-term climate cycle)? 

Try Windy.com It looks very similar to the EarthWindMap, but appears to offer more controls. It is simple to change the heights and what variables are of interest. 

It seems that the CO2 fertilization has been over-estimated in past studies. From Nature Climate Change article,Large divergence of satellite and Earth system model estimates of global terrestrial CO2 fertilization by W. Kolby Smith, Sasha C. Reed, Cory C. Cleveland, Ashley P. Ballantyne, William R. L. Anderegg, William R. Wieder, Yi Y. Liu & Steven W. Running 

Bark Beetles. The deep chambers are the 'nuptial' chambers where the larvae hatch. If you zoom in close you can see the small trails leaving the edges of the deep cuts, as well as the numerous larger paths swirling all around. Some drawings in this paper show the particular 'hook' pattern on some of your images. I haven't found the exact species however. UPDATE: Found the species: Fir Engraver Scolytus ventralis LeConte According to this US Department of Agriculture-Forest Service document: 

So in a region which is warmer, both air and ocean temperature, this monsoon effect is apparently predicted to be altered accordingly, resulting in either a higher precipitation, or longer duration to the wet cycle, to effectively make this region wetter than it is today. Without knowing more about how the models were derived, this is just speculation however. 

The short answer is, $\ce{O2}$ is all around us! You aren't breathing the $\ce{O2}$ that the trees next to you are respirating (at least not much). No matter which way the wind is blowing, you will have sufficient oxygen content. A "can't breathe" feeling comes from inhaling pollutants or extremely dry air (in which case you need to drink more water). Unless, of course, you are so far up in the atmosphere that there is simply less atmosphere to breathe (e.g. lower atmospheric pressure). As you can see in the image below, the $\ce{O2}$ molecule abundance in the atmosphere is a giant reservoir that extends far up into the atmosphere. $\ce{O2}$ and $\ce{N2}$ are evenly mixed throughout the entire atmosphere, even beyond the stratosphere. Thus, the abundance of oxygen in the lower atmosphere is not really a local phenomenon. Most of the free oxygen available is due to ancient oceanic phytoplankton, and they are still producing! While there are fluctuations in the oxygen abundance of the atmosphere on a geological time scale, there is no shortage of $\ce{O2}$ since there is an overwhelming amount of production. For a quantitative breakdown of the oxygen production/consumption, see $URL$ 

and @John provided a link to an image (from westcoastseaglass.com) of the red variety for a better comparison: 

Yeddo seems to be a version of Edo, which is today Tokyo. Though it has had its share of disasters, nothing seems to come up concerning any storms in the 1864. Fires and earthquakes seem the more typical catastrophes. A horrible fire in 1857 seems to be the closest event timewise that I find. It was apparently still in existence in 1868: 

Since you asked for an intuitive explanation, my thoughts would be that due to predicted increasing sea and global temperatures, the models used might be predicting a corresponding increase in monsoonal moisture or duration. From Climate of India : 

Old faithful still erupts regularly, but at some point conditions in geology will change and it will cease activity. Wikipedia says that ~1300 geysers have erupted in Yellowstone, but only 1/3 of those are active in a given year. Do geysers typically go dormant for long periods of time? How long do they typically stay active before going extinct? 

It is the warmth of the atmosphere that you feel on your skin. The atmosphere is warmed from the surface of the Earth. Visible light from the sun hits the surface of the Earth and some of it is absorbed, causing the Earth's surface to warm, which is re-radiated as infrared light and is then blanketed by our atmosphere. Without the atmosphere, the temperature of Earth's surface would be much colder and have a much more dramatic diurnal cycle. 

I don't know if this helps, but since you have no response yet perhaps I can offer some thoughts.Your question is problematic due to the fact that volume itself is variable according to the temperature of the water. If you look at the Nasa site concerning sea level change: 

Another source, The Lakes Handbook: Lake Restoration and Rehabilitation edited by Patrick O'Sullivan, C. S. Reynolds, (pg 179) agrees with this figure (emphasis mine): 

From the texture shown, I would look at sea or beach glass. This article in Wikipedia on Sea Glass shows some similar features: 

The picture below (same source) showing the rounding and frosting effects on some of the more common green and white colors. 

The best solution to this type of problem would be to desalinate all excess water at shorelines. This could be done with desalination plants that use their own energy produced from tidal/wave generators. There are plenty of empty reservoirs in the world that would be happy to take any excess water that is desalinated. I'm assuming if we can build transcontinental pipelines for oil.. we can do it for water. 

There is no technology that makes air pollution disappear on such a large scale after it has already been emitted into the atmosphere. However, timing burns so that air quality impacts are minimized is possible if meteorology is considered. If there is a meteorological forecast that mixing heights will be low, a "burn ban" should be put in place. If mixing heights are expected to be high and/or the wind direction is expected to blow away from the city, then burning could be allowed with minimized effects on air quality in the densely populated areas. This type of practice is used in the USA in various states. 

This does give you some approximations in gallons per year of one of the main contributors to the sea level rise. 

An older travel book (1855),A Handbook for Travellers in Spain: Andalucia, Ronda and Granada, Murcia ... By John Murray (Firm), Richard Ford discussing the site says: 

(some nice graphics here showing change amounts) This expansion due to warming literally changes the volume of the water, adding to the sea level rise. So glacial melt may be measured or estimated, but the change in sea level caused by this volume of water is variable; over time it will change temperature and expand. But this isn't straightforward either. Nasa again: