Are there more volcanos in Ecuador he climbed first? Did he first summit on his trips to the Canadian Rockies too? Would love to get a complete list or even more infos/links for this great mountaineer. 

To explain this a bit, we think of two layers or flat walls which interact only due to thermal conduction. This is just a model and in reality other effects will come in play. The Fourier Law for thermal conduction (relative to the surface) of one layer states: 

I don't know if anybody uses this to rapell without backup (e.g. on top of a climb). But if so I would like to have some idea how secure this setup will be. 

Not only, but mainly while bouldering you are likely to push hard moves and strain your body onesided. As a consequence you can pain your muscles, ribbons or tendons. But... 

What's the limitation here? Back in the old days there were no climbing boots available so rock climbers used boots (maybe enhanced with metal plates). Also in icy terrain this was the case. Even when Eiger Northface was climbed first not all party members had crampons. (people also climbed barefoot very steep and tough rock routes, even today some are doing this) So it is possible to climb steep without the high-tech equipment we are blessed to be able to play around with today. If you want a maximum slope angle where typical hiking is healthy this depends highly on your physique. So I would say there is no formula or something like that to answer your question. 

R is the universal gas constant which is constant. M is the molar mass. For water M=18 g/mol and for dry air M=29 g/mol. That means the higher the fraction of water vapor in the air and therefore the humidity is, the lower the overall molar mass. That being said, the higher your gas temperature (mix of air and water vapor) and/or your humidity is, the lower will be the density. You can also read here. 

Last year I was taught an approximation by a mountaineer guide. It is an average and worked quite well for me. Of course you need adaption for alpine tours (3000m+), physical condition, weather, extremely rough paths and so on. The rule is: 

Edit: Now that I can also see your other pics it really looks like the lower part of the ice axe fixing system is missing. Still the official notes say you can attach ice axes... You can also check out this video, which gives interesting information. I have the pack and already used the fixing system Steve House is representing there. 

Ordinary vegetable oils of the type used for cooking will work but are not ideal. Over time they will gradually oxidise and may be colonised by bacteria, both of which can cause them to become acidic which can itself cause corrosion of the metal. Also vegetable oils can become gummy and sticky in quite a short period of time. Oils help to prevent corrosion by excluding moisture and oxygen from the metal surface. All metals will form a thin layer of oxide on the surface and oil etc can penetrate into this, helping to stabilise it and prevent destructive corrosion. It's also worth adding that carbon steels will naturally form a blue/grey layer of oxide on the surface and this is not necessarily a bad thing as it can provide a porous surface which can be pretty durable when stabilised with oil or wax. The best protective oil for a given situation will depend exactly on what you want to achieve. A light oil like 3-in-1 or gun oil is easy to apply and remove and can also be useful as a cleaning agent to remove wood resin etc from a blade. The downside is that its relatively low viscosity means that the protective film formed isn't very durable and so may not be ideal for long term storage or protection during use. Wax like renaissance wax or simply rubbing with a candle will give a more durable protective film but may need more care in applying to get a thorough coating. Wax can also help to lubricate saws. Another alternative is grease, this is easy, if potentially messy to apply but should give very good long term protection during storage as it can form a much thicker layer than oil. There are specialist greases for storing metal items which also contain active additional corrosion inhibiting ingredients, although these can be difficult to remove before use. Grease tends to be most useful if something needs to be stored for a significant time in bad conditions. There is also the consideration that if a tool is to be used for food preparation any protective coating should be reasonably food-safe. There are also a range of other substances such as silicone or PTFE based greases which can provide some protection from rusting and are available in spray on form or as impregnated cloth wipes. Some of these are intended to leave a dry film which is less prone to attracting dirt and grit and may be an advantage for tools such as folding knives with exposed moving parts and bearings. Overall I would say : 

There isn't really a safe way to do this. The problem is that you have no way to tell how deep the water/mud ahead of you is and there is always the risk of getting entangled in submerged holes, branches or other obstructions, plus marshes tend to have viscous mud or silt at the bottom whcih can suck at your feet making walking tiring and greatly increases the risk of stumbles and slips. 'Quicksand' is a familiar cliche but it is a real risk and even apparently firm ground in tidal or swampy areas can be a dangerous trap for the unwary. There is also the very real risk that you could twist an ankle or break your leg, quite apart from the fact that it is easy to underestimate the physical demands of walking through this sort of terrain and you could become exhausted some distance from a safe place at which hypothermia and exhaustion become very real dangers. If you do want to explore this sort of terrain the best advice is to seek a local guide who knows the area very well and travels through it regularly. In general shallow draft boats are the only really safe means of transport in swamps and marshes, unless there are prepared paths established. In an emergency when you have no other choice you should proceed with great caution. Use a long stick to probe the ground ahead of you, feeling for depth and any submerged hazards. Also make sure that your pack is held over one shoulder only so you can quickly discard it if you fall and if at all possible line it with a large plastic bag or similar so that it can act as a flotation aid. 

There are different kind of obstacles so that farm animals like cows on alpine pastures stay in the related territory. If you hike, you often pass little doors or Z-shaped wooden obstacles or have to lift gates. For dirt roads this is similar, the cattle needs to be restricted so e.g. with a "Weiderost". In comparison to a gate you can always overcome the bars by car, but cattle and sheep aren't likely to overcome. So they are often build on roads for agricultural use or the kind, where they have to drive by regularly. 

While reading Hermann Buhl's tour book* of the Nanga Parbat expedition in 1953 (yielding to the first ascent on third of July, Buhl did the final ascent solo) I got curious about the height difference he made and therefore created following plot: 

Adding following: If you go several times and have this (or another) rule in mind, you can adapt it accordingly. For example I am tending more to 500m ascent instead of 400m. Going downhill I noticed that I only need half of the time I needed for the same path uphill. This will also differ a lot for different style of hikers/mountaineers. 

For me it seems to be more a fashion thing than extremely useful. Of course you can clip the mug to the outside of your backpack or anywhere on the campside but I doubt you really need this. Nevertheless, you can upgrade nearly anything in outdoor business with a biner - it's just cool and you look like a real outdoorsman with all the handy carabiners ;) Your idea of being able to re-use the biner isn't bad. But than you still need a good way to attach it to the mug. Those "material carabiners" (don't know if this is the proper translation, I mean carabiners which aren't designed to climb on!) are very light, but still it would be cool to be removable in terms of pack size of the whole mug. 

I recently made a sport climbing course mainly to give it a try and also to learn something about belaying in general. It's fun, challenging and I got hooked quite a bit. Overall I was around 10 times in the climbing gym yet. I want to get better of course. I am 1,84m and thin, indeed my arms/hands/fingers aren't very strong yet... 

source If you have an efficient outer wind impermeable shell, your inner fleece layers will warm you even when they are wet. Therefore it's better to wear something, even if you sweat due to activity. Still you won't feel that comfortable with wet clothes. 

The most important thing for a firesteel striker is that it is hard and has a 'crisp', although not necessarily sharp edge. Stainless steel knives tend not to work quite so well as plain carbon steel ones. In general when you use the back of a knife as a firesteel it needs to be ground with a well defined square edge to the spine. Carbon steel files work extremely well and emery paper is pretty good (although a bit less durable than other alternatives) so the emery boards sold for filing nails should be a good option. Short lengths of hacksaw blades can be effective as well. Using an abrasive rather than a blade also has the advantage of being a bit safer for teaching. Emery paper or boards, tend to produce more sparks and are, in some ways, easier to use than a scraper type striker (eg the back of a knife). The difference is that emery does not 'throw' big fat sparks in the same way as a scraper so a slightly different technique is required. One good method is to wrap a strip of tinder around the tip if the rod and hold it in place by gripping it near the end. 

An alternative you might want to consider is taking a model/diorama making kit. This is a technique widely used by the military, especially for infantry and SF platoon and section commanders. Although it is a bit of extra faff it makes explaining complex plans on real geography much much easier and is definitely worth the effort. The simplest method is just using improvised materials but a small kit can make the job much easier. In this particular case I would suggest. 

Food When you're backpacking meals can be an important highlight of the day so if you find that morale is an issue it may be that having better food helps. This may involve carrying a bit of extra weight but even simple tings like sauces and spices can help a lot. It can also be that people aren't used to eating and drinking enough when they are walking and so get tired and hungry during the day. Here adding extra food meals to the day and packing easy to east snack can help. Weight It may be worth weighing packs and distributing the load according to ability, fitness and experience. Inexperienced hikers will tend to both pack more and be less used to carrying weight so sharing out individual pack weight may make everybody happier and help to even out pace. Objectives Try to get a sense of what individuals want to get out of a trip, some like walking for its own sake, some enjoy being in a natural environment and others want a physical challenge. If you have mixed motivation in your group try to reconcile the differences Route planning Severe up and down hill routes can be difficult even for reasonably fit people who are unused to walking Involvement Give people responsibilities to think about. Playing follow the leader is always less interesting than being an active part of an expedition. Eg if you are leading an inexperienced group let them take turns to navigate (even let them make small mistakes) and get the whole group involved in route planning and decision making.