It were 2 strings of my hair inside the sink's hole almost washed down but wrapped around litter others leave. Bathroom... is completely dirty. I hate coming there, but have no other choice. All my proposals are ignored, the company doesn't bother with cleaning. It wasn't a problem while we didn't have company's WCs (and it was also a mess). I do clean after myself. But I'm on a verge of vomitting just thinking of doing it after others. I work in separate, just mine, office room and I clean my desk and stuff every week. Also, after reading SE, I got myself one spare mouse "for guests". Beside the dirtiness, it's a very good company and people. Right now I just can't afford leaving. At least for several months. And I am really pessimistic about it... 

I don't know about European/USA practices, but in Russia the most of available vacancies for juniors are like this one. 1-3 years of work experience, long list of requirements. Personally, I think it's wrong way to find an applicant, but the employers and recruiters think, that this way they can get both experienced and graduates for the same position to choose from. They want to assemble as many of them as they can to select the best. That doesn't necessarily imply you'll encounter all of it at work. It's common for mid-sized or micro companies and usually means you will be wearing many hats. Therefore you shouldn't look at requirements at all. Just send your CV. But, again, it really upsets young job-seekers like you (and me not so long ago). 

Office manager saw my hair in basin in WC. It accidentally felt inside and has been partly washed away while I was washing my hands. She contacted me by Skype and asked to clean it in the future. Now I'm confused what to tell her. Circumstances: our company has started to rent an entire floor, so all the WCs there are in their responsibility now. They didn't hire a cleaning company or person and don't plan to. Only office kitchen gets cleaned once a several months. Other office rooms hasn't been cleaned for a year so far. Although I agree we should keep office clean, I feel strong revulsion at being forced to dig into the basins each time I wash hands. There is no equipment or disinfectant liquids to perform such manipulations, not even spare paper (company bought electronic hand drier to save money on that and everything else). I can't stop my hair falling even though I comb it regularly. My responsibility, which is written in office regulations and I agree with, is to keep my desk clean. I don't mind because I'm the only one using it. I'm usually not conflicting person, but this goes overboard in my opinion. I'm planning to disagree with her. The problem is I'm a bit socially awkward, our Office manager tends to be unprofessional with the stuff. She is often rude and talkative while I'm shy and can't find proper words to answer on time. So I haven't been able to come up with some lines besides "Should I clean the carpets too? My hair is also falling while I'm walking, I bring soil from the outside as well". We are somehow on good terms (but not so good to blatantly tell her this). Other women' hair also occurs there (we are just 5 females in IT company beside this manager), they leave coffee/tea and other lumps in basins. But I can't simply approach and ask them "What would you tell her in my situation?", because other employees are arguing aggresively and openly (I can't choose this option) with her or ignoring completely. Am I right thinking like that? What other people do with their falling hair? How to tell her I won't clean the basins in a most professional way? Update. 

In my company we still use Skype for internal purposes. One client can have many projects and each of them can have one or more chats (sometimes my list can easily contain dozens of them). Even if you turn off notifications, those chats are always going up and down, blinking, making it harder to look for current projects info (another dozens of chats). Usually when you are being assigned to another client, a manager of former project excludes you from chats of their responsibility. The last time I switched projects one of the managers didn't exclude me from his group chats and recently one of those became so annoying I left it and others by myself. A few moments later a manager of one of the most annoying project's chat said that I was rude and said to just turn off the sound and never leave the conversations. I left that project 2 months ago and will never ever come back to it. The manager was one of the many and not a senior one. We have no internal regulations on this regard and I never had such problems before. But now it bothers me if he really was right. Are there any rules of etiquette that apply in my situation? 

I find that the difficulty here is that it seems people are calling your work phone, and are being transferred to your cell without necessarily knowing it. (Tell me if I am wrong, because the rest of the answer depends on it). They are not responsible for you getting those calls, and therefore are not expecting you to be anything different from when you are answering from the office. Before your calls were being transferred, you would not be here to pick up the phone, so people would leave a message or send an email, or whatever. Because of that, it is OK to not answering your phone. It will be just as before your calls were being transferred, and as if they were not transferred anymore. The only issue is with people who got used to call you and get an answer anytime. Go back to the receptionist and make it clear that you will not answer professional calls on your personal cell, and transferring the call will simply be a waste of time for everybody. Possibly advise your manager that you have been receiving professional calls on your cellphone, but that you won't be answering them anymore. (Also, do what enderland says. Ask people to email requests whenever you pick up the phone. Maybe install an IT ticketing system. Talk to your manager about this, and about how getting calls all day long impedes your productivity.) 

Split the task you have been asked to do in subtasks. Estimate how long each task should take. If any task is either hard to evaluate or longer than, say 2 days, split it again. Once you have a list of small tasks, re-evaluate to make it consistent. Add whatever margin needed to make you feel confident (e.g. x2 every estimate) Group you subtasks in deliverable features of possible, then give a schedule to the PM. This planning work is usually done in collaboration with the team, the team lead and with input from the PM, though (to split in features, and give priority to these). 

One place where I worked had a "headphones on" policy where you are not supposed to disturb someone who has their headphones on. It may or may not work, as some people have their headphones on even when they are available, and others can focus without headphones. Other than that, without any explicit DND sign, someone in an open space should expect to be interrupted at any time, so you can just walk to them. 

Don't You don't know for a fact what will happen in a year. No matter how strongly you feel about leaving next year, it may or may not happen. You may change your mind. You may find yourself enjoying your work and delaying your trip. You may meet someone who convinces you to stay where you are. You may find an arrangement with the company when the time comes. You may be compelled to stay for other reasons. The place where you plan to go may not be able to welcome you anymore. On the company's side also, many things can happen. It can fold. It can reduce expenses and remove your position. It can be acquired and downsized. It can be relocated in a place you don't like. It can change management and become unbearable. You can find that you don't like that job after all. It can take ethical positions you are not comfortable with. There is no guarantee on either side, and a year is a long time. The one thing you can do, however, if you have a good relationship with the company and the people you work with, is give sufficient notice before you leave to make sure they can prepare. (Find someone else and train them, for example). 

Always limit your commits and pull request to as little changes as possible. It makes code review faster, and limits the risks of conflicts. Put yourself in the code reviewer shoes and imagine receiving a 1000+ lines code review because the dev has reformatted the entire file, for a change that should have taken 20 lines. Put yourself in the shoes of the next dev who is working on a feature branch, and gets conflicts on all their modified lines, because meanwhile you changed the formatting on a part that you were not expected to touch for your feature. To that end, only fix the formatting of the lines you actually work on, if that is relevant. (Keep the indentation consistent with the surroundings). Try to avoid anything in your PR that is not directly related to your task. 

I am a trainee developer at a large (~120 people) web agency, about 7 days from passing my probation. I was feeling unwell this morning (Thursday) but I went in anyway because I have a deadline for a substantial project to meet in 4 days time (Monday). I was only briefed on this project yesterday (Wednesday). Work days are only Monday - Friday so technically I only have Friday and Monday to do this. I am still quite ill and the fever and dizziness is only slightly better, so I most probably won't be able to go into work tomorrow. However, I don't think it is fair to just dump an entire project on me with a deadline I know I won't manage to make. I have voiced this out with the person in charge of this project and he just shrugged it off without offering to help. I have been criticised by my boss twice during probation because he feels I am not enthusiastic, that my technical skills are much lower than my colleagues (I am a biochemist by training) and that I do not study further outside of work to make up for it (which I do, I left a career in science because I am passionate about programming). So I am afraid that if I continue to be sick (which I can't really help), I might get fired because I was unable to meet this deadline, which is unreasonably set in the first place. I look after myself well but these past weeks have been suffering from sleeplessness (I won't be able to sleep until 2am and would wake up by myself at 6am, 7am), probably because of the stress. The only solution I can think of is to go in on the weekends (provided I have recovered), but then would it be rude of me to ask for time off in lieu at the later time? 

I am a trainee developer at a large (~120 people) web agency, about 7 days from passing my probation. During my interview and on the contract it says the work hours are from 9:30am to 6:30pm. I always work at least those hours, and often overtime. I studied biochemistry at university, but fell in love with web development. I don't have a CS degree or any qualifications as a developer; and my employers know this when he hired me. But he has criticized me twice since then for not being enthusiastic, and not using my time to make up for it. Both of which I find extremely untrue and unfair. I do a lot of relevant reading in my own time (for my own interests, not because he requested). Lately, I've been given projects with unreasonable deadlines, and they expect me to overtime without pay. I mean, I know I am not as skilled as my other colleagues, but it shouldn't mean I have to be a slave, giving all my time to do their projects. What's worse, they don't teach me anything, so I gain very little in these overtime. There's an overtime culture at the company; people there are happy to work, go home, sleep and work again the next day. I cannot do that. I am not as skilled as them, yes; that's why I need my own time to learn new things that they should be teaching me, but are not. How should I approach my boss to tell him that he is expecting too much? Without risk getting fired. UPDATE 7 NOV, 2014 Conditions did not get better, OT'd until 5am on many nights and also OT'd every weekend for the past month. After refusing to OT anymore, I was fired. In hindsight, sticking around wasn't such a bad idea, it really made me appreciate my own time more, and my work ethic is much better now. And now I have found work with a new company, who is smaller but have big clients too, and they've said "we work like a bank" - 0930 to 1830, you leave at 1830, no weekends - and they pay much better, which I didn't think was possible! I'll continue to give my best for this company!