I just switched my sites over from shared hosting to what I thought was a step up ( dedicated ). One of my websites is built on Wordpress and already I am having problems with the folder permissions. I was told that only 770 would work on the wp-content folder. My email with them is a pain. I have been building websites for a little under 3 years now and have used many different hosting providers depending on the client. <- And I'm tired of hosting companies ( mainly for my personal sites ). However, I have very little server experience, BUT I am willing to learn. So my Question: I pay 50 bucks a month for hosting and deal with too many problems. Would I be intelligent to buy my own server and go from there? The way I see it: I would save in the long run ( big time ) and have my server sitting right next to me. I need to host only about three sites, with each needing their own email. I have residential cable, but it's blazing fast. <- It could easily handle the traffic of my three sites. Please let me know if I'm crazy :) 

Use my current hosting: which is a dedicated virtual Upon user upload: use ffmpeg to convert and resize videos Videos will upload straight to Amazon S3 where they will be redistributed using Amazon CloudFront (which provides the media streaming) 

I am trying to be clear about how zfs dedup handles the case where some (but not all) datasets in a pool are deduped, from a dedup table/RAM impact perspective. I found this quote from the FreeBSD mailing list in 2012: 

After reading the original email thread and @ewwhite's answer which clarified it, I think this question needs an updated answer, as the answer above only covers half of it. As an example, let's use the output on my pool. I used the command . On my system I needed the extra arg to locate the ZFS cache file for the pool, which FreeNAS stores in a different location from normal; you may or may not need to do that. Generally try without first, and if you get a cache file error, then use or similar to locate the file it needs. This was my actual output and I've interpreted it below: 

I didn't get an answer here so I asked on VMware communities. The best answer I got was that there's a VMware "fling" called visualesxtop (on the VMware flings website, best found via Google in case URL changes), which produces graphical and tabular monitoring data for an esxi host. Works great! 

Pool B has one dataset containing 1 TB data with dedup on. It's clear that the dedup functionality applies to the entirety of each pool. What isn't clear, is whether the RAM impact of dedup is based only on the deduped datasets? In other words, all other things being equal, will the dedup table size and RAM impact be similar for pool A and pool B, or far larger for pool A than pool B? I think the dedup table has to be similar for both (set poolwide but no impact on size from any non-deduped datasets), mainly because if it was much larger, it would be equivalent to forcing dedup on the whole pool not just specific datasets. However it isn't clear to me whether this is actually so. 

I am in the process of creating a youtube type site and would love to get some help regarding the setup. Here is what I have planned so far: 

I am very new to linux so please forgive any ignorance. I setup a VPS using Ubuntu 10.04, apache2, mySQL, and PHP. Everything has worked perfectly except for two things: 1: my IP address is assigned to Germany (we are in the US) 2: my Google Chrome Sniffer (it places an icon in the address bar with helpful hints as to what programs the websites uses: analytics, wordpress, etc...) is no longer working on my site. Are these two 'problems' even problems? If so, I would love your input! My Chrome Sniffer 'problem' is not really a problem for me at all, I just wonder if it is a sign of a problem?? 

Will this setup work? If not, what am I missing? Is this an inexpensive route? (as in, is it a fairly decent setup?) If successful, will I lose my butt in overhead? There is always the gap between 'getting popular' and 'popular enough to make money with ads' What will I be looking at in startup costs? 

If CMOD 755 is not possible and 767 is not either, what is the next best permission? So far I have checked 775 and it works, but is it safe? It is an upload directory and the only people uploading to it are a select few of admins (ie not worries with them). 

What's the current state of play on this for a modern *nix file server with Windows 8.1/10 x64 clients, if NFS is also enabled on the clients? 

Apparently the correct answer was "talk to LSI, get told nothing will be done; talk to Intel, get told it can be replaced under warranty, send off 910 SSD, receive top-of-line P3700 in return" :) The answer above got the key point though which was to speak to Intel 

I don't know powershell specifics for regex or to scan a file line by line, but assuming powershell regex is like all other regex, the actual pattern to match your string with, looks something like this (the 3rd regex below matches your examples): 

This is related to this question and extends it. The symptoms are the same - 2012R2 x64 with 64GB RAM (21GB used), and both work fine, but IE won't open web pages, returns an error 1450 "Insufficient system resources exist to complete the requested service" and PuTTY gives the error "Network Error, no buffer space available". I could follow the suggestions in that question or increase various TCP parameters, but I suspect the problem really lies elsewhere in some process or other and I'd like to solve the underlying issue if I can because it's recurrent. The problem is that most online solutions seem to refer to Windows XP and x86 architecture, and their solution is "use an x64 based system", so I'm not sure how to adapt them for x64 with ample memory. Alternatively if it is a single process leaking kernel buffers, how would one view the open buffer count for each process, so that the process responsible for leaking or holding buffers can be closed or avoided, without killing user and system processes by "trial and error"? Relevant registry settings: