I do research in the field of AI. I'd say for the purpose of simulation and prediction of what crew members are doing and will do. If the machine does not understand human motivations, it will not understand human choices, and it won't be able to predict what humans are doing. If romance is allowed on ship, it behooves the AI to be able to simulate romantic interactions (from the first meeting, on through physical interactions, on to whatever the long term results; such as marriage or amicable break up or resentful break up). The routine is not for itself to have romance, but is for it to understand the choices and distractions and jealousies and obsessions of humans in romance. Think of it as a form of electronic empathy. An analogy might help here: We have pretty good weather prediction, these days, at least pretty accurate for the next few days. As you can see on TV weather reports, we do that by simulating the weather inside the computer, using math and physics. Your AI can be the same: It can monitor behavior and speech and actions, conclude when people are falling in love, and take appropriate action (which depends on your plot). Perhaps it wishes to encourage the relationship, prevent it, or just take precautions against distractions for either party. Perhaps, beyond romance, it can also detect if the attraction is mutual or not, a good personality match or not, a healthy DNA combination or not. The Romance feature is a tool necessary to have a full understanding of the crew. It should have features for all major human emotions, for the same reason. 

I think then wooden weapons become much more sophisticated; hardened, dried and sharpened; perhaps soaked in liquids that make them denser. Pointy ends can be very effective, including in all-wooden arrows, or a throwing cross (say a four pointer with a good rock in the middle for weight). Since stones are allowed, flint can be knapped to a scalpel sharp and lasting cutting edge; so it can be (indeed was) used to tip weapons. It is brittle; but perhaps wooden weapons with an embedded flint edge would make good knives and cutting swords. Socially, warriors are chosen by try out or conscription at a very early age, like six, and trained all day every day in martial arts, including the use of every imaginable type of wooden weapon, offensive and defensive (like fighting with a shield). They never have any other profession, they are trained, they fight, in older age they may become generals or trainers, they may be allowed to have wives and children if they survive some required number of battles and kills. This doesn't have to be all males; female martial artists can often hold their own against males (IRL that is a major motivation for females learning martial arts. The blade of her forearm against the throat of an attacker can kill him; there is a vulnerable point in the pelvis to kick that breaks it in two and makes it impossible for the attacker to stand up.) As far as tactics: The obvious one is to have an army of ruthless, highly trained martial artists that attack the untrained citizens of the opponent, killing them all. Or killing all the adults and males over six, taking the rest of the males as new warriors, and (like Moses) give all the virgin females to male soldiers, to be the mothers of their children. Beyond that, ambush when possible, deception and guerilla tactics when possible, "specialist" silent night in-person assassination teams when possible (analogous to our Seal Team Six operations and spies), otherwise direct confrontation or siege when all other options are exhausted. 

First, putting all morality issues aside, IQ can be well defined, and in fact it is, by current intelligence tests. For the purpose of this question simply divorce yourself from the notion that the IQ test has any meaning other than the score ON THIS TEST, it doesn't have to correlate with any kind of life success, survival skill, or moral worth. Consider it like any other breeding program: I want to breed chickens to grow fast and produce the most consumable calories in a given amount of time, like 12 months: Along with a few other economic conditions, like no great increase in disease, injury aggression or self-harm, at least before harvest at 12 months. To help separate this from knee-jerk responses to controlling humans, let us consider breeding mice for this trait. We will devise a mice IQ test (already been done, I know). Ours will focus on the ability of mice to solve puzzles and make distinctions in patterns. High IQ would be treated as a good in itself (something we want without having to justify it), and testing would be mandatory before mating would be allowed. Pregnancies without testing would be aborted. Testing at puberty would result in sterilization; or perhaps temporary sterilization (an easy surgery in males, a pill in females) if we wish to allow multiple chances to allow for having a bad testing day. Breeding could be allowed by choice, just a restricted choice: A female with a desire to mate could be allowed to choose her mate from acceptable mates, for example. We might want a trait in which females prefer smarter mates, and select for that, too. You could also apply human levels of intelligence to develop the genetic science of what it takes to score high on the IQ test: Correlated genes and gene combinations, for example. Note that we don't have to know exactly what the genes do, in order to use them in the selective practice: We can just assign gene sets to groups of "acceptable IQ" and "unacceptable IQ", and then abort or genetically engineer embryos that have combinations of genes that we have seen in the unacceptable set but do not see in the acceptable set. Regression to the mean is not some magical property, it is a result of random combinations. By analogy, consider the dice game Yahtzee: A roll of 5 of exactly same number is a Yahtzee. Thus there are six possible Yahtzees. If two Yahtzees are "parents" and we mix 2 dice from one and 3 from the other, odds are only 1 in 6 pairings will result in another Yahtzee: The other 5 pairings result in a full-house (3 of one kind, 2 of another), which is 50 times more common than a Yahtzee. Thus reducing the randomness of gene combinations can improve the odds of getting mice with high IQ scores on the test we devised. I will repeat: This is a scientific approach divorced from any morality of controlling the mating freedom of mice, or whatever the subject. Also repeated; there is no guarantee that our test is "well-formed" in the sense that the traits it tests for improve the odds of mouse survival, mouse longevity, or mouse quality of life. In fact, if you believe evolution, in the last few hundred million years, has already balanced the benefits of mouse intelligence with mouse survival and reproduction, then increasing mouse intelligence probably comes at the cost of reducing mouse survival and reproduction. In evolution there is a chance of stumbling upon a free lunch (as plants did with photosynthesis, and as we humans did with abstract intelligence), meaning one that increases survival and reproductive chances; but if the free lunch is exceedingly rare then the chances of finding it are, correspondingly, exceedingly low. Of course engineering is in the business of making things that would be nearly impossible to achieve by chance either certain or for more probable: If I am allowed to turn the dice, I can have a Yahtzee every time, instead of averaging just 1 in 1296 throws. Thus selective breeding and selective genetics can avoid regression to the mean as much as possible, by reducing the randomness of gene combinations to those known to work. In the end, given some very high scoring on the IQ test, simply cloning the winner's DNA will eliminate the chance of DNA being the reason for low scoring, and allow the breeders to move on to other factors (like infant and child nutrition, education, exposure to pollutants and disease, removing stressors known to reduce IQ performance like isolation, frequently interrupted sleep due to noise or other irritants, frequently changing environmental conditions, frequent incidents of physical pain, etc). 

That is easy: Lawyers, volunteers trained in writing law, but chosen by lottery to be hired for the purpose on a law-by-law basis. You do not want writing law to be their career, they are not politicians. Your bigger problem is how to propose laws in this society. You need a way for regular citizens to actually propose laws and get them voted upon without overwhelming the populace with votes on whether dog owners must provide effective doggie shoes when walking their pets in temperatures below 29F, or whether it is legal to have a sexy Santa and sexy female elves in your yard at Christmas. Or you could have an elected Congress that proposes and writes laws, but all they do is put them up to a general vote. That is less than ideal, because they can still be corrupt and many laws that the majority of people would vote for will never be proposed, due to corruption. 

I suggest you read the book by Roy F. Baumeister Is There Anything Good About Men? (How Cultures Flourish By Exploiting Men), the Eppes Eminent Professor of Psychology at Florida State University. It is written for popular consumption but backed up by plenty of real deal academic firepower (IMO, as always). For example; on Page 61, he asks a question most people think is obvious: What percentage of your ancestors were Men? The answer is not 50%! Although it is true about 50% of all people born are male, this question is about men that have at least one living descendant today: You. And some of your ancestors had trainloads of descendants. In genetic studies, it turns out that only 33% of our ancestors were male, and 67% were female. Why is that? Because a very high percentage of females born will reproduce, but the chances are about half as good for a male; and even if they have a male child, that child has the same poor chance and the all-male genetic lines tend to die out in a handful of generations. Why Do Females Reproduce More Than Men? Baumeister makes a good case that cultures exploit men, because men are expendable. Imagine a tribe of 100 men and 100 women. They are attacked! By a roughly equal opponent; so if both men and women fight, and our tribe prevails, we have 60 men and 60 women. Next year, those 50 women can be pregnant and we get 60 new kids: Tribe size 180. Now suppose only the men fight, and we prevail, but we still lose 80 men. Only twenty men survive. Well, those 20 men can impregnate the 100 women, and have 100 babies: Tribe size 220. Men can be expended by society due to the differential in reproduction. As Baumeister notes; both history and legend are chock full of stories in which 100 men get together and risk their lives on a boat or campaign to get rich. Why are there essentially zero legends or historical stories about 100 women doing the same? Because they don't have to! Except for some special circumstances, women are almost certain to reproduce if they wish to do so, it is only a question of how good a man they can get. But they can always get SOME man, and historically, it was not unusual for many women to get the same "good" man; a wealthy and/or powerful one. But men are in a different boat, historically they did not get children unless they could prove themselves; hence the need to go get rich, start a business, win races, fight battles and survive. Should they die in the pursuit, society suffers little, the woman he wanted will find a substitute that didn't die in the pursuit. How That Matters. The point is, even our modern society is already structured around the idea that Men are expendable. Men are the soldiers, men are the risk takers. It is always "Women and Children First" when the boat is sinking: IRL we may call it chivalry; but the ideas are as if grown men are expendable and should know it, and this should be an integral part of their psyche. How we might work these real-life ideas into a fictional setting. It isn't a stretch to posit that in the fictional world, Baumeister's insights are explicitly explained, in more flowery language, to justify that women MUST be in charge: Men are servants of society: Their's is not to question why, their's is but to do and die! The cultural training they receive can be that men die to protect women and children, even women that are not their mates and children that are not their own (We are close to that in real life, anyway); otherwise they are cowards and shunned, both romantically and financially. Perhaps even punished or imprisoned. Also in their cultural training: Men are risk takers, impulsive, fighters prone to counter-productive violence, too hot to be good negotiators! You can see it in their childhood rough housing; even at two they are trying to establish dominance over their sisters by hitting, pushing, and force! Only women, with a natural instinct toward care and patience born of their natural ability to raise children, are capable of leading the society forward without risking killing it. Of course, a mother's instinct will lead to fighting and violence and war when her children are in real danger, but (in their mythology) she will not over-react like men do, she will not be vindictive like men are: She will mete out proportional punishment and sanctions when that is due, no more and no less. The justification for the Matriarchy is the obvious: Decades without war, and the clear bright line that only women are created by God to create and nurture new life; no man is born with what he needs to nurse a child. It is women that care for life, and part of that care is running the tribe, no matter how large it is. It is not just the creation story, for them it is reflected in real life, so even the "non-believer" variety of men can believe it to be true, and defend the Matriarchy with their lives --- as they are meant to do.