Well, sort of. The form that evolved intelligences always seem to take is a complex of super-interconnected thoughts, which can't really be separated wholesale from the intelligence itself. Or rather, they could, but it would be so incredibly delicate and computationally expensive that there is essentially zero chance of it ever evolving (note: this also includes telepathy). The only ways I could think of it coming about are if it was engineered by some advanced super-race, or if the aliens reproduced by temporarily shutting down their brains and then duplicating them cell-by-cell. In the latter case, the resulting spawn would be psychologically identical to the parent, which isn't ideal. Perhaps, the spawn is then flushed with hormones and such that "reset" most of their brain, turning the ancestral memories from "experiences" to "known facts"? That said, the "right" answer while writing something is probably "sure, if you want it to". Most of Renan's answers are good ones. All of them except the genetic memory one, really, which draws the ire of pretty much every nerd with any knowledge of genetics or information theory. Although I suppose it is a good way for a bioengineered species to have ancestral memory. For example, have a section of the brain specifically dedicated to monitoring the rest of the brain, and whenever something significant happens, that section "writes it down" in DNA and uses specialized blood cells to send it off to the germ cells. This organ would probably also be responsible for turning the ancestral DNA-memories into synapse-memories during brain development. 

There is a distressing lack of math among these answers, especially concerning question number 2. The solar wind is about $400 km/s$, so a speed of $10 km/s$ is negligible in this calculation. The solar wind/interplanetary medium has a density of about 5 ions per $cm^3$. Suppose our projectile is roughly spherical, with a cross section of $10cm^2$, making it about the same diameter as an artillery shell. The we use Avagadro's number and hydrogen's atomic mass () to convert from ions to grams. Now we have everything we need: $\dfrac{400\frac{km}s\cdot100000\frac{cm}{km}\cdot5\frac{ions}{cm^3}\cdot10cm^2}{6\times10^{23}\frac{AU}{g}\cdot1\frac{ion}{AU}}\approx3\times10^{-16}\frac{g}{s}$ If it were only mass we were worried about, that'd be just about nothing. But that mass turns into energy, too; converting to $kg$ and multiplying by $c^2$, that's $0.3W$, a surprisingly everyday quantity. Assuming the projectile is made of water (weighing about a kg), and half the energy is turned into heat, that would heat the sphere by...$0.00004\frac{^\circ C}s$. So, tl;dr, your projectile is relatively safe in the interplanetary medium! Gunners would probably need to take into account the kinetic energy created, which would essentially turn the projectile into a weak rocket engine pointing away from the sun, but presumably future computers can compensate for that pretty easily. It's also still iffy enough that its effectiveness at long ranges may be reduced during bad space weather, which can increase the density of the solar wind by up to twenty times. Obviously, this means that the projectiles would also be fine in interstellar space. However, the same cannot be said of upper earth atmosphere, which even at 300km is about 2 billion times as dense as the interplanetary medium. The atmosphere doesn't move as fast as the solar wind, so the temperature would still only go up at about, er, $2000\frac{^\circ C}s$. The rocket effect would also be much more powerful, and pointed backwards instead of toward the sun. So such a projectile launched that close to the earth would instantly vaporize, probably sending a shotgun blast of antimatter right back into the ship that fired it. 

Space doesn't actually work like a flexible rubber sheet and "snap back" if it is twisted or bent. However, one possibility you might consider instead is the use of warp drives for weapons. As noted in here, Alcubierre drives may have a tendency to pick up and blueshift the cosmic rays it encounters during its travel, and when it stops the energized radiation is released in a cataclysmic blast. 

Yes, of course. Our lungs do this. The type of membrane you want is a semi-permeable membrane. The material used for this would be similar to mammalian veins, as they perform gas exchange in our bodies. 

Actually, it would require a square of the effort, as pressure is force per unit area. And that's before we consider the resistance of the filter. It's infeasible for any creature to go much past its normal intake pressure due to this. 

Filtering CO with only a semi-permeable membrane is impossible, due to its similar size to O2. Thus, to satisfy all conditions, we need some mechanism that will separate out unwanted chemicals (preferably in a way that doesn't poison the animal), and then allow the required chemicals (oxygen) into a semi-permeable membrane for a final size pass. The setup that would achieve this is a biochemical filter that feeds into our semi-permeable membrane, and finally into the bloodstream. This has some important implications. The creature will probably have no way of dealing with chemicals that do end inside its blood, such as dissolved CO in liquids, and thus there is a variety of liquids (and solids) that would decompose in the body and become toxic. This is the equivalent of injecting ethanol into someone. You're bypassing the liver, which would normally deal with it. Besides this, its breathing liver (if you will), would need to be able to neutralise a variety of harmful chemicals. Due to how absurdly complex biochemistry is, there probably exists some gas that will get through the filter and come out toxic (this is why methanol kills humans but ethanol does not. Neither are very toxic in the first order, however the same chemical pathway that turns ethanol into vinegar, turns methanol into formic acid, which is quite toxic). Thus it's impossible to have a creature that will survive all airborne contaminants. There will exist some situation in which they'll need a gas mask. However you can have a creature that can deal with most commonly found contaminants on the planet upon which they reside, with analogues to those contaminants being toxic. 

Not necessarily. Logistics The answer to any question of "should we do X" can always be rephrased as "is the benefit of doing X greater than the cost(s) of doing X". So let's rephrase: In a civilisation that has access to tonnes of planets, would vertical farming outweigh the cost of setting up the farms? For certain planets, the answer would be yes. Temperate planets that are close to existing hub worlds for example would have low cost of transport for goods manufactured on them (food included), thus more extreme forms of manufacturing (such as vertical farms) could be utilised before it becomes inefficient to build more dense and/or complex systems. It's not just a matter of the space required, but also the world's climate (and how easily it can be terraformed), as well as how it relates to the economy at large. If it is in a convenient location, or is highly abundant in a particular resource, then it may be worth it to employ advanced engineering techniques to maximise the utility of that planet. 

This boils down to the age old question of "can crime be eliminated"? The short version is no. Over a long enough time scale, some poor sod will break the law, either out of ignorance or malice. As for why someone might break the law considering the penalties are so harsh. It's a cost-benefit question. After all, you can only be punished if you are caught, and also convicted. Thus a good lawyer and/or some crafty planning will let you get away with it. If we assume that the judges are all-knowing, mind-reading gods, and that all judgements are true and fair, then we can still fall back on the person only being convicted if caught, so they could just become a fugitive, after all the punishment doesn't get much worse for each subsequent crime. A person treated like X becomes X, because there is no possible downside to doing so. The way they are treated will not change. This is a flaw in all extreme punishments. Once you cross the line, there's no, or little harm in crossing it more. Thus, in such a system you would have no minor crime, and the occasional murderous rampage. EDIT: Extra information has been provided by the creator, thus some clarification is required. The Church has some way of determining a corpse's crimes This changes a few things. Now it is an invetibality that if caught, a fugitive will be subjected to their torture/punishment (whether they are executed first or not). In this scenario, these people have two major options: 

I feel like there are a couple of different cases to consider here, and which case is applicable depends on what exactly you mean when you say your scenario involves "comparing DNA." What exactly does it mean for two species to be "genetically similar" in your scenario? Same number of genes? Same possible gene variants for particular genes? Same number of chromosomes? If the DNA comparison is very granular, something like gene-to-gene, your scenario only makes sense if the two creatures are already quite similar, having comparable gene "slots." It's highly likely that two creatures with the same chromosome and gene counts could already interbreed, so the pursuit of making them compatible is pointless. The other answers here have already discussed this case in much better detail than I can. On the other hand, if your scenario could accept the lower-tech alternative of classic breeding based on gene expression rather than on direct DNA comparison, then you have a case of forced convergent evolution going on. You could theoretically breed any two creatures in the world to look more and more similar to each other. You could take a certain shark species and a certain dolphin species, for instance, and (with enough time and patience) make them both separately look like a halfway point between the two. Or, as Theik proposed, you could simultaneously breed a tiger to look more wolflike and a wolf to look more tigerlike. However, since the two species would have come from very different genetic starting points, it's extremely unlikely that you'd be able to get them to interbreed. tl;dr: If two species are similar enough for "comparing DNA" to make sense, they're probably already breedable. 

They already have high voices. Their vocal cords don't make low sounds very well, so a hiss would come more naturally than a growl. The hiss is an imitation of another animal that hisses when angry and dangerous. For example, perhaps your species hisses when threatened because a certain species of poisonous lizard or snake that lives in the area does the same thing, so the hissing sound is immediately associated with danger. 

First of all, I don't think there's any shame in taking our existing holidays as inspiration. Many holidays from different cultures on Earth have similar roots, typically in the meanings of the seasons and other natural phenomena. As religions developed over time, these holidays were imbued with new meanings. For example, a celebration of the winter equinox seems to be very common in Earth cultures. Early cultures may have wished to appease their gods or other forces of nature in the hopes that winter would end soon, but over time, the celebration itself became the highlight of the event. (Come on, the longest night of the year is exciting!) As ages passed, holidays such as Saturnalia, Hanukkah, and Christmas came about by pairing a certain religious event with the existing winter celebration. In fact, Christmas' date was assigned to align with Saturnalia and related celebrations, specifically the birth of Mithras. With that said, here are the steps I'd recommend to crafting fictional holidays: 

They already have low voices. The inverse of point #1 above. Related: the lower the pitch of the growl, the stronger the creature seems, since it implies that the creature is bigger. The growl imitates a large local predator, such as a big cat. Related to point #2 above. 

Pick some events of importance to early agrarian societies. Basic examples: the new life of spring (plants in bloom, baby animals, etc.), the autumn harvest, the winter solstice. Flesh out some pagan traditions that would have come about in response to these events. Physical offerings, bonfires or mass candle-lighting, music and dance are some options to start, but don't be afraid to make them more specific. Pick certain symbols and details that cultures might latch onto over the years. Establish at least a few major religions of your world, based geographically. Write out some myths and stories for them. Think about which ones would be most central to that religion. According to your world's history and geography, assign these religious meanings to your celebrations. Consider which cultures were dominant in certain regions at certain points in history; this will affect how some religions will adapt to the existing religions of others, for example to avoid persecution. Give the holidays a few hundred years for the pagan traditions and religious traditions to merge and evolve. Not all aspects of Christmas are Christian, for example, but not everyone knows this.