I will try to answer in the context of the "Civilization" game. Empires get unwieldly, and vulnerable when they are "too large." Too many people in a city makes some of them unhappy. Too many cities in an empire reduces the necessary number of people in any given city before it becomes unhappy. Cities (and military units) that are unhappy are susceptible to revolutions from within, and bribes from without. Also, the further a city is from the capital, the higher the levels of corruption and waste (relative to its size). In playing the game, I consciously do NOT try to maximize population growth. For instance, I do not irrigate land until relatively late in the game (e.g. when I have a government like Democracy that fights corruption and waste). Instead I use my settlers to build roads that connect my cities, thus reducing corruption and waste. I also tend to place workers on "resource," rather than "farmland" squares, which further slows population growth, but speed up the construction of buildings. Temples and colosseums calm restive people, courthouses reduce corruption, marketplaces and banks boost the economy etc. Basically, I want a high ratio of buildings (capital) to people. If I capture small cities abroad, I "depopulate" them by building settlers until the city disappears, using military units for "rush builds." Thus, I get a "free" settler or engineer to improve my other cities nearer home. The collapse of the ancient civilizations occurred when then got so "top heavy" that 1) other civilizations feared and envied them and 2), they were not "agile" enough to resist outside threats. Instead, managed growth for internal, rather than external growth seems like the better bet. But most rulers didn't see it that way until it was too late. Louis XV's quote, "After me, the flood," preceded Marie Antoinette's "Let them eat cake." 

There are really only 3 social roles a society needs to be successful 1 - Farm/gatherer class these will be your society's food producers. For example, they could grow food and develop long sharp claws for harvesting, they could be gatherers with strong skeletal structures for supporting heavy loads, or even be photosynthetic and generate fruit-like things over time. 2 - Builder class this class will be responsible for constructing your society's buildings, maintaining existing structures, etc. They should have dexterous appendages to manipulate building materials such as wood planks or stone blocks, and should also be able to lift heavy loads and collect these materials (strong skeleton, maybe one or more arms solely designed to chop down trees or cut stone). 3 - Warrior class: these would be the members of society responsible for protecting your society from outside invaders. They should be resilient to damage, with maybe a tough exoskeleton or a thick hide, preferably resistant to temperature changes both hot and cold. Now, depending on how advanced you want your society to be you could develop sub-classes for each grouping. For example, a sub-builder class that can mine for iron ore or rare materials, or a sub-warrior class that can take on aerial enemies with wings and honeycombed bones. And if you want to get really advanced, you could have certain organisms with larger than usual brain capacity and a degree of autonomy from the hive mind, allowing them to learn and design new ways for the hive to operate (think engineers to design new buildings or scientists to design new weapons). 

Note that every intercalary system is a nod to practicality, making the system more usable by normal people. People whose job it is to study the stars—astrologers, for one, but also navigators and possibly many others—will need to use the celestial year that always runs equinox to equinox. Cutting the Day This is just a matter of deciding what the major unit is. Two-hour watches have been convenient and useful around the world for much of human history, so you might want to just stick to that. These can and should be named for your zodiac signs, in the same order, but you do need to decide what “zero” is. That is, does the day begin at midnight, sunup, sundown, or noon (to list the most obvious choices)? Midnight and noon have the advantage of being consistent, but are a pain in the tail to use practically. Sunup and sundown are easy to use, but they have an infuriating habit of drifting. As with seasonal calendars, you may want to think how close these folks live to the equator, because the closer they are, the easier it is to use the sun. Counting these is easy enough: water clocks, sundials, hourglasses, marked candles. Houses This may seem like an unnecessary refinement, but a House system is a great way to add flavor and depth without making things more difficult for you. If you’re not trying to do precise astrological calculations (and I assume you’re not!), the House system really amounts to nothing more than labeling the sky with hours. You know how you might say “enemies coming in at 9:00,” and that basically means “from your right”? Same deal, only vertically. Due east is 0:00, straight up or down is 6:00, straight west is 12:00, and straight down or up is 18:00. In the western system developed by the Mesopotamians, down is 6:00, and up is 18:00. This is because whatever is currently at 6:00 will rise on the eastern horizon in six hours, and so on. But for purposes of flavoring your world system, it makes no difference: you could reverse up and down, and while you’re at it you could focus on the western (setting) horizon rather than the eastern (rising) one. Take your pick—four options. Since your hours/watches are named, this means that people used to paying close attention to the sky may remark that they see the moon “in the house of the Lion” or the like. Explanation Don’t. It’s not necessary, and it’s very hard to justify. How often have you heard someone have a conversation about the nature and structure of the calendar and time system we use? That’s about how often it should happen in your world too. The thing is, if you’re absolutely consistent about it, the whole thing will start to hang together by itself. And here and there, there are some opportunities for a little fleshing out: 

There are a couple ways you could do this: Option 1: Go far away Hyfnae's answer touched on this, but if you hide yourself well enough, and do so on a planet far enough away from this society (you said they only found most of the universe, after all), you can avoid detection for a long time. However, once the society's surveillance stations come your way, your activities will need to be downsized immediately. Even if you've hidden your labs well enough to avoid detection, if life on your planet starts evolving too fast or changing too rapidly you will draw more attention than you want. As a result, another option (my favorite) would be to . . . Option 2: Bring in more people What if your conspiracy included not only biologists, but some builders and surveyors as well? You could arrange to construct a surveillance station near the planet(s) you want to work with, and make sure that its leaders are fellow conspirators. Then, you would have nearly unlimited creative control on the planets around the station, as your planets can't be discovered by a society that thinks it already discovered them! Option 3: Change society The final option I can see would be to convince this society that "messing in god-like affairs" is not something to be banned, but embraced. After all, you aid that these immortals get bored of their immortal lifespans, so they build structures spanning entire solar systems. Your conspirators could simply pitch their activities as another way to ease the boredom. To make their case better, they could propose to use a lifeless planet and artificially terraform it. Where's the harm in messing with life that would never have existed in the first place? While this option, if successful, would be the best way to play God without fear of getting caught (society already knows about and agrees to your work) I can see how it would make for such an interesting story. However, I can see an interesting dynamic whereby most conspirators try to hide their activities and a few try to make it socially acceptable. These few would risk exposing the conspiracy, and might become the target of a space-age hitman. Hope this helps! 

Deep underground, there's a huge limestone cavern, roughly 50m x 100m. It's 250m deep, and completely filled with still water. There is a very small inlet, but the system is now effectively closed, so it appears to be a vast underground lake. Now down at the bottom, there's an ancient stone door, 4m on a side. Using a magical bomb of sorts, the heroes blow this door off its hinges. On the other side is nothing to speak of -- the water can flow out freely and descend well below the bottom of the chasm/lake. 1) How long will it take for the lake to empty? 2) Will the emptying process accelerate over time, building up an increasing vortex, or remain basically steady? The water can tear the door-frames to bits as it races by. 3) What will this all look like, seen from the shore of the lake above? 4) The walls of the cavern are dressed elaborately -- think of the great gate of Petra, all the way around, halfway up the sides. What will happen to these sculptures as the water races out down below? Note: If this belongs in some sort of fluid-dynamics SE, please direct me there. I figured it's such a broad hypothetical, especially the part about the Petra-like carved facades, that it belongs here. 

You say you want to go with something accidental, but you can take it even further. What if some people do something they think is helping and it causes catastrophic failure. Imagine this: A private software firm develops a new program for power grid management. You may or may not be aware of this, but most power grids need constant maintenance to balance supply and demand of power. Too much provided, and the grid shorts. Too little supplied, and systems shut down. As a result, the power plants for each regions grid are constantly changing output. It is inefficient and relies nearly exclusively on human influence. Water flow through dams, burn rate for coal plants, and number of cells active in nuclear plants are all dependent on people, with very little computer influence. What if that changed? What if our software company found a way for a computer to observe supply and demand for power and learn when and why to adjust output, adapting to all forms of generation. This company would instantly become rich, as energy firms seek to use their hopefully patented tech. It starts small, taking root in cities first and then is applied to nationwide grids. It is amazingly effective, causing the energy industry to reduce failures and increase reliability. BUT THEN It was a simple mistake. The software firm is working on an update to their system, one that energy firms are deadly waiting for. When it comes out, all of them want it, and they allow some of their newly computerized systems to accept the update and all goes smoothly. They wait a week, a month maybe. All seems well. So, they push the update to more systems it until all of their grids use it. After all, if it didn't fail within a month, it must be safe. And it was, for a time. But unknown to all, there is a glitch in the update, a miswritten definition in one of the program's library files. This particular file isn't called on by the main function very often, so the glitch remained unnoticed. Then, one day, catastrophic power failures everywhere. Coal plants stop working. Dams are frozen at their current flow rate. Nuclear plants completely shut down, their cells grow cold. The lights go out. The world is dark. Basically this idea depends on a glitch in computerized grid maintenance causing a global shutdown. This idea, scarily enough, is plausible even today. I'm sure the energy industry would love a way to manage the grid without constant human attention, and a bad update is something everyone deals with eventually, from iPhones whose hardware can no longer handle the new iOS to government websites with broken links. Hope this helps. 

I once created a "take-off" on Civilization II to answer questions like that. While I have only a "beta" copy of my version, I could get some very interesting results using a "whole world" board for World War II (not just Europe as in the Civ II version). I'll supplement the results by using "real world" battles. The seven countries are America, Britain, Soviet Union, Germany, Japan, "Neutrals" (e.g. Spain and Turkey in a grand coalition), and "China" (four cities in the back country, Yenan, Chongqing, Llass, and Urumqi). My theory is that in order to win on the Soviet front, Germany needed to capture both Kiev and Moscow in 1941. And they couldn't. It was one or the other, and they opted for Kiev first, which is why the couldn't get Moscow, and ultimately why they couldn't win the war. If they advance on Moscow in the fall of 1941, they forego their attack on Kiev. They capture part of the city by December, but by then it's winter, and they barely hold their positions, more or less, as in real life. It takes them until summer to capture the city entirely, and by the time they have finished mopping up partisans (an important feature of the Civ II game), it's almost fall. By the end of 1942, the Germans have captured Moscow and possibly Leningrad, but have let the "big prizes," the southern economic zones, stay Russian. Meanwhile, the Americans have destroyed the Japanese navy in the battle of Midway, in June, 1942, and the Anglo-Americans have captured North Africa by early 1943. When the Germans resume advancing on southern Russia in summer 1943, the Russians are backed up by Anglo-American troops coming through Persia and the Caucasus. Other American and British forces open a "second front to the north and east; the British land in Archangel (after winning the battle of the Atlantic in the spring, 1943), and the Americans land in Siberia, joining up with the "locals," and attacking German holdings in Russia from the east. All, like the "White Russians" against the Communists in 1919-20 (the British actually occupied Archangelsk at the time. Joint Anglo-American-Russian forces beat the Germans west of the Urals, invade East Europe together (the Anglo-Americans invade Italy in 1944 to co-ordinate around the Black Sea. The key is that the Americans get involved with Lend Lease, and a modicum of ground troops. In that way, "locals" will rally around them. 

The short answer to your question is "yes, of course." Two societies that come into contact, assuming that they are able to communicate, will necessarily have an exchange: communication requires this. To put it in Star Trek terms, the Prime Directive is idealistic but utterly impossible: the only way not to influence another society is not to let them know you exist. On the other hand, there is no reason that one has to think of such contact in catastrophic terms. To be sure, the history of European colonialism is not a pleasant one, but that needn't be the sole model. Consider, for example, the many, many tribal peoples of the Americas, prior to the arrival of European invaders in the wake of Columbus (let's ignore the Vikings here). They talked to each other, traded with each other, sometimes fought and sometimes didn't, for an extremely long time. As a result, we can spot remarkable affinities among myth-cycles all across the Americas. If we had better longitudinal data than we do, we could chart how customs and such moved; in some cases, we can do this to a degree, especially when it comes to material culture (pottery, beadwork, etc.). You cannot possibly model all of this, of course: it's ludicrously complex. But there are a few points that could perhaps be useful in a fictional worldbuilding context. 1. Variable Usage and Interpretation Suppose one culture has a big thing about hats, where there are all these incredibly fine variations and gradations in hat shape, style, material, color, and so on, and these are a complex sort of code having to do with social station, age, sex, place of origin and/or residence, and so forth. (At various times China has had some of this kind of thing going on.) Now along comes the other culture, and they do some peaceful trading for a while, and this other culture takes home pictures and souvenirs and stuff in addition to actual trade goods. Now at home, they might end up with a big fad for "alien hats," and suddenly the millinery industry is going through the roof. Of course, this culture either doesn't understand the hat-code system, or doesn't understand it well, or just as likely, sort of understands it but doesn't really care: the alien code doesn't apply, but the hats look cool. 2. Reinterpretation But maybe that second culture, after a brief fad about the alien hats, finds itself in a situation in which everyone is wearing weird hats all the time. They have the concept of the alien social hat-code, but it's an alien system that doesn't match their own life-patterns. It could well happen that, over time, this society develops a way of coding hats that does match their life-patterns, particularly if they're constantly trading with the original hat-wearing aliens. 3. Rejection as Adaptation And then a new thing sweeps our society: hat-coding is an alien thing, and it's contrary to what we're really all about (because of the gods, or pride, or whatever). So people stop wearing hats entirely. Before alien contact, they sometimes did and sometimes didn't wear hats, but it didn't mean much: it was a fashion thing, or maybe a way to keep the rain and sun off. Then there was this fashion surge, and then this new hat-code, and now nobody ever wears hats. I realize that this may seem like a silly set of linked examples, but the point I'm trying to make is that cultural contact and adaptation is both extremely complicated and to a significant degree non-catastrophic. While it is obviously possible for "contact" to mean "convert them at swordpoint and then enslave them," it usually doesn't work that way. Usually what happens is that objects, customs, images, and so forth are exchanged, and then each culture has to make sense of the new stuff in its own terms, which in turn changes that culture -- but not necessarily to make it any more like the one it's exchanging with. Here's a final example, in this case from real history: Melanesian cargo cults. Cargo cults are (mostly were) complex and varied, but the basic phenomenon is revealing and helpful for the question at stake. To give a highly simplistic account of one type: During the Pacific War, the American navy (especially) sometimes provided various goods to local Melanesian tribes. In essence, the idea was to get these people to be friendly to Americans, such that they could be enlisted to assist against the Japanese; for example, they might tolerate an airstrip, or they might tell Americans about spotting Japanese ship movements, or whatever. Now when the war ended, so, pretty soon, did the providing of free stuff. Now the problem is, a lot of Melanesian societies base their economic systems in social exchange. Think of it sort of like The Godfather: if I'm a big powerful dude, that's not because I have a lot of goods, but because everyone owes me favors. And to retain and increase that power, I have to keep people owing me by giving them stuff and not letting them pay me back. For my birthday, I'm going to throw a huge party and invite everyone, and I'm not only going to feed them but I'm going to give them all presents. This both demonstrates and increases my power. So for these Melanesians, the American goodies represented a problem. The Americans gave them stuff, but didn't accept anything back. So this meant that the Americans were incredibly powerful. But when they just stopped giving stuff, what were the Melanesians supposed to do? They owed favors, but now the folks to whom they owed the favors wouldn't talk to them. So in these cargo cults, you'd get a millenarian religious movement centering around the Americans and their stuff. People built wicker airplanes, put on wooden headsets, and generally did anything they could to force the American "gods" (loosely speaking) to restore the relationship, not necessarily because the Melanesians wanted or needed the stuff as such, but because this gross absence threatened the whole system of exchange itself. If you do a little research on cargo cults, and think about what's happening on the two ends of the exchange, you'll end up with a very wide range of ways to think about cultural adaptation. 

It depends on what your government is willing to do to maintain population. For instance, if you don't care what the people think / government has absolute power, you could simply kill off people when you're above your cap. However, I get the feeling that this approach isn't what you're going for, so I'll provide a couple other options. Sex ed Educating people about the dangers of unprotected sex and providing contraceptives is a very good way of reducing unwanted pregnancies, allowing all children born to have been planned for. While not significantly reducing the danger of overpopulation, this policy makes population growth/decline/stagnation more predictable and manageable by your government. Advance society Shalvenay touched on this, but advanced societies tend to have lower birthrates, mainly as children have stopped being necessities (for subsistence farming) and have become something more of a burden on parents. After all, it used to be that children helped produce food and clothes, but now parents have to provide that for them. Children are also an enormous time commitment, so for the most part only people who want children, knowing fully their responsibilities, have children. To increase this effect in your society, your government could sponsor efforts to develop underdeveloped parts of the world, if any exist. Once your planet is sufficiently developed, you could maximize the time commitment of children by making daycares illegal, possibly under the premise of helping children by having their parents be the ones who raise them. However Even with both of these options in place, your population will still grow. Just look at the US, one of the most developed countries in the world, where the birthrate is still significantly higher than the death rate. Unless every person in society is willing to limit the number of children they have, you're going to need to take extra steps. If you want to truly and reliably stagnate populations, your government is probably going to have to become morally questionable. Forced infertility You could develop medicine that babies are given at birth to render them infertile, and only with a government permit could they be provided with a drug to stimulate their reproductive systems again. The downside of this approach would be the immense resources required to manage these permits and the possibility of wealth becoming a factor in securing one. Brave New World-esque factories If you've ever read Brave New World, you'll be familiar with this suggestion. If your society is advanced enough, you could produce children in artificial wombs, making entire factories for children. This would give the government complete control on population growth with comparatively fewer resources. Overall If you use any of these options, your government is going to need to do a couple things to ensure their success. Firstly, census taking will have to change. Reliable death counts and birth rates will need to be calculated more than every ten years, probably at least yearly. Computerized birth and death certificates that automatically add to a counter is one option that comes to mind. Secondly, the government will have to take complete control of the world, if they haven't already. People cannot be allowed to have the freedom to have children if you seek to manually curb population growth. However, there is one final option your wise government can take if it does not wish to pursue the above methods. Nothing If your government remains in power forever, it is safe to say that if they wait long enough, the population will grow faster and faster, until food cannot be produced fast enough. This will cause mass starvation and the population will drop significantly and then grow to a sustainable level. Unfortunately, on Earth a "sustainable level" will mean that nearly every aspect of the environment becomes artificially controlled to produce just barely enough food for the now stagnant population. Foods that are efficient to farm/grow like corn, potatoes, and fish will begin to dominate markets, and many species useless to humans will die out.