Take it as a chance to improve the way you communicate your opinions on others' code. Instead of believing that this was intended to reprimand you of your behavior, think of it as a soft prodding that you should be mindful of not just what you say in a code review, but how you say it in a code review. I know from experience that reviews are meant to be egoless and that we don't single out any one person, but it's still people writing the code. Take the chance to ask your manager or lead how they'd have responded to code you found less favorable, and simply improve from there. Make it a focus point for you to build on as opposed to it being something (potentially) negative. 

You can't just think of John's working relationship, you also have to consider the rest of the team's morale when working with John. Here are some sure-fire red flags for me: 

If I were you, I'd start polishing my resume ASAP. Terms such as "re-org" are usually codewords and consist mostly in reducing costs by firing employees. This may not be the time to talk about promotions. 

I'm afraid it's almost impossible. Sure, you can avoid the agency that helped you get your current job, but that's not enough. Some companies that use recruiters ask to disclose their name only during the interview, some prefer anonimicy until the last moment. In my case I prefer to apply for positions where the name of the company is known from the beginning, or to ask my contacts for tips or referrals. If a position I like is posted by a recruiting agency, I google them, as many like to say who are (some of) their past or present clients. If I get and interview with a recruiter or a consulting company, I ask if they can disclose who the client is. Most of the times they tell me. If they don't, well, that could raise a red flag for me, or at least make me suspicious. If that's the case I don't press further and let the process go on. 

From an engineer's perspective who may be interviewing you...how am I meant to evaluate your skill or see how you solve problems if you refuse to do so in my presence? Let's not mince words here. I suck at interviews. I was unemployed for about five months because my interviewing was so terrible (from my perspective; I know I'm a brilliant developer but interpersonal communication has always been a weakness of mine). But that didn't mean I didn't do any coding exercises; quite the opposite. I made sure that I met their coding exercise requests, and showcased what I had learned from past experience (including clear documentation of code, READMEs, unit tests, etc). I wanted them to know what they were getting from hiring me; a diligent worker who regarded themselves as a professional and expert, and one who understands what it means to architect the solution, test it, and deliver it in a way that makes sense to everyone. By you refusing or failing to do that, you miss the opportunity to really put yourself out there as a stand-out candidate. I've not heard of many professional institutions hiring someone without asking them some kind of coding exercise. Let's face it - as a developer, you're going to be paid a lot of money to solve problems, and if you don't showcase how you solve (or at least approach) problems, you're not showing me that you're worth what I'm willing to pay, or more. 

I worked at a company for a year an some days. When I entered, I was told that I would work at max 9 months (6 months mandatory, 3 optional) as a part-time Trainee. The first six months I did some minor testing while my team leader try to place me in an stable project, without success. Then, he got a project with a new client, a top Company in its field. Soon became clear that he would need all hands on deck, so I started there as a Shadow dev, mentored by a Semi Senior. As my time as a Trainee was coming to an end, I asked my mentor if he had any idea regarding my situation. He told me to ask the team lead. When I asked him, he told me to ask the PM, whom I didn't know by that time. Time passed by and I still was a part-time Trainee, even though I wasn't a shadow dev anymore, I started visiting the client with my mentor and facing deadlines. Whenever I asked about it, the answer was "I don't know". As my first anniversary in the company was coming closer, I decided it was good moment to ask again. This time, my mentor told me to ask formally to my team lead, CC-ing him and the PM. I sent a very polite "I'd like to know the status of my situation" email. I was fired the following day. I updated my CV, adding a description of my position, but I'm not sure which seniority I should add. I've read many articles about seniority levels, and so far my responsibilities and time in the company seem to place me as a Junior. On the other hand, most of the texts only mention Intern as lower than Junior, but I was nothing of the sort. TL; DR: My seniority got stuck in a gray area between an Intern and a Junior and I can't find a proper way to make it clear enough without risking my chances to be hired. So far, my options are 

I'm currently looking for a job, but due to extensive and exigent family matters, I've not really had the time or focus on requests by hiring managers, or really follow up on leads. Worse, I don't know when it will be resolved enough to allow me to focus again on the job hunt. I've talked to the recruiters that have been working with me in what I'd describe as cryptic terms - analogous to, "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and haven't managed to look at this yet," or "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and unfortunately have to withdraw from the interviewing process at this time," and for the most part it seems like they're amicable to the situation. However, I really don't want to make this seem like I'm slacking off; I'm genuinely dealing with family matters which require my near-constant attention. I don't want to burn bridges or miss out, as these recruiters have opportunities I have a genuine interest in. To that effect, I'd like to inform them of what's going on so that they have in their minds when I'd be reasonably available. However, I'm not sure how much sharing would be necessary or professional. What degree of specificity should I be stating when I say, "I have an exigent family matter"? Is simply mentioning it enough, or should I look to go deeper? 

I've been at both sides of the phone line, so I may be of some use. First of all, don't yell, insult, threat or abuse a customer support representative. I repeat: don't do it. First level customer support rarely employs developers or people with IT studies. The rep in question may not fully understand what you're talking about, and even if he/she does, it's out of his/her scope. What you can do is document everything, to prove that both you and support people are doing all they can. How? Like this. 

You keep your job, nothing changes. Lucky you, you survive the lay-offs. However, it can have other consequences, which takes me to You keep your job, but you get demotivated. Layoffs can lower team morale, especially when highly valued employees are fired. Witnessing a colleague clearing the desk or saying goodbye to the team is a tough experience. The ones that stay in the company may fear any of them may be the next, or start to get paranoid that someone can betray them. You keep your job, but your work load increases. Your team loses members and you and the rest are expected to do your job and theirs. Depending on what you're doing a the time, how many people leave and how many stay, you could find yourself doing more than you can handle. In some cases companies may force their employees to do unpaid overime or work till you burn out. You get laid-off. It's difficult to know what criteria they use to fire employees. Sometimes is productivity, or seniority ("juniors first"), random or a mix of all them. You may even survive the first batch, work a few more months, and be a victim of a next one. 

What you want to demonstrate is that you did billable work. What this means to me is several different things: 

Honestly, alarm bells are going off for me with these particular questions, not because you're not getting better answers, but because the questions themselves are...terible. There's no real context to ask what the "difference" may be between Windows and Mac, given that: 

You claim that this is a very low evaluation, but you don't explicitly state if you've been punished or otherwise demoted because of it. Without any tangible effect from these evaluations, there's no way for you to know how to improve, or what's keeping you from getting 90% or above. Talk directly with your evaluator and ask specific questions about your performance. Do not make this out like you want to know why you're getting marked lower than you expect; instead, steer the conversation towards tips and direct suggestions on how you can improve as a professional. Think "professional development" instead of "evaluation". I wouldn't recommend writing a letter or contacting anyone else on the matter, since it could result in more direct and unfavorable reviews in the future. 

Lastly, if your manager doesn't believe you, even after you show him either the ticket or what you wrote down, suggest him to call again and put the phone in speaker so that he can listen to the whole conversation. If you communicate through email, suggest to CC or CCO him. If after all this he still does not believe you, or demands something impossible for you or the software company, its him who needs to understand that there are things that cannot be fixed in the blink of an eye. Do not harrass or be rude to the support reps, even if he orders to do it, because if it reaches upper management ears you could be the one who has to pay for it. Hope this helps. 

I think that as long as you don't reveal any particulars such as company name or identities of the people involved, there should be no problem at all. Just in case, check if there is an specific employee policy that states clearly that you cannot post it in sites such as this one. And, if you're really afraid to be caught, post it using your own equipment and outside the company network. Your coworkers or management may try to guess, but unless you say you did it, or someone has proof you did it, they will never know. And if they do, is really a crime to ask a bunch of strangers in the Internet for advice?