Is there an established distinction between a geyser and a cryovolcano in the context of cold solar-system bodies such as the moons of Jupiter and Saturn, or Kuiper belt objects (e.g. Pluto)? Both can lead to spreading of new water across the surface, and both can result in plumes of water vapor above the surface. Do they have distinctly different mechanisms? 

Since this image resolves lateral detail, I'm guessing it might be the same 10 hours of data, but processed with a moving frame and corrected for distortion as it wraps around during the rotation of the planet, while the global image above is smeared by rotation Was it? Where can I read more about this? 

If I take this rough analogy one step further, while the peaks and troughs of the ripple magnify and demagnify, the midpoints between would be more prismatic - they would tend to deflect the centers, or locations of objects systematically, rather than affect the shapes. Applying this to cosmic shear, wouldn't the existence of shear essentially suggest that - to put it simply - stuff is, in fact, "not quite" where it appears to be? 

Question: Were there in fact transits of the Earth as seen from Mars on these dates (in 1905, on 11-May-1984, and in 2084)? If they do occur at roughly 100 year intervals as suggested, there may in fact be people on Mars to see the next one presuming that Sir Clarke did his maths right (did he ever not?). On what day would that be? 

At the time the Big Bang happened the matter had enormous density. According the GR (I may be wrong here) such density dilates time. If so, could it be that the time periods just after Big Bang which are usually considered happening in small part of a second (such as the Planck epoch), in reaity took billons of year (or may be, infinity) but due to time dilation appear to us as spanning only microscopic parts of a second? Could it be that the age of the universe is dramatically underestimated? 

It was suggested that we could cool down Venus by putting a powder cloud in the Lagrange point between it and the Sun. This will cool Venus in a few months to the point where its atmosphere will start liquify, creating a global CO2 ocean. The surface of an ocean is much easier to colonize than creating flying cities. 

Can we interpret the de Sitter universe as a spherical cosmic horizon null surface of finite radius, centered at Earth, and containing the Hubble volume of space where time is dilated and radial dimensions contract closer to the edge in such a way that objects closer to the edge do not recognize that they are radially contracted? Everything is attracted to the edge, but the total radius remains more or less constant and emits de Sitter radiation at finite temperature. 

Why Earth's perihelion occurs 3rd January rather than 1st January? Is there any effort to correct this discrepancy? 

See also Ye et al. 1I/2017 U1 (`Oumuamua) is Hot: Imaging, Spectroscopy and Search of Meteor Activity for further background: 

It's the "likely brown dwarf companion" I'd like to ask about. The paper with the catchy title "The First Science Results from SPHERE: Disproving the Predicted Brown Dwarf around V471 Tau" Hardy et al. (2015) SPHERE is a new, advanced adaptive optics system at the Very Large Telescope (VLT). The image below (figure 3) is part of the argument, and the suggestion is that if there is no brown dwarf seen in the band between the two white circles, then the predicted brown dwarf does not exist. This would be interesting, because an alternative explanation for the slow, periodic drift in the eclipse timing would have to be found. One possibility is the Applegate Mechanism which I don't understand, but may ask a separate question after this. Back to Vaccaro 2015, section 9, titled "On the Reality of the Third Star" is over six pages of discussion of the underlying assumptions, and if I understand it correctly provides several possible ways in which a suitable brown dwarf could exist but not show up in the SPHERE image. In essence disproving the existence disproof. I would like to know: Is my understanding of the current situation correct? Have there been more recent developments? 

On earth, pressure can come from geological hydrostatic forces and by steam produced by geothermal heating, but they rarely rise beyond a few dozen meters. That would be perhaps 100 meters in Europa's gravity. The images shown of the water above Europa show heights of 100 kilometers and more. Unlike Earth rock being heavier than water, Europa's ice crust floats. What could be sources of hydrostatic pressure or pressurized steam near the surface that can create such "geysers" or "jets" that can project water to such heights in this gravity? 

If Great Attractor were the center of a black hole to which we belong, we would approach it at speed greater than speed of light and there would be no way to move away from it, even temporarily. Also we would observe it in any direction. 

Black holes decrease as they evaporate and their radius decreases as well. So what is with a cosmological horizon? If cosmological horizon is just a black hole centered at the opposite side of the universe, we should see the radius of the external space groving as the radius of the BH decreases. But if the radiation decreases the horizon entropy we should see the area of the horizon decreasing. What is the correct conclusion? 

Alpha Centauri Bb is an exoplanet orbiting Alpha Centauri B. It is asserted that given the close distance to the star the planet should be tidally locked. The orbiting period of the planet is about 3.2 days. If the planet has no atmosphere (which is very possible due to proximity to the star), its dark side should experience low temperatures like permanently-shadowed areas of Mercury do. At the same time the planet is about 11 AU from the other star, Alpha Centauri A. This possibly means that the planet should experience quasi-day/night cycle each 3.2 days. My questions are: 

I do not know how it is in your country, but here in Russia, astronomical articles and news very often report astronomical distances in kilometers, million kilometers, billion kilometers, trillion kilometers etc. It is just we do not use units like gigameters, petameters and the like, but kilometer is the standard unit in astronomy. 

In the original article the JPL/NASA contains a link to this page, which currently contains this image also shown below. It looks more like an actual photograph. 

I found the image below in Space.com's article This 3D Color Map of 1.7 Billion Stars in the Milky Way Is the Best Ever Made, although it is not the map mentioned in the title. The caption for this image reads: 

What is a quaternary mirror Why does the E-ELT need one What is it about this mirror that is "very complex"? 

below: Selected parts of Figure 3 from here. The selected column is data for galaxy m12i, which is representative of a Milky Way-mass galaxy in the simulation. 

below: From the 2016 ArXiv preprint High-Angular-Resolution and High-Sensitivity Science Enabled by Beamformed ALMA 

above: Illustration of the optical system of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope, from here (rotated). 

If you like Python you can reproduce these fairly easy. The package Skyfield uses the same NASA JPL Ephemerides as the JPL Horizons site but is easier to use. You can see that 95% of this script is just making it look nicer and getting the position of the planets is just a few lines. Here are the results for only 6,000 years, a much smaller period than shown in Cohen and Hubbard 1965, so Neptune only makes a small segment of its 25,000 cycle, near one end where it's "moving" slowly. The first set of plots are in inertial (non-rotating) J2000 ecliptic coordinates, and the second is rotating with the average orbital motion of Neptune, so that Neptune appears nearly fixed. The first plot shows Neptune-Pluto separation versus calendar year. The minimum in this period seems to be around year -77, with a distance of 2.65 billion km or 17.73 AU.