I would make a division between (1) all the things you need to know to do philosophy and (2) important books and (3) "State of art"-philosophy if one wants to call it like that (those papers, essays and books that are written in the last 20 years or so, by people who we pay to do philosophy). (1) In order to get into philosophical terms etc. I would suggest the book: "Philosophical Devices: Proofs, Probabilities, Possibilities and Sets", by David Papineau. I read it and it is awesome and very helpful. Another one that comes up often is Thomas Nagels "What Does It All Mean?: A Very Short Introduction to Philosophy". You would then know the relevant terms and got a neat overview what schools there are etc. (2) Next step would be to read whatever you like. Let us pretend you are mostly interested in political philosophy. Then i´d go chronological and start by Platos Republic, Hobbes Leviathan, Rousseaus Social Contract, Kants Perpetual Peace, maybe mix some Marx in, and finally Rawls Theory of Justice. Depending wether you like Rawls or not, you can go into any direction from there (Nozick would be one example). Of course there might be different views on which books one should read. These books are probably found on the reading list of introductory courses for political philosophy at a lot of universities, though. (3) If you´re done there, I would suggest, whatever your interest is after reading all this, to read what is written nowadays or in the past 20 years, e.g. in the Journal of Philosophy or some other Journal that is publishing philosophy. 

As regards to ancient philosophy: Given that we lack most of the full works, try picking up those books who collect all the bits and pieces (or at least contain a list of everything there is). Here are two such books: Hellenistic Philosophy by Gerson and Inwood, and vol. 1 of the Hellenistic Philosophers by A. A. Long. 

No empirical falsification is ever decisive whether the theory is probabilistic or not. Popper discussed this, e.g. section 29 of LScD "THE RELATIVITY OF BASIC STATEMENTS". the basic issue, also known as the duhem-quine problem, is whenever you have a refutation either the refuted theory is wrong OR the refutation itself could be wrong, so it's never totally clear, decisive and settled. So what do you do instead? You criticize and stop seeking certainty. You try to find bad ideas and reject them. Does it makes sense? Any logical issues? Does it solve the problem it's supposed to solve? Does it cause any problems? You look for good qualities for ideas and things wrong with them. Do your best to think and improve your ideas. Grow your knowledge instead of yearning for final unquestionable answers. This works the same with probabilistic and non-probabilistic theories. 

if you have no training, trying to rescue a drowning person with no equipment in deep water is actually dangerous. they aren't thinking straight and may drown you. but let's assume rescuing them is only a tiny risk. then go ahead. life is full of risks. if you ride in a car you could die in a car crash. trying to avoid all risk would be silly. you don't need a big benefit to accept a tiny risk. it's up to you if you want to rescue them. if you value human life, then that's a reason to do it since you want to see the guy healthy. if you like people in general, and you have a way to be a big help to someone at a low cost, then you can do it, go ahead. there's nothing in Objectivism to outlaw this (nor strictly mandate it. but Objectivists respect human life. so if it's a tiny cost, well, can't you afford it? Objectivists ought to be productive and be able to afford tiny costs to promote their values.). it's great to look for opportunities to trade mutual benefit in general. if you had more time maybe you'd ask him to pay you $10 to help. but you're in a hurry. you could ask him afterwards. i bet he'd give you $10 if you really care, or perhaps he'll volunteer some other reward for you. but $10 is so small compared to a life that it's not a big concern here, nor is the $10 of effort and risk this cost you. (it depends on the scenario parameters. if it costs you $5000 of effort and risk, then that could harm your own life, and he might not pay you back after you save him, so you have to consider what you want to do.) 

In Propositionals Logic 'Some cats are black', since it is atomic, will be formalised like this: 'P'. In Predicate Logic 'Some cats are black' will be formalised like this: '∃x (Fx & Gx)', which should be read as 'There is at least one thing that is both a cat and black. 

Necessarily, there are things that have no proper parts(mereological atoms) I can imagine a possible world at which there is only gunk (stuff of which every proper part has again proper parts and so on) Therefore, it is not the case that necessarily, there are things that have no proper parts. 

To be an academic philosopher, you need to socialize with other academic philosophers (which is quite a skill), you need writing skills to write essays and books, and you need presenting skills to give talks at conferences. Furthermore, you need some source from which the ideas come which you write about and talk about. That may be creativity or something else. 

When can we truly say of something to be conceivable? What are its necessary and sufficient conditions? Is it like imagining? Is it just being consistent with everything we know? How many people have to conceive something in order for it to be conceivable? 

Philosophers, especially in analytic metaphysics, often talk about the conceivability of things. Here are some examples: 

The difference is that in the first example, all quantifiers are in the front and that in the second the quantifier appears within the scope of the other quantifier. Is there a difference? If so, where? 

The argument: P1 Playing with you causes the matchmaking to include people of lower levels in the opposed team P2 Low-Level player are more likely to report abusive language P3 He uses abusive language Conclusion: By 1-3, he got reported. 

What objective criteria can be used to judge philosophical refutations? Say for example that someone is writing a criticism of Karl Popper. What are ways to reject the criticism without getting into a detailed debate of the sort that this site doesn't allow? 

Reading Speed it's really really valuable to learn speed reading so you can read more philosophy. reading a lot (and rereading) does matter. if you can't read philosophy at 500 or more words per minute, it will be hard to do as much as those who can. it's also valuable to be able to read using both text and audio so you can read books while going for a walk or driving or at the gym, etc. you can listen to ebooks using text to speech software such as $URL$ (you aren't limited to audio books) the most effective speed reading approach is called Rapid Serial Visual Presentation. here's a free web version to see what it is (it takes a while to learn and get good with it, but you may be able to use it around your normal reading speed immediately. you can do higher speeds with 2 or 3 words at a time instead of just 1, and some people also find 3-4 words at a time is easier initially): $URL$ learning how to skim well, skip around to the important parts of books, look up relevant parts in the index, etc, is also extremely valuable. good skimming can save even more time than speed reading. both speed reading and skimming can have major downsides if done badly. you can lose a lot of comprehension of the material. but if done with enough skill and good judgement, they can work for most material, and you can occasionally slow down as needed. (as you get better at it, you can slow down less often for less kinds of material.) and reading faster allows more rereads. if you can do 2-3 fast reads instead of 1 slow read of a book, that's usually better. or do 1 slow read and 2-3 fast reads instead of 2 slow reads – that's pretty much always better. and getting good at speed reading can improve your minimum reading speed too. Rest Regarding rest, knowledge workers like programmers typically do about 10-20 hours a week of really serious hard work. They spend the rest of the time answering emails, doing meetings, checking reddit, etc. Most people can do more temporarily but would burn out if they kept it up. People also tire from other types of thinking such as playing chess or reading difficult philosophy. Getting tired normal. People also like excuses for not doing much. So be careful! Some people are exceptional. The philosopher Karl Popper had a reputation for working long hours all the time and not doing much else. Try to be honest about how much rest you really need. The more you really like your work, the more it should energize and inspire you! If that isn't happening, maybe something's wrong.