The policies of Soviet Union were never determined by "hate" or other emotions. They were always pragmatic. (For example, they "hated" Nazism when they found it useful, and then suddenly made a U-turn and started to support Nazi Germany, when they saw potential benefits of this. And did this until they were attacked themselves). Israel was founded by people with socialist views and in the beginning Soviet Union hoped to exercise great influence in it. (At least Israel looked very anti-British at the moment of its creation). Some communists were intentionally sent there from Soviet Union (as immigrants) to organize Israeli Communist party etc. Soviet union indeed played an important role in the process of creation of Israel (using its influence in UN), and in the first Arab-Israeli war. Soviet union did not support Israel openly during the war, but allowed its East European satellites to do this (Czechoslovakia supplied Soviet arms). But soon it became clear that Israel will not be a Soviet satellite in the Middle East, especially when it allied itself with France and England in the invasion of Egypt (1956), and Soviet policy turned to support of Egypt and other Arabs which they saw as "anti-imperialist". In general, the "principle" of Soviet Union foreign policy during the Cold war was to support anyone who opposes US, UK their Western allies. With Israel, they miscalculated. 

Many medieval buildings had (and still have) roofs made of lead sheets. This was a very reasonable material for roofs, not vulnerable to corrosion. One disadvantage is that it is very heavy. Also this was a common material for all sorts of pipes and gutters and other metal details. Even in modern times (I mean 50 years ago) lead was commonly used for underground cables protection. You do not explain what exactly were the parts you have seen. On the question why you have not seen this before, I do not have an answer. It is very common. 

This is indeed an interesting and difficult question. Mongols defeated almost all states around them, and they certainly had no technological advantage or any superiority in the weapons. But this is not the first case in history when nomads defeated the more technologically advanced settled civilizations. (One historical example is the Hunns, and parts of China were conquered by the nomads many times). The conquest of Genghis Khan and his followers was just the greatest (of all similar nomad conquests) in terms of territory. But notice that it was short lived: this huge empire was split into several parts in 2 generations after Genghis Khan. The general advantages which the nomads had over settled people is that they were extremely tough: they could survive the degree of deprivation which the armies of settled peoples could not. And war was the only occupation of almost every male. So they could create large armies, though they almost always were smaller than those of their enemies. But these are a general advantage of the nomads. What makes the Mongol stand out among other nomad conquerors, was an extremely effective organization. It seems that this is due to the extraordinary abilities of their leader, Genghis Khan. He was able to achieve a strong discipline, in a large army, and appoint outstanding commanders. (They say that Subudai-bahadur won more than 100 pitched battles and lost none. So he was by far the greatest military leader in history. And Jebe was probably the second). And none of Genghis Khan top commanders or close relatives ever betrayed him, another unique thing in history. His adversaries did not have this degree of cohesion, and had no social mechanism for appointing the most talented officers on key positions. In most societies of that time, commanders were appointed according to their birth, or noble origin, or court intrigues. In the Mongol army, promotion was clearly based on the merit. Subudai and Jebe were of very modest background. Mongols were able to adapt all necessary inventions from neighboring countries to their advantage. I recall that in the beginning they had even no writing. (The writing was adapted from the Uighurs). They had no idea how to take walled cities. Before they attacked China. After that they adapted Chinese technology and Chinese TECHNICIANS (!) to operate it. This only shows the outstanding abilities of their leaders. Another thing I want to mention is the ability and desire of Mongols to learn. Their superior military intelligence is frequently mentioned. The Russian chronicle, for example says "Came some Tartars, who they are, and where did they come from, nobody knows". The attitude of Western Europeans was not much different. This is in sharp contrast with Mongol's attitude: they KNEW where they were going, they knew all details about the situation in Europe when they came there. They knew what they needed to know. They sent spies. They did meticulous planning. Again this has to be credited to their supreme leadership. EDIT. I was asked to add references. The main primary source for the events before the death of Genghis Khan is the so-called Secret History of the Mongols. The standard English translation with comments is this: $URL$ Many other translations in many languages are available (some free on Internet), $URL$ Based on this, and on somewhat later Arabic (Rashid-ad-din and others) and multiple Chinese histories, many books are available. A good one, covering the same period (before the death of Genghis Khan) is this: $URL$ It collects information from primary sources, with some reasonable comments, and makes a good reading. For those who prefer movies, there is a Mongolian-Chinese TV series called Genghis Khan (2004). I do not know in what languages it is available, I watched it in Russian. It is quite faithful to the "Secret History" in showing the events, but they somewhat gloss over the episodes which characterize Genghis Khan negatively (from modern point of view) and emphasize the episodes where he looks good. Nevertheless they do show everything mentioned in the Secret History. For example, they do not show the mass slaughter episodes, but one can easily guess what happens behind the screen. There is a biography of Subudai, Gabriel, Richard. "Genghis Khan's Greatest General Subotai the Valiant". University of Oklahoma Press, 2004, but it is not very good on my taste. The author just collected all sources that mention Subudai. I do not know any monographs about other top commanders (Jebe, Jelme, Mukhali, Khubilai). Not the Khubilai Khan, grandson of Genghis Khan, first Yuan emperor of China, but another Khubilai, one of the "Four Hounds" of Genghis Khan. Most authors, including Wikipedia confuse these two Khubilais. EDIT. Let me add one little remark to this long answer. We know that it took much more time and efforts of Genghis Khan to conquer and unite all Mongolian tribes, then to defeat North Chinese states and Khwarezm. In some sense, uniting Mongolian tribes was a greater feat. And certainly he had no advantage in weapons or technology when he did this. Expedition to Eastern Europe by his descendants was a small episode by comparison. 

The kind of software you are trying to make exists: $URL$ It is quite convenient and detailed, and covers the period for which sufficient data are available. But it is not free. EDIT. To address some concerns expressed in comments. This is the web page of the person who made this software. I know him personally and the page is around for more than 10 years. I know that the Naval Academy purchased and used this software for teaching purposes. I suppose he has a free demo which covers the period of Napoleonic wars. Remark. I do not care whether this answers the question or not. If this information is not useful, and will be voted down I will delete it. 

The means of communication of scientific ideas before 17th century were books, private letters, lectures and public disputations. (There was no scientific societies before 17th century). By the way, many important scientific discoveries did not come from the universities at that time. For example, Fibonacci was not associated with any university. You should be more specific about what you mean by science in the Middle Age. Almost no science existed in Europe before the Renaissance. So when we speak of Medieval science we should be discussing Muslim world first of all. If you are talking about Renaissance, there was still no scientific societies, and the means of communication remained the same (Napier, Brahe, Kepler, Galileo, they all wrote books and letters, here was no scientific societies, and by the way none of these named people was associated with any university). 

There was no publishers, no royalties, and no copyright. All these things were invented after the spread of the printer press. If you are a scientist/philosopher, you would write your book yourself, or hire a scribe if you are rich enough. Then you will send it to a friend, and/or read to your students. Almost all books in mathematics and astronomy begin with something like "Dear Aristodem, I promised to explain you..." as private letters. Your friend is probably also a philosopher, he has some students. He will tell them about the book and some of them will want to copy it. If the demand is large and the students are willing to pay to save their time, they will hire a scribe. As the rumor will spread more people will ask for copies. In any case you will never be payed for writing a book. Or you address your book to a ruler, and send to him. He may ask someone to read him aloud. If he likes it, he will order some copies. This custom: dedicating books to rich and powerful sponsors persisted till the early modern age, by the way. And they rewarded the author. This was what happened with new books. Unlike the works in science and mathematics, works of poetry, tragedy and history were performed in public. This made some authors very famous, and people were looking for their works to copy. There were also libraries. Some very rich people collected books. They would search for the manuscripts, borrow them and have their own staff of copiers. The most famous library was maintained by the first Ptolemy's, Greek rulers of Egypt. But several other large libraries are known. There is a famous story that they asked the Government of Athens to give them the originals of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides plays, which were probably preserved in some government storage. Athenians demanded an enormous deposit. Ptolemy payed the deposit, and did not return the manuscripts. (Probably sending copies back to Athens). They also enforced a law that all ships arriving to Alexandria must declare all books on board. The books were copied and returned. As I understand the ruler payed only for copying, to the person who copied. All such information suggests that there was no market in the modern sense. If you wanted to have a book, you will find someone who owns it, and either copy it yourself or pay to someone to copy it. By the way, I suppose that theater performances were free. They were sponsored either by the city or by rich people. The city also arranged competitions of the theater plays, and winners were awarded prizes. I suppose this was their only income from the plays. This describes the situation in ancient Greece and early Hellenistic times. In Greece proper (before Alexander's conquests) the main kinds of literature (besides science, history and philosophy) were theater plays and verses. Verses were simply copied by people who liked them. In the late Hellenistic times, it is possible that some commercial writing begins. We have the first novels from that time, and it is not clear whether the authors could make any profit of them. This is also the time when commercial art workshops appear, making paintings and statues for sale. EDIT. The thing like a "professional writer", a person who lives on honorariums and royalties becomes regular only in the later 19th century. But of course, information on the ancient authors that we have is very incomplete. In most cases nothing is known about the person except his surviving books themselves. 

To begin with, there was no "farmers" in Russia or Soviet Union until 1990s. And for most of population, agriculture was not a "profession", but social status, "class" as it was called. These people were called peasants. If you are born into a peasant family, you are a peasant, by default. Peasants were a "class", not a profession. In different times it was more difficult or less difficult to move to a city, or to obtain some other social status, by education, for example. In the period we are talking about, peasant lived on the land which was owned by the state. They possessed plots but these plots could not be bought or sold. They had plots which they developed. Sometimes it was possible to escape to the city (without any of your property) and find work there, and place to live. Still in the beginning of the Soviet state, most peasants had individual plots, and could sell their product on the market. In the process of collectivization, in the early 1930s, these plots were united to large collective farms. Their production was simply taken by the state. This led to a large and widespread famine. During the famine, the movement from the country to cities was blocked by the police and troops. Moreover, during the Stalin rule, internal passports were introduced for all except peasants. One could not legally travel or live in a city without a passport. This changed only in 1960 when peasant obtained passports. Shortly speaking, agriculture was not a profession, and perhaps the most unsafe "occupation". Peasants were just deprived of all means of existence, and for most of them there was no way out. Many of them died of starvation. 

Specially for you, a remarkable book survives, and there is even an excellent English translation with technical commentaries. And free on the Internet: $URL$ Frontinus was a noble who was appointed by the princeps (Nerva) to supervise the water supply system of Rome. He decided to study thoroughly the history and technology related to this business (he did not want to rely on "engineers", who even if they were not slaves, where very close in status). He wrote this book for himself, but also for his successors. It has complete data on construction and taxation of Rome's aqueduct system since the times it was introduced. 

The map given in Matt's answer shows what the Germans really occupied. The remaining question is what it really means Russia or "Russian territories". I think Tom Au had to specify this exactly when he was asking this question. But I can comment on this. Double click on the map and you will see the administrative boundaries within Soviet Union. They are shown like this ----- and these are the boundaries between the "Soviet republics" as of 1939. So if the question is how much of the Russian Federation (in the boundaries of 1939) the Germans occupied, the answer is also clear from the map. Since then the boundaries of the Russian Federation changed. So modern Russia does not coincide with 1939 Russian Federation. The largest changes are Kaliningrad region (former East Prussia, historically German territory, shown in brown) which was annexed from Germany, and Crimea which was transferred to Ukraine, and then invaded and annexed by Russia in 2014. But the question is more complicated/ambiguous than that, because Russia itself contains the so-called "autonomous republics" and "autonomous regions" where a great part of population, sometimes majority, is not ethnically Russian. The boundaries of these regions are not shown on this map. This mostly concerns North Caucasus, the place where the Germans penetrated furthest to the East. The "Russian" cities shown on the map are the following: (NW to SE) Petrozavodsk (Karelia autonomous republic), Pskov, Demiansk, Novgorod (on the boundary of the occupied zone), Rzhev, Vyazma, Smolensk (disputed between Russians and Belorussians, Poles and Lithuanians for centuries) Bryansk, Orel, Kursk, Belgorod (on the very boundary of Ukraine), Voronezh (on the boundary of the occupied zone). Then go (SE of Ukraine) Rostov, Krasnodar, Kerch (the region where Don Cossaks live, once all this was Ukraine) and Crimea peninsula (populated by Tatars, Ukrainians and Russians, currently occupied and annexed by Russia from Ukraine), Elista (autonomous Republic of Kalmykia, now part of Russia, in 1939 part of Russian republic), Stavropol (North-Caucasus Krai, with very mixed population. The large occupied region around Stavropol consists of 6 autonomous republics: Kalmykia, Dagestan, Chechen Republic, North Ossetia–Alania, Kabardino-Balkar Republic and Karachay–Cherkess Republic). All other cities in the occupied territory shown in this map are in Baltic republics, Belorussia, Ukraine, and Moldowa. Visually the pink part which is in the Russian republic of 1939 is about 1/4 to 1/3 of the whole pink part. But the regions occupied by the ethnic Russians is probably 1/5 of the pink area.