It rains because temperature decreases with altitude. This lapse rate means that moist air becomes saturated at some point in the atmosphere. You can see this point on somewhat cloudy days. While cumulus clouds have puffy tops, they have flat bottoms. Those flat bottoms reflect the point where the humidity level reaches 100%. Currently, only an extremely small fraction of the moisture in the air makes its way to the top of the thermosphere. The tiny amount of moisture that does make its way to the stratosphere can migrate throughout the stratosphere. The top of the stratosphere is unprotected from the nastier parts of the Sun's output. Ultraviolet radiation dissociates water into hydrogen and oxygen. Some of that hydrogen escapes into space. That lost hydrogen represents lost water. The Earth is currently losing about three kilograms of hydrogen into space every second. At that rate, it would take about a trillion (1012) years for the Earth to lose all of its waters. There are signs that the escape rate was significantly higher in the distant past. This is a byproduct of solutions to the Faint Young Sun problem. The signs of this early high escape rate are written in stone (serpentine, to be specific). Very old rocks have a different deuterium ratio that is currently observed. The escape rate will inevitably become significantly higher in the distant future as the Sun gets warmer and warmer. The Earth will eventually lose all of its water. 

The low pressure cell at the center draws surface air toward the center, gathering moisture from the warm ocean along the way. This flow is more or less isothermal. Humid air rises in the clouds around the center of the storm, releasing moisture along the way. This rise is more or less adiabatic. The now dry air at the top of the troposphere flows outward and radiates energy into space. This flow is roughly isothermal. Finally, the air falls in downdrafts at the outer edges of the storm. Like the updrafts near the eye wall, the flow in these downdrafts is more or less adiabatic. From here the cycle repeats. 

In theory, if the Earth was a solid object, the Chandler wobble would be easy to understand. It's simply a result of the polhode rolling without slipping on the herpolhode lying in the invariable plane. In other words, $\mathrm I \dot \omega + \omega \times (\mathrm I \omega) = 0$, where $\mathrm I$ is the Earth's inertia tensor and $\omega$ is the Earth's angular velocity. The Chandler wobble is simply the consequence of the Earth not having a spherical mass distribution and the Earth not having it's angular momentum and angular velocity coaligned. In practice, the Earth is not a solid object. The theory behind the Earth's orientation is rather (putting it mildly) complex. The best model involves over a thousand parameters. Unfortunately, this best model of the Earth's precession, nutation, and rotation does not explain the Earth's orientation. The Chandler wobble, along with a number of lesser phenomena, is an after-the-fact discrepancy between the very best analytic model and the very best observational results. Knowing the Earth's orientation is extremely important to some sciences, high resolution astronomy in particular. The US Naval Observatory (USNO) publishes its estimates of the deviation of the Earth's true orientation versus that of the best analytic models on a daily basis. The USNO is a key member of the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems (IERS, for short, and yes, the acronym doesn't work. It used to work.) 

Note the name of the Heart of Sky, Hurucan. Others translate that name as Juracán, yet others, Hurricane. That Mayan god may well be the source of the word "hurricane". Then again, that god might have been given that name based on an already existing word. Similar sounding words were used throughout Mesoamaerica and the Caribbean to describe what we now call hurricanes, and also to describe the god of the sky. Heart of Sky was a blood-thirsty god (many of the Mayan gods were blood-thirsty.) Two surviving Mayan stelae (carved stone monuments) depict a destructive event dated on one of the stelae as having occurred on June 3, 544 that depict whirling winds and pools of blood. That might well have been a hurricane. Then again, it might have been the ascension of a powerful king who aligned himself with Heart of Sky. 

It is very widely conjectured that the end Permian extinction event was caused by the Siberian Traps. This extreme volcanism may have triggered coal fires, thereby reducing oxygen levels. This remains conjecture. What isn't conjecture is that the end Permian event killed off almost all life extant at that time, including much of the algae and plants that produce oxygen. Without a continuous supply of new oxygen, oxygen sinks such as unweathered rock will inevitably result in a decline in oxygen levels. 

There are two key differences at the boundaries of the Pacific Ocean between the pre-ice age Earth and our current ice age Earth. One is the Indonesian seaway. That closed up 3 to 4 million years ago thanks to New Guinea, Indonesia, and the Malay Peninsula. The other is the Panama seaway. That closed up about 3 million years ago thanks to the formation of the Isthmus of Panama. The closing off of the Pacific near the equator drastically changed the global ocean conveyor belt, which in turn drastically changed the climate of the Earth. So which of these two seaway closures, if any, is the cause of the most recent switch from hothouse Earth to icehouse Earth? A number of researchers put the blame on the formation of the Isthmus of Panama (Bartoli 2005, Nie 2014). Others claim the closure of the Indonesian seaway was responsible (Cane and Molner 2001, Molner 2008). Yet others say "none of the above" (Lunt 2008). The jury is still out, but note that Smith and Pickering 2003 claim that plate tectonics are responsible for each of the four major icehouses in the last 620 million years. 

Suppose you don't have your house insured. When natural disaster strikes your uninsured house, you are fully responsible for the costs in getting your house repaired. If you have a mortgage on your house, you are still liable for paying that mortgage even if the house is reduced to rubble. An insurance policy transfers some of that risk to the insurer. Now they are liable for paying for a share of the repairs should disaster strike, assuming the damage is covered by the policy. You still have the risk that disaster never will strike your house. In that case, you would have been better off not getting that insurance policy. Insurance works in part because it spreads the risk around amongst all of the policy holders, the vast majority of whom are are not struck by disaster. Insurance can leave the insurer holding a lot of risk. This is where the concept of reinsurance comes into play. Insurance companies take out insurance policy with reinsurance agents, thereby spreading the risk around even further. 

This is an El Nino summer, and a very strong one and a very weird one at that. Weather patterns are messed up world-wide. Apparently a stable high pressure cell has set up that oscillates back and forth between just east of Barcelona to eastern Europe. France suffers when that high pressure cell is just east of Barcelona. That high pressure cell off Barcelona means France is in that thick of it. Moderately high temperatures and low humidity rule the day. The chance of rain is drastically reduced, and the chance of abnormal high temperatures is drastically increased. France suffers even more when that high pressure cell migrates to the northeast. Now the clockwise rotation of the high pressure cell carries extremely hot and extremely dry air from the Sahara towards France. If on the very odd chance that you do see clouds, and on the odder chance that you do see rain falling from a cloud, the odds are that you'll see the rain disappearing halfway to the ground. 

Very much so. It's called radiative cooling. Three factors come into play: cloudiness, relative humidity, and windiness. Nighttime radiative cooling is greatest under clear skies, low relative humidity, and light or no winds. The temperature drop (in degrees per hour) can be a factor of more than four greater under conditions of clear skies, low humidity, and light winds compared to that under conditions of thick low clouds and high relative humidity. That increased cooling can make for a significant temperature drop on a long winter night. 

The first of the cited reports in the question has the teaser headline "Flooding in Paris Maybe Due To Climate Change" -- but the link does not discuss that at all. The news report merely covers the fact that Paris is currently flooding. (Perhaps a once longer version did cover a potential link to climate change.) This is a disservice because a potential link between flooding in Paris and climate change does exist. In particular, climate change has roughly doubled the probability of severe flooding events in Paris. The second cited article is much better. It does not attribute the late December / early January cold snap in the US to climate change. It merely states facts. One fact is that many people (including the president of the US) see a cold snap as falsifying climate change. Another fact is that this is not the case. Climate change, aka global warming, does not say that winter will vanish. (Okay, some alarmists do say that. You need to ignore them, along with the deniers.) The natural variations in winter weather in temperate climates is huge. Climate change has not overcome these huge swings. We will continue to see cold snaps. 

Predictability: Does the flap of a butterfly's wings in Brazil set off a tornado in Texas? That was the title of Edward Lorenz's invited talk at the 139th meeting of the American Association of the Advancement of Science held in 1972. This is the origin of the term "butterfly effect". The catchy title suggests that the answer must be "Yes!" Why else ask that question? The bulk of the talk says the answer is "Nobody knows." "Nobody knows" doesn't jibe well with a sensationalistic, unscientific press. That a butterfly in Brazil might trigger a tornado in Texas does. Lorenz had discovered in 1961 that early 1960s weather simulations were incredibly sensitive to initial conditions. Did this mean the weather itself is incredibly sensitive to minute changes? That the answer to this question is also "yes" marked a very important discovery. Weather and climate are the quintessential chaotic systems. Lorenz's work marked the start of modern chaos theory. His seminal 1963 paper, Deterministic nonperiodic flow, has been cited 13479 times, per Google scholar. (In comparison, his 1972 talk has "only" been cited 345 times.) The vast majority of those 13479 citations came after his 1972 AAAS talk. Sometimes it takes a catchy title to catch the attention of a scientist. Taking Lorenz's talk literally, asking whether a flap of a butterfly's wings in Brazil truly can set off a tornado in Texas, misses the point of his talk and of his work. The key point is that weather is chaotic. The accuracy of a detailed weather forecast fourteen days from now is rather low because that two week interval is well beyond the relevant Lyapunov timescale for such detailed predictions. What about that butterfly? It's wing flap is a very small perturbation. It's rather difficult to say that that flap caused anything of significance to happen because the relevant timescale for such infinitesimally small perturbations is very short. 

By "winter", I assume you mean December, January, and February. The answer is "No!" Insolation varies on an annual basis outside of the tropics, one maximum and one minimum every year. This is not the case in tropical regions, where available insolation has two local maxima and two local minima every year. This effect is greatest at the equator. The graph below depicts available insolation at increments of 30 degrees latitude, from the equator to the north pole. 

The question specifically asks about finding a method of isolating wastes from the effects of weathering. That's not easy. Anaerobic bacteria find paper to be quite yummy. A deep ocean trench might work, but it would be better to not make paper in the first place. Growing and harvesting trash trees and then sending them into the deep would be more effective. A number of early geoengineering proposals suggested doing just that. There are big problems here, mostly unintended consequences. Deep sixing trees in deep ocean trenches is no longer viewed as a viable carbon sequestration scheme. 

That's a very bad impression, and your example is just not the case. Oxygen solubility in water at 0°C at one atmosphere of pressure is 14.6 mg/liter in fresh water, 11.2 mg/liter in salt water (35 g/kg salt). Those values correspond to 1036 pascals and 794 pascals, respectively. Oxygen solubility in water is highly temperature and pressure dependent. Like most (but definitely not all) gases, oxygen solubility in water is greatest at 0°C. Oxygen solubility comes very close to following Henry's law for typical pressures. Henry's law says that "at a constant temperature, the amount of a given gas that dissolves in a given type and volume of liquid is directly proportional to the partial pressure of that gas in equilibrium with that liquid." The constant of proportionality is not constant. It instead is a function of temperature and the nature of the liquid. 

Even more so. You wrote about the 1815 eruption of Mount Tambora. While that was an extremely large eruption in terms of written human history, it was rather tiny compared to the absolutely colossal volcanic events whose histories have been written in the rocks. Multiply the Tambora eruption by a factor of 10000 or more and you'll get things like the Deccan Traps and Siberian Traps. A number of geologists think that it was the formation of the Deccan Traps rather than the Chicxulub impact event that killed the dinosaurs. A much larger fraction think the combination of the two dealt a one-two punch that ended the reign of the dinosaurs. The Siberian Traps are still deemed by many, if not most, geologist as the leading contender for the cause of the Permian–Triassic extinction event. This was by far the most severe extinction event ever, much greater in impact than the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event that killed the dinosaurs. The lava released by the Siberian Traps covered an area the size of Europe (or larger, depending on who you read). It may have triggered massive fires in coal deposits, significantly adding to the greenhouse gases. 

In one word, dissipative. In multiple words, a system whose autocorrelation function tends to zero as time tends to infinity. Note that the autocorrelation function may not exist; this concept implicitly assumes a linear (or approximately linear) system. Consider a river. Adding a small impulse of water upstream (e.g., a not-too-large downburst) results in the river flow increasing briefly but eventually stabilizing to some nominal value. Adding a slightly larger impulse results in a similar but slightly larger response. But adding a huge impulse of water upstream (e.g., a very large and rapid snowmelt) may cause the river to carve itself a new channel. With this huge impulse, the flow at some downstream point will increase initially but then drop to zero and stay that way because the river no longer flows past that point. 

Yes, it's rare, but not for the reasons you think. The reason that tornados striking downtown areas is rare is that cities are but a tiny fraction of the land area in places where tornados most often occur, and downtown areas are but a tiny fraction of the land area in those cities. That said, downtown St. Louis, Missouri (the center of tornado alley) has been hit by tornados six times, and downtown Shrevesport, Louisiana (the center of Dixie alley), five times. The list of tornados that have hit the downtown areas of large cities goes on and on and on. 

The simple answer: Because it rains. The not so simple answer: By some estimates, the Earth has already lost about a quarter of its water, and it is predicted to lose almost all of its water in a billion or so years from now. 

Here's a somewhat different looking graph, from Oxygen and Evolution, Robert A. Berner et al., Science 316, 557 (2007): 

In asking about different surface materials, you are missing the big picture. If you want to understand global warming, simply look at the big picture you provided in the question. The Earth's surface receives more than twice as much energy in the form of thermal radiation from the atmosphere and clouds than it receives directly as sunlight. It's the greenhouse gases you need to focus on, not surface materials. 

That's because the tropopause, the boundary between the troposphere and stratosphere, is highest in equatorial regions. The high amount energy from the Sun in equatorial regions makes for a lot of convection, which in turn pushes the tropopause to about 16 km above the surface (and sometimes to 18 km) in those equatorial regions. Near the poles, sinking air and reduced solar intensity makes the tropopause much closer to the surface, where it is only 8 km or so high. The lapse rate in the upper troposphere is roughly the same as the dry adiabatic lapse rate, 9.8 °C/km. The 8 km difference between the tropopause height between equatorial and polar regions results in about 80 degrees more cooling in equatorial regions than polar ones. 

One of my favorites: The Columbia and Kootenay rivers. The Kootenay River initially flows southeast, parallel to the initial northwest flow of the Columbia River. The Kootenay passes within 2 kilometers of Columbia Lake, the source of the Columbia.