Natural nuclear reactors are a thing. If might be possible that there are large deposit of radioactive material deep in the Earth that gives sustained power output. It is however thought that there isn't enough radioactive material in the upper crust of the Earth any more to sustain any natural reactors today. 

Weather on Earth is generated by the thermal energy the earth gets from the sun. If the Earth was smaller but has the same gravity and atmosphere, one difference would be the surface area that can receive sun light. Another would be the temperature delta between the equator and the poles that acts as an engine and is what primarily drives the global weather systems. Having the distance be smaller between the source and reservoir can dramatically change the systems that forms. The real problem however with trying to figure out weather is that weather systems are chaotic in nature. Which means these systems can change drastically based on even minute differences in initial conditions. Even small changes can cause weather systems that are not stable in any way. Even if the Earth was 1% larger/smaller, the difference could be raging storms and runaway greenhouse to a cold dead world with little weather simply because solutions to these chaotic systems are extremely unpredictable. 

Outsource the NPCs to be controlled by people in poor countries is one option. One person can control a lot of NPCs. This is the idea is kind of like how in a classic tabletop RPG, the DM will play all the NPCs. This does make it a bit hard to coordinate and thus is not easy to hide. With using AI is that humans are pretty easy to mimic given the constrains of a game, we are probably only a few years away from chat bots that aren't that noticeably different from normal language and the calculations of running them in real time isn't actually that high even today. We can probably run a AI that passes the Turing test in the constraints of a game even today, people in MMORPGs don't actually need to be smart and don't even need to make sense to be honest. I'm sure if you put a bot in WOW that does farming and tie it to cleaverbot, people who have never used cleaverbot wouldn't be able to tell the bot isn't a real player. Each NPC also does not need an individual AI, 1 AI can easily control all the NPCs. The company would simply need a decent server to handle all the calculations needed. In 10 years or so, hardware advances as well as better trained AI should make these kinds of things pretty trivial. 

For less educated people, it's easy to correlate anything coming from the sky as coming from a divine source. Thus, it is quite possible that technology will be considered evil, and having too much of it would be risking the wrath of God. However, a large part of how things develop will depend on who survived the apocalypse. Religious groups surviving will believe it was the wrath of God, and will develop technology-free societies. What is deemed to be dangerous technology or not will be left up in large part to the leaders, and among those leaders you can get corrupt leaders who will classify certain technologies as safe for their own benefit, or pious leaders who may ban new things to protect their people. Well-educated groups that survive (or groups with well-educated members who are respected) will pass down a different story to their descendants. It sounds like the apocalypse was not entirely self-inflicted ("the final death blow came from the heavens"), so there may be an element of "the wrath of God", but the focus will be on the hubris of human ambition. These groups will attempt to bring technology back, but emphasize caution, studying the negative effects of what they do, and learning from the mistakes of the past. There is an immediate conflict between these two different ideologies—one wants to bring technology back (techies), while the other wants to prevent its return (luddites). This will encourage the techies to bring back technology faster, as they will desire to be able to protect themselves from the luddites. However, the luddites, even without technology, could easily overwhelm the techies if the luddites are more numerous and find the techies within a century of the end of the apocalypse. This could force the techies to hide, either in remote locations or secretly among the luddites. 

You will get less "nutrients" from what ever you propose than simply butchering the person and then eating all of the meat, organs and blood. At the end of the day, the person is only going to have so many calories in their body and human bodies do not produce calories from nothing. The end result is that you need to feed the human food to keep him alive. Not sure why you'd do this with a human, you can just eat human food and get more nutrients than you'd feed the human to keep him alive and then drinking his blood. 

Radiation shielding would be a slight plus but I don't know if the liquid would help with high acceleration more than air, pretty sure it can help a bit with deceleration but the actual acceleration would still have the same force on your body. The structural integrity is not likely going to improve as the pressure of keeping the liquid inside the ship while accelerating would probably be much greater than keeping gas inside the ship. My solution to not wanting air on a ship would be to keep humans inside specific rooms in cryosleep on ships. There should be very little a human need to do while being a ship like this and the travel time around the solar system with near future technology will still take years. 

Send an engine and scatter fuel along their path. As you may know, it takes a lot of energy to accelerate to or decelerate from relativistic speeds, and that the energy is proportional to the mass of whatever is being accelerated or decelerated. Also, don't forget that your fuel has mass, too, so any fuel that you are carrying contributes to your mass and makes it harder for you to accelerate or decelerate. So the ideal would be to send up an engine and scatter fuel along their path such that they will be getting just enough fuel to keep their engine going at max power (the engine will only have minimal extra thrust, so as to minimize it's mass). Note that the fuel needs to accelerated to almost the same velocity as the ship will be going when the ship reaches the fuel, otherwise the collision with the fuel will be unpleasant. The specifics of the engine and fuel will depend on what technology is available, but this basic idea can be adapted to a number of different types of engines and fuels. For example: A solar sail and a railgun: Using beam-powered propulsion, a solar sail (if the ship didn't already have one, which it easily could due to their usefulness) and a railgun would be sent on a path to perform a gravity slingshot around Jupiter (because the mission was timed such that Jupiter could be used in an emergency), then accelerated to match the ship's velocity. The solar sail would be deployed both to slow down the ship and to collect sunlight to generate electricity to power the railgun. The beam that helped accelerate the railgun would also be trained on the solar sail to provide additional power and deceleration. Then, the railgun would be fired as fast as it possibly can. It will be designed to be as flexible as possible in what it can use as ammunition, so at the beginning it will be using everything possible from the ship itself. Unused section of the ship? It will have been broken up and prepared for the arrival of the railgun. Spare parts? They're going in too. Everything nonessential will be fed into the railgun to simultaneously reduce the mass of the ship and to decelerate the ship. There's likely to be a fair bit of mass they can jettison like this - the ship needed considerably more for interstellar travel than it needs for travel just in the solar system. Thanks to careful calculations, the ship will reach the "fuel" path right as they run out of spare parts to jettison. For the railgun, this can just be chunks of whatever, likely an asteroid that has been broken up and scattered onto the path (avoiding the costly process of propelling that much mass out of the Earth's gravity well). There will be enough chunks for the railgun to continue firing at its maximum rate, but the ship will not collect more than what they need to sustain that rate. All of this is simply to decelerate the ship as much as possible. Once the ship is no longer traveling at relativistic speeds, other options will be much more feasible - a replacement propulsion section, a resupply or rescue ship, etc. 

Have each clone kill 2 people before they die and infect them. After about a month, you will have an army large enough to make you King of the world. 

Your liquid would probably be flammable as it would probably be oxygen based to support human life. Also decompression would still be a problem but it wouldn't be explosive. 

The ring will not generate any artificial gravity no matter what orbit you are at because the orbit is achieved when the angular momentum balances the gravity of the object you orbit. Which is why there is no artificial gravity on our space stations orbiting the earth. You can think your contraption is the same as a bunch of ISS attached together and no matter how you go about that, none of them will have artificial gravity from just orbiting. If you were to make the stations travel faster than they would in normal orbit and let the cables between them stabilize them instead, then you would achieve artificial gravity. The force the cables are able to stretch is the force of your artificial gravity. 

This kind of breathing is likely less efficient than just having a central system like the nose and lungs. Arthropods have a problem growing very large in real life and this is one of the reason why they might be limited. Back when the Earth was more oxygenated and there was less competition from other animals was when large arthropods existed. 

I have no clue, because humanity could quite possibly survive. Based on the effects of a vacuum on humans and animals, almost everyone will be dead within two minutes. If buildings don't have the air within them removed, people in large building in coastal cities may survive long enough for the boiling oceans to replenish their air before they die due to vacuum exposure. What about someone swimming in a large lake or the ocean? They're going to be rather surprised when the water they are swimming in starts boiling, but it's not going to burn them. An article I found with a quick search mentions this: 

Rather than changing how the sun behaves, I'd suggest something far less drastic - total cloud cover. Since magic exists, you could easily handwave it and say that somehow the clouds are thick enough to make it perpetually night. There would still be a day/night cycle of heating and cooling, even if very little visible light made it through the clouds, and it would also allow the other side of the mountains to be completely normal. Then your characters merely need to move the clouds to the other side of the mountains in order to change which side is light and which side is dark. Much simpler than trying to muck with the orbital mechanics of your planet. 

They can do it in seconds. "The group would know exactly how to find and assemble any items involved in the process of creating the machine." If their brain is programmed with what ever knowledge they need for making anything. Just make 1 of the 20 people the computer. The only real thing required will be a language to interact with the "computer" so that any one of the 19 other people using it can figure out what is happening, and since they already know everything they need to do, they can just do it. The "computer" can encode any information it wants into sound and the 19 people can decode the sound in their head into windows 1.0 UI. A person should be able to process any high level UI level command within a reasonable time with training, and since these people know everything they need, they should be able to do it. If above is not valid because they didn't create the machine. Then it would take 9 months for 2 of them to biologically create a new machine and then a couple years of training to get the machine programmed correctly. 

This one is tricky and probably not doable but if you were at the exact right place at the right time, your brain might be able to conduct lightning and kill you in the process. 

Suddenly, Edna realizes that her eyes are closed. She opens her eyes to find herself still sitting in her chair in the control room. Confused, she looks over at John, but he looks just as confused as her. 

So now the big question is how I go about recruiting members. I don't want to leave obscure hints out in the public--for example, the eye of providence on US dollar bills that some people say is proof of the illuminati--because that's likely to only attract conspiracy theorists who tend to be a little... unhinged. I need the members of my society to be clever, but they also need to be pretty mentally stable. Also, I'm not sure how I can make sure people will be committed to the society before it's been shown to them (if we are able to develop MIB-style memory erasers this will become much easier, but I'm not willing to make my plans depend on that). So how do I recruit competent members for my secret society in a way that will preserve the secrecy of my society and further its goals? Additional notes: 

Your best bet for a new type of power is figuring out how to convert mass directly into energy. The only way we know how to do this currently is with antimatter, but then you run into the problem of storing the antimatter. It would be believable that in 200 years' time we figure out a way to convert mass into energy without needing to use antimatter to do it. So how much better is direct conversion than nuclear power? According to a random source on the internet the bomb dropped on Hiroshima could have yielded 20 kilotons of explosion per kilogram of uranium if all of the uranium underwent fission. Using $E=mc^2$, for $m=1kg$ we get $E=8.987*10^{16}J$. A 20 kiloton explosion is $8.368*10^{13}J$. So if you can turn the uranium directly into energy, you get at least 1000 times as much energy out of it. Seeing how everything that we know about in the universe is made of matter, you'll never1 have to worry about running out of fuel. Also, you can really ruin someone's day if you can suddenly turn even a small section of their spaceship's hull into energy.