It is, the device is called a planimeter and it works because of... a whole bunch of terrifying maths 

This is a slightly tricky question - in that it's certainly plausable that some species could be ressurected, but probably not others (at least, not with technology as it stands). The easiest way - cloning from preserved tissue/cells. For recently extinct species that have close living relatives, cloning is one way get them back. You could take the nucleus from a normal 'body' cell in the preserved tissue and implant it in the egg or a modern relative of the original species (so called Somatic Cell Nuclear Transfer). Researchers tried this with a sub-species of goat that went extinct at the turn of the century, but failed. It's likely that part of the problem here, is that embryonic development of mammals depends greatly on cues from the mother - and the domestic goat used in these attempts may have been a poor surrogate. I gather the mammoth example cited in another answer is attempting to take the same route A harder way - creating a synthetic genome For most species that people would want to resurrect, well preserved cells or tissue just aren't avaliable. In these cases it might be possible to use ancient DNA techniques get genomic sequences (especially creatures that die in permafrost like mammoths!). The problem here is going from DNA sequences as letters on a computer to a physical genome. It's possible to make a synthetic bacterial genome, but even that had to be inserted into an existing cell. Inserting a eukarotic genome into the nucleus of egg cell would be much harder, because eukaryote genomes are (mainly) big, and packaging them into chromosomes is very complex (try to ignore the 90s webdesign there...). Once you'd done that you still have the problem of finding a surrogate the develop the eggs, or a machine to do the job. Not easy. It's possible we will eventually be able to do all this. But it's a long from the synthetic bacterial genome to there. 

Note that the average wheat eater normally doesn't care much about minerals, discarding most of them anyway with much of the fibre when making flour. Conclusion The claim is beyond ridiculous. It never was a goal in breeding to reduce the nutritional value of wheat. If it would have been a goal to reduce the nutritional value then breeders seem to have failed in reaching that goal. Sources: F. G. H. Lupton: "Wheat Breeding. Its Scientific Basis", Springer: Dordrecht, 1987. Muhammad Asif, Muhammad Iqbal, Harpinder Randhawa, Dean Spaner: "Managing and Breeding Wheat for Organic Systems. Enhancing Competitiveness Against Weeds", Springer: Cham, Heidelberg, 2014. 

These calculations and graphs and arguments seem to prove that factors like energy expenditure, oxygen requirement and the related oxygen-debt incurred have limits that are approached asymptotically. That a minority of scientists and a majority of lay persons conclude from this an absolute value as scientifically proven is plausible. But who really said the specific claim in question? One sports expert with a name: 

The Table Talk is purportedly a transcription from notebooks written in shorthand by at least two secretaries to Hitler, Heinrich Heim and Henry Picker, who were instructed by Hitler's right-hand man Martin Bormann to record for posterity whatever Hitler said in his bunker in Berlin, usually during meals or tea. In addition to official matters, they recorded things he said off the cuff, each logged by date and time (like "morning," "afternoon," or "evening"). So far all accounts agree. Beyond this is some confusion that an enterprising historian will some day have. That may be difficult, since much is said by Genoud and Trevor-Roper without a word as to how they know it. No sources or documents are cited. One might readily question the authenticity of such a text, given the conflicting versions and questionable chains of custody in this case and the abundance of other forged works purporting to reveal the secret thoughts or plans of Hitler. But it is likely the notes were real. There are two completely independent manuscripts, and a fragment of a third; and all agree in such a way as to corroborate the existence of a genuine original. The fragment consists of forty-two typed pages in the Adolf Hitler Collection at the U.S. Library of Congress, which are probably authentic. Scribbled in handwriting atop the first page of these is the brief remark: "Found by Mr. Jos. Schrasberger, München, Herzog Wilhelm Straße 4." This is probably part of the lost copy of the Bormann manuscript (discussed below). Finally, Werner Jochmann's edition of the text includes an introduction citing notes and letters confirming the Table Talk was indeed being made and collated during the war. Picker, of course, was an eyewitness to this affair, and says in his first introduction (33-34) that Heim had been authorized by Bormann to go beyond his official duty to transcribe Hitler's spoken orders and decisions and to include whatever else interested him, and this authority passed to Picker during Heim's brief absence. Picker says Hitler actually looked over his record on occasion and approved it as accurate, yet didn't realize how often these notes were being taken. He also reports that the official notebooks collated by Bormann were lost in the "confusion of the surrender." These would turn up a year later in Genoud's possession, and some pages from a copy of this apparently ended up in the Library of Congress. But Picker retained his own original notes and those made by Heim before him. Trevor-Roper's edition claims to be working from a version of the notebooks extensively edited and collated by Martin Bormann, called the Bormann Vermerke ("Bormann Notes"), which until recently existed only in the private collection of Franqois Genoud. Genoud relates in his 1952 preface that the thousand-page monstrosity had a note at front in Bormann's handwriting: Bitte diese-später äußerst wertvollen-Aufzeichnungen sehr gut aufheben, "Please preserve with the greatest care these notes of a capital interest for the future" (Jochmann publishes a facsimile of this note opposite his title page). According to Jochmann's introduction, these were to be the "official" notebooks, collated and edited from the originals by Bormann and published as a definitive party manifesto for the victorious Reich. Unlike Picker's, the Bormann text continues to 1944. Since Picker received his copy of the notes from Heim upon replacing him until Heim returned, he did not have access to the remaining notes taken after this tenure. Jochmann and Trevor-Roper (in the preface to his third edition) both relate (among many other details) that the Bormann-Vermerke was sent piecemeal from Bormann to his wife Gerda. Another copy reportedly went to an office in Munich, which was likely destroyed by allied bombing, apart from the pages recovered by Schrasberger. Gerda fled to Italy with her collection of the notes in 1945 and died there in a detention camp in 1946. A local Italian official then acquired the manuscript, which he sold to Genoud around 1948. That manuscript is the basis for Jochmann's text, as well as Genoud's and Trevor-Roper's translations. Which Version Should We Trust? There are so many published versions and editions of these notes I gave up attemp to track them all. In general, there are four major versions, each with its ow advocate: Henry Picker (1951, 1963, 1976), Francois Genoud (1952), H. R Trevor-Roper (1953, 1973, 2000), and Werner Jochmann (1980). Of these only two offer the original German (Picker and Jochmann). Genoud, a Swiss banker a lifetime Nazi, offers his own French translation. Historian Trevor-Roper presen the English translation of R. H. Stevens and Norman Cameron. From the isolated comparisons I made, Trevor-Roper's English appears to be an almost verbatim translation of Genoud's French. Yet the title "Hitler's Table Talk" is a direct English translation of Picker's title, not Genoud's, and Trevor-Roper's preface claims the translation was made from the German original of Martin Bormann. Genoud's version ends in 1942 (his preface declares an intent to publish the rest in a second volume, which never transpired), as does Picker's (who did not have any material beyond 1942), while Trevor-Roper and Jochmann continue with entries up to 1944. Assuming any published text is a genuine copy of these notes, Picker's edition (especially where it agrees with Jochmann) carries the strongest claim to authenticity. It contains the actual German, and was the first to be published, a year before Genoud, and though Genoud procured a lengthy but essentially trivial preface from Robert d'Harcourt of the Academie Franqaise, Picker had the involvement and auspices of a major university and Hitler historian: "Arranged on behalf of the German Institute for the History of National Socialism, initiated and published by Gerhard Ritter, professor of history at the University of Freiburg." Moreover, Picker was one of the actual stenographers (from 21 March 1942 to 2 August 1942), and thus transcribed many of the notes himself in the very presence of Hitler, making him an eyewitness with access to the notebooks of his predecessor Heim, which he says he acquired directly, bypassing the editing of Bormann. Picker's second and third editions also contain several testimonials to the text's accuracy and authenticity by fellow bunker officers, including Gerhard Engel, and also a testimonial by historian Walter Mediger who checked the first edition against Picker's own transcripts and "made corrections" accordingly, testifying to the accuracy of the new edition in relation to those notes. Picker asserted in his first edition that [translating Picker's German] "a sufficient number of the staff at the FHQ lives to be able to testify to the authenticity of the recordings of the table discussions, since Hitler spoke rarely at table on military affairs," and to demonstrate his personal knowledge he gives a detailed description of the bunker and meeting.[…] There may be a clue on the website of the controversial historian David Irving. He relates how Genoud attempted to hoax him in the 1970s with what appeared be a forgery of "Hitler's Last Testament," which Genoud published earlier. Irving even claims he got him to confess to forging this "testament," Genoud declaring in his defense "But it's just what Hitler would have said, isn't it?" Irving's story throws a lot of suspicion on Genoud as a man willing to perpetrate a hoax, thinking it permissible to fabricate the words of Hitler if it was what he believed Hitler "would have said." Such a man would likely have no scruple against altering and insert words and remarks into the Table Talk. Further study of Genoud's history and motives, and the nature of the distortions he introduced into the record, would be worthwhile. He appears to have been a very strange man with a colorful history: a Swiss banker and Nazi spy who laundered money for the Third Reich, a self-professed neo-Nazi right up to his suicide in 1996 (though never an open supporter of the holocaust), a voracious purchaser and profiteer of Nazi archives, and an admitted financer of terrorists."' But I will leave it to more able historians to explore the facts of his life. Whatever Genoud's motivation for doctoring the text, the fact that Stevens and Cameron's English translation matches Genoud's falsified French (as we shall see), and not the actual Bormann-Vermerke published by Jochmann, leaves many questions unanswered. Were they lazy? Duped? Accomplices in crime? Whatever the case, the Trevor-Roper edition is to be discarded as worthless.[…] It is sufficient to note that, whatever his beliefs were, they are distorted in Genoud, and these distortions among many others were retained in the text of Trevor-Roper. Yet that is the only English translation of the Table Talk in print, and few know how worthless it is. 

I don't think it would be impossible to find a community today with conditions that are fairly similar to those of 7,300 years ago, at least with respect to physical activity. There are uncontacted people in various parts of the world who do not enjoy our technological conveniences that reduce stamina. Such individuals probably have better cardiovascular health than a person with a desk job who doesn't exercise, but I don't believe they regularly beat professional athletes, unless they are scouted and put through formal training. Likewise, the average person from 7,300 years ago may have been in better shape than most non-athletes today, but I don't see any way that they could hold their own against modern people who have the luxury of building their lifestyle and diet around training for physical competition as well as 7,300 years of natural selection to their advantage. 

The statement is so vague that it could be technically true but mostly meaningless. It seems like typical mainstream media misrepresentation of science. Could some ancestors outrun some of the world's most talented athletes? Probably. A nomadic hunter could probably outrun a shot put champion, for example. However, I don't think prehistoric people with a time machine would sweep the 2016 Olympics. The article in your question links to another article that is itself a misleading representation of the original publication from the University of Cambridge. The study found that bone density decreased following the agricultural revolution, which implies a reduction in activity. The original article makes no mention of stamina whatsoever. Here's the quote that somehow turned into prehistoric people outperforming professional athletes: 

Currently there is some interesting research going on. As preliminary tests and studies the design problems encountered so far are forgivable. But since they were always present, no definitive answer can be given to that question. Even for other species of bacteria known, used and investigated since 1917 we do not have a complete picture of what they do or how they do it (Upregulation of Intestinal Mucin Expression by the Probiotic Bacterium E. coli Nissle 1917 (2012): The probiotic E. coli Nissle 1917 (EcN) has been reported to have various health benefits; however, very little is known about their underlying mechanisms.). The cereus group is much less well studied for basic functioning or health effects. (E.g. The putative drug efflux systems of the Bacillus cereus group (2017).) Brouchkov's own assessment in peer reviewed journals now says: 

Safety key facts, passenger safety key facts, workforce safety key facts, public safety key facts, train accident safety key facts: 

(As a rule of thumb, consumers must assume that at least every fourth animal product comes from a sick animal. They buy milk from cows with inflamed udders and eggs from chickens with broken bones. They can not realise this when shopping. Products of sick animals are regularly offered as "healthy" food.) The studies cited in this claim are to be found compiled here (in German). While the final number of 25% is an aggregate that varies 'naturally' from study to study and animal product to animal product it seems like a fairly good estimate of what is on the German/European market. While I haven't calculated the number myself, it seems far from "too high". It looks more like a cautious and conservative number, given the inclusion criteria for "sick animals". Lacking a statement of what kind of average was employed makes it even harder to definitively re-apply that calculation. Between the studies analysed the number of problems reported varied widely and included minor problems detrimental to the optimal well being of the animals up to major health problems that would render the products unfit for human consumption. Some reports done by those institutions involved in slaughtering animals do give numbers that sometimes more than half of the products had to be discarded because of various infections. The way these reports are compiled and used has a clear motivation. Primary concern is ending perceived and real cruelty towards farm animals. This clearly a vegan point of view. To that end the argument of sickness in animals is used to make a direct connection to the consumer. The rule of thumb amounting to 25% of all animal products on the market may be statistically correct. As a rule of thumb for practical consumer choice it is quite useless, since even organic farming methods were plagued with problems and the products on shelves are apparently indistinguishable for consumers. As an aggregate estimation this number of 25% mixes health and safety concerns for the consumer with denouncing disgusting practices and disgusting products with clear violations against animal rights legislation. Any given product might be ticking just one of those checkboxes or all at once. The perspective of consumer expectation is not only equivalent to depictions of happy cows on green pastures in commercials and on product packaging. This view is also mirrored closely by federal institutions in Germany, like the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture, that assures the interpretation is "correct" in so far that current practices ensure "Tierleistungen als auch die Tiergesundheit langfristig aufrecht erhalten." (Productivity of animals and health of animals are kept to high standard in the long term.) Compared to that an average of 25% sickness in animals across the board is very high and even the smaller numbers from the reports still contrast the suggested baseline of near 0%. The studies and reports used are not solely from animal rights activists and show a surprising number of problems for organic farming methods as well. Among the highlights found in those studies: Cows: 

I don't know about research as such, but acording to 'Get Thru' (a New Zealand Civil Defence website) doorways aren't the best bet, and it's better to get underneath a sturdy piece of furniture: 

EDIT since the question has changed a little. I don't know of any research directly in this area, but every expert earthquake saftey organisation I've seen explicitly says no to doorways and yes to "drop cover and hold on" (1,2,3,4[pdf],5) With regards to the 'triangle of life', New Zealand Cival Defence says 

That probably set off your skeptical-spidey-sense, and indeed wikipedia says cites an article (Walsh and Allen (1981) Weatherwise 212-215, not avaliable online as far as I can tell) that says they do no better than chance. In New Zealand we have someone similar in Ken Ring, who claims to be able to predict the weather using astrology (the moon in particular). He's also been tested and found wanting [disclosure: this is from an article on my own blog] 

Rory's answer is good, but I though i'd make it clear that there are really two different sorts of 'long range forecast'. To meteorologists, a long range forecast is about 7 days. Because the weather systems are chaotic (in fact, Lorenz who founded much of chaos theory, did so as a result of his work on weather forecasting) the longer out you go the bigger the uncertainty gets and meteorologists wouldn't claim even their 7 day forecasts are incredibly accurate. Then there are forecasts like the Farmer's Almanac who make predictions more than a year our, using in their own words 

Some scholars will tell you that the evidence for a David, even a dynasty founding king David, might be there. Sonny Ordell's answer lists the sparse and weak evidence we have for that. But the way you phrased the question poses an additional difficulty: the listed qualities attributed to that King David cannot be all true. The archaeological evidence for the vast territories conquered in the time to be considered are just not there, the exact situation and circumstances for the establishment of the dynasty, its predecessors or the changing status of Jerusalem are all unclear outside of the biblical references themselves. Sometimes current research findings directly contradict the claims made about that time in the bible. In such a case the conflicting evidences have to be weighed against each other for plausibility. 

It is however unfair to give credit to only one guy, when this really was a result of a large team work and a series of improvisations. Plans to recruit or impress civilian ships were already in the drawers and ready to implement before the crisis unfolded. This was done under Ramsay's orders. But the speed at which the ports were lost meant that all those big transport ships already on the list of the admiralty were of little use for the evacuation from the shallow beaches. Then Ramsay was contacted by Captain Wharton, head of the small vessels pool, who had already spotted 40 little ships available for coastal embarkment along the Thames on his own, without orders. And again Captain Tennant landing at Dunkirk and being the senior naval officer there signalled back, to now: 

It seems reasonable that earphone use would increase bacterial growth, because covering the ear would provide reduced airflow, increased humidity, and limited light, which are favorable conditions for bacteria. I've found a publication related to this issue, although it does not come from a journal with a high impact factor. (Actually, I couldn't find its impact factor.) The article concludes that earphones can cause increases in bacteria with regular use, and they suggest that sharing earphones is a potential disease vector. 

From A Comparative Analysis of Bacterial Growth with Earphone Use. If we can accept the notion that using earphones can increase levels of bacteria present in the ear, then sharing earphones certainly seems like a feasible method of transferring some of those bacteria. In fact, even if we assume that earphone use doesn't increase levels of bacteria, sharing earphones could still be a potential disease vector, as there could still be transmission of the bacteria that are normally present in the ear, some of which could cause infection. As a further note, I found another study looking at ear infection and hearing problems among customer service reps at a specific company. However, the experiment had no control group, and the inferences and conclusions leave much to be desired. I'm somewhat suspicious that the research may have been funded by the company, as the only emphasized outcome is that they found no association between hearing loss and headphone use. I will share the link to disclose what I have found, but I certainly don't endorse the source: Ear Infection and Hearing Loss Amongst Headphone Users 

No. The court cases are not represented accurately. The denialist Stefan Lanka promised to pay 100 000 Euros to anyone that provided him proof that a measles virus causing the illness exists. Soon after a Mr David Bardens sent 6 publications to Lanka doing just that. Lanka refused to pay out. In 2014 Bardens sued him and the local court (Landgericht Ravensburg) sentenced Lanka to pay. Bardens had to hire bodyguards for fear of anti vaccination fanatics. Of course Lanka wasn't happy to be proven wrong and forced to pay. So he appealed that decision. And won this. Because his competition offer was formulated so "that someone please sent him just one scientific article that proves that measles exist". Bardens sent 6 so Lanka won this time on technicalities, although for fear of jail he did pay in the meantime. The term "just one" is used here to clarify how Lanka surely meant his challenge and how everyone including Bardens understood it. The German eine is ambiguous as an indefinite article or a numeral. That Lanka wanted one and just one single paper, containing all criteria Lanka demanded fulfilled at the same time, only came up in court. The chronology of the antics of this case up to that point are documented here: The Bardens vs Lanka Case | Chronolgy and documentation This time Bardens apealed that decision and unfortunately the highest court Bundesgerichtshof (Federal Court of Justice) rejected that appeal on Jan 26 2017, so that the previous decision on prize competition technicalities still stands. The formalities of the 'competition' were set by Lanka:1