I raced USCF category 2 back in the day, and I'm assuming you're not talking about general pressure from the seat itself and are using normal high end cycling shorts/pants/bibs. Personally I would ensure that I'm able to do barbell squats for my bodyweight (the weight on the bar totalling your bodyweight) comfortably with a good stance. That puts a lot of load on your adductors: if you haven't trained up your barbell squat you definitely want to start at a lighter weight and dial it up over time. Progression wise I'd try something like this: 

I'm familiar with the general idea of adaptation and super compensation, and the loss of strength if your body doesn't feel you need it anymore because the increased load isn't present. I've been strength training for a while, and have generally rolled my eyes at body builders doing isolation work on machines. I joke with my friends that "every day is bicep and chest day" for those guys. But I'm about to hop off a 12 week 5x5 Bill Starr program and would like to mix in something else just to break up the routine a bit. I was considering doing the compound lifts in the hypertrophy rep-range as opposed to the strength/power range. I don't want to make it a main stay of my training, but I thought it would be a fun way to train different with different goals and results for a few months. If I train for hypertrophy for a few months, do I lose that size (eventually) when switching back to strength/power? Personal experience would be fine, but if there's any research available that would be great too. 

The largest "neck muscle" to grow is the distal levator scapulae, followed by the trapezius, shown below. All three of those exercises above directly involve the largest muscles in your neck in a safe way. Plus, they're great for a bunch of other things as well. Simply put, you're not going to be deadlifting 500 pounds, benching 315, or cleaning 225 and have a skinny neck. 

This stackexchange site frequently closes questions because people are asking questions that require a qualified medical practitioner. Recently, I have my own question that I think falls into that category. I've spoken to my general practitioner doctor and it's clear she's not a sports medicine doctor. She would much rather have me tone down my ambition rather than help me push. Between physical therapists, sports medicine doctors, and whatever else is out there, what should I look for and how should I go about finding a good sports medicine practitioner? I have my fitness goals, I want to pursue them, and I need a medical practitioner in my corner that has experience with people pushing their bodies hard in a safe way. Will any spots medicine doctor do? Are there things I should ask or look out for? 

Going to the gym every other day for 3-4 months is a pretty tough schedule to be honest. Hopefully you've seen some great results but that's a tough program if you've stuck with it and really given it your all. For me the point of fitness is to be able to (a) live a long and healthy life and (b) to let me use my body for a variety of things. You may want to consider dropping down to lifting twice a week for an hour a pop, maybe on Mondays and Fridays, and then doing some sports a few days a week. Racquetball, soccer/football, volleyball: anything that keeps you moving and is new and different. If you lift twice a week you won't really get sore and you'll maintain your strength and maybe even bump it up a notch. It's only two hours out of your week and it frees you up to do other things. I live in the mountains so come winter time I spend a lot of time snowboarding and my weight lifting drops to twice a week. But I have way more fun and come spring I didn't really lose much strength. 

I've had pretty good success getting a few buddies together to train for an event in 6-12 months. I've trained for power lifting, Olympic lifting, and a few half marathons. With all of those I had the mental reminder that I was either going to show up and do well or show up and embarrass myself, which is decent motivation for me. But with each one I was also able to find like minded people. I have a few gym friends and fitness people tend to gravitate towards each other. If you have a buddy that might be up for doing some regional level competition, I'd go with signing up for something in your area. Pick an event, then sit down and come up with a training plan. Bill Starr 5x5 for power lifting, any number of running programs for half marathons, etc. It's not hard to find good training programs, it sounds like you mainly need a kick in the motivation pants which you might get from having a goal to shoot for. 

Any conversation that doesn't directly address the overarching signifigance of your diet and nutrition would be incorrect. It is far easier to not eat 200 calories than it is to burn them off. As an example, a 6 minute mile will burn (for a 180lb person) roughly 190 calories: that's a tremendous amount of work for relatively a relatively small caloric drain. Specifically answering your question though, I would look at it this way: Strength training has shown, especially for men, a very high change in RMR (resting metabolic rate) as seen in this 2001 study: 

Provided you're in a country with access to melatonin, you should consider buying some before you leave. Worst case scenario is you're flying to a county that sells it, and then you can take it once there. The only other advice I can offer up is just to be gentle to yourself in the first week. Your sleep will likely be jeopardized, so you'll be operating on reduced testosterone, growth hormone, and general concentration. Not a great time to really be hitting your maximums. 

You want to beat up your body enough to cause adaptation, but not so much that you over stress beyond what you can physically repair. If you start training harder, stay on the safe side and put in more complete days off. It's worth remembering that you get slower and weaker when training, you get faster and stronger recovering from training. 

Depending on what you mean by "agility", if you consider someone like an NFL running back, this definition works well: 

Regardless though to answer your question I've felt the same problems dropping in and out of ketosis although what I have found is that (for me) if I manage to have most of my days with long spells of extremely low carbs, and the carbs I take in tend to be higher GI, the re-adjustment is minimal if at all. The rough number is ~50grams of carbohydrates per day, persisted for a few days, to switch your body into ketosis. Some folks are lower and some are higher. I'm at a loss to explain the time lag for ketosis with your results unless your carbs were much higher than you thought, your body is much different than most studied, or some other variables are going on (and since we're talking about human biology, that's entirely possible). 

Plus, they're portable and relatively cheap. For several years of my life (living in a developing nation) I got by with some gymnast rings and a kettlebell. 

"Fitness" is a fairly broad term, but I'd provide a boiled down definition that it means your body's ability to handle physical exertion. Exertion comes in all shapes and sizes (moving a piano, walking across a city, etc), so being "fit" enough to do those things depends on the type of training and conditioning you're doing. Most people want to train in such a way that maximizes the benefits across multiple categories like fat loss, improved image, being less injury prone, reducing illness, and increased general athleticism. Additionally, training is built on the concept of adaptation, and adaption is specific. Again, most people are best served by picking the training (that requires your body to adapt) that yields the most benefits with the shortest amount of time. This is what divides effective fitness programs from less effective ones. 

You probably have enough protein in your blood at that point. Follow my math on this. With the exception of whey, which is rather fast-absorbed, most natural sources of protein take somewhere in the neighborhood of 3-7 hours to be broken down, so protein is slowly being released from your gut, broken into amino acids, and sent into your blood. So if you had ham and eggs at 6 in the morning, even by noon (6 hours later) you still have amino acids moving around in your blood. If you slammed a whey shake at 10 in the morning, you have a lot of amino acids rushing around come noon time. The general idea for "eat protein every few hours" is to have a steady state of amino acids rushing around through your blood since repair work is done slowly over a period of hours and days. Directly answering your question: You probably are not going long periods without protein. Provided you have a balanced diet, enough protein, and eat throughout the day (don't sweat the details on that part), you've got amino acids floating around able to keep up. I'm a big believer in supplements, but they're not magic beans, and I don't like how the marketing spin makes people think that if they don't use a tub of powder every day they'll shrivel up to a 120lb weakling.