Summing up, I do not see a relation between Anaximander’s apeiron and Plato's Theory of forms. Even less, I consider the three concepts apeiron, idea and thing-in-itself three different concepts, incomparable, unlinked, each on a different conceptual level. At the most, I consider apeiron a kind of hyle. 

According to utilitarism your last implication is right "If surveillance doesn't increase happiness of the public, then it would be immoral." But the problem is to determine which kinds of surveillance are to be considered and which additional effects - possibly increasing security - also result from surveillance. Not until answering these questions one can decide, whether surveillance should be terminated or continued. 

In quantum theory we face the problem that the objects of our study are not mesocosmic objects. Objects like electrons are not already known to us from our daily experience. Quantum mechanics does not deal with objects familiar to us from simply viewing. In general, microcosmic objects are strange to us and incomparable to familiar mesocosmic objects. Science starts with a working definition of the objects in question, e.g. an electron is a particle with a negative electric charge, a mass small compared to the mass of an atomic nucleus, and it is found in the atomic shell. Later the characteristics are refined and the object can be captured in a formal way: Electrons are described by the Dirac equation, the interaction of electrons with light is described by quantum electrodynamics. These equations need some parameters as input, in the case of an electron: rest mass, electrical charge. Later one finds other parameters from the theory: spin, lepton number. In addition there are some free parameters like position, momentum. I understand what you mean when naming the former intrinsic and the latter extrinsic properties. But I would avoid such concepts from tradition because with quantum mechanics we are entering a totally new domain. You give an example when alluding to the fact, that in scattering experiments one has to abolish any concept of "conservation of individuality". Coming back to your original question: We do not know whether an electron is a substance with accidental properties, or whether an electron is just a bundle of properties. I prefer a pragmatic and - temporary - working definition: 

This is the sign of their burning desire for freedom from a suffocation. [Some people might feel like suffocation in their religion]. The first thing they could do is to get out of this nervousness. 

In this question you have presented men as helpers or saviors. Here I am not trying to answer this question directly; but some clues for thought. Who have more right to kill a cow, to men or to carnivorous animals? 

1. Sometimes we use the term 'absolute answer'. But I don't agree with the usage 'absolute answer' because in most cases we can analyze that answer further and find out another cause/answer. Then the first answer won't be the absolute answer. But for convenience we should consider it as accurate; even though it is not the absolute. Just for an example, take these two questions--1.Who invented TV? 2.What caused the First World War? After you got the answers to these questions ask these questions--1."Did he make all the parts and the materials for the parts by himself?" 2."Was that the only cause?" Would they be the absolute answers even though you didn't ask these questions? If the question is from the earth and the answer is from another distant galaxy some present events will be taken as past events. In this case also the absolute answer changes. But we should ignore such possibilities and should consider them as accurate. 

Prayer should be for uplifting (the person, persons, society, .... the whole world etc.) from a 'lower level' to a 'higher'. If one can do this without praying, that is enough. But that person must be a 'real seeker' in all its aspects. Many men who realized the Ultimate truth were not 'believers in God' at their younger days. 

Have you ever thought about the cause of her death? And which soul/souls (according to your definition) might have influenced her death? Which soul would you consider when you try to find out its root? If you, other readers and me were mere embodiments we wouldn't be able to communicate (so precisely) with each other without much difficulty. So the word--'soul' must have a greater meaning. Otherwise it would only be a four letter word. To define it there must be something similar or imaginable. This is the main difficulty that most people face. So others will call it a mere nonsense. Don't worry. This will be helpful to know more about the inadequacy of your question. 

Your question has two different aspects, a historical aspect and a methodological one. 1) Historical: What did Ockham say? As Mauro explains, the statement „Among competing hypotheses, the one with the fewest assumptions should be selected.“ cannot be found literally in Ockham ‘s work. Instead, according to SEP Ockham advocated the following position: 

Aristotle conceives that citizens can become friends (philoi) of each other, hence live peaceful, and do not need further regulations by law (justice = dikaiosynae). 

Your post aims at the core of both the philosophy of mind and neuroscience. Possibly you are just entering this field (“out of the blue”). Therefore I would like to recommend to you some sources for further study: 1) Christof Koch: Consciousness - Confessions of a Romantic Reductionist, 2012. Koch approaches consciousness from the viewpoint of cognitive science and neuroscience. His book mixes personal memories with a discussion of scientific investigations. Section 3 presents different viewpoints on consciousness. Section 8 centers around his preferred approach, which takes consciousness as integrated information according to the corresponding theory of Guilio Tononi. The latter aims at grounding the concept of consciousness in informatics by a mathematical theory of information processing. 2) Paul Thagard: Mind. Introduction to Cognitive Science,1996 The book is a textbook from the philosophical side. 3) Susan Blackmore: Conversations on Consciousness, 2005 The book collects conversations with several researchers from neuroscience or philosophy of mind. When reading about cognitive science I find it helpful to distinguish always two viewpoints: Does the author speak from the viewpoint of first person, the subjective stance? Or does he speak from the viewpoint of third person, the objective stance? The main challenge is to correlate the sense of self with the results of scientific investigations. Returning to your original question: I do not consider consiousness a capability to make mental images. I prefer to view the content of our conscious processes a mental construction. 

Kant's categorical imperative states Act only according to that maxim whereby you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law "Acting out of the duty to help others" without any other intent satisfies Kant's maxim. Hence it is ethical in the Kantian sense. Aside: I'm no competent to make out whether the above maxim was actually the intent of Robin Hood as portrayed by the English folklore. 

Mu In short, asking about religion in the context of philosophy without defining your terms does not a good discussion make. 'Dogma' requires definition, for us to tell if atheism has that/is that or not. 'Religion' would probably benefit from definition, given that you ask "Is atheism supposed to be only anti-religious". 'Atheism' most certainly would benefit from definition. Depending on the definitions you propose, the answer can be quite different. In many cases, atheism has dogma, meaning that it is a perspective or system of belief (and, obviously, has foundational tenets in these cases). In other cases, atheism is a dogma prescribed as foundational for certain systems of belief/perspectives on the world. In other cases, atheism is neither a system of belief nor a belief and thus neither has nor can be dogma. In yet further cases, dogma isn't necessarily entailed by a system of belief, so atheism can be a special unicorn system with no dogma. In still other cases, things are defined unconventionally and anything can happen. 

(from the Catechism of the Catholic Church) Now, we must find a thought with a morally good object, end, and circumstance (which here means something that is a superset of typical usages for 'consequence'). Any such thought will suffice, because our definition of 'immoral' requires only that an action be "deemed improper by the modi operandi of a given society" and societies are quite capable of deeming anything improper. Most readers, I think, will agree at least one of the following suffices: 

I believe this to be a reasonable definition for this question's purposes as you give examples from a Judeo-Christian background, though it is possible, given your very unusual choices for the definitions of other terms, that this is an error in premise. 

Of course It's not so bleak, though. So, you and the people you are speaking with here seem to be defining 'faith in something' equivalently to the belief that there exists intrinsic value; that is, to have faith in something here seems to mean that one acknowledges the intrinsic value present in that thing. Deific adoration, then, presupposes faith, since it is necessary to acknowledge God's intrinsic value to worship Him. Moreover, though, faith 'in something else', if it is to be differentiated from the ordinary faith of expectation, is most reasonably understood as a holding of that 'something else' in the place of God (c.f. idolatry). Since to take something as God requires the attribution of the intrinsic value due God, this, too, seems to map well. Given that that is the definition we are dealing with, it should be no surprise that faith is necessary to avoid perceived meaninglessness; indeed faith is definitionally that which is necessary for meaningfulness! So, the statements made by these speakers are true, but vacuously so. They don't really reflect on the nature of Man's relationship to God nor Man's need for that relationship, and neither do they say anything which legitimately concerns mass shootings, depression, or the other Scary Social Things that they mention. They merely say "If you believe that anything has intrinsic value, then you don't believe that there is nothing of intrinsic value", and also "If you believe that there is nothing of intrinsic value, then you don't believe there is anything with intrinsic value", both of which are obviously true. The problem is that the speakers are trying to imply things that may or may not be true via other meanings and implications attached to the specific words employed. Essentially, those points which are argued by implication ('suicidal acts of violence are the result of not having enough faith', for example) are argued only via equivocation. 

Correlation and causality are not the same: Correlation is a fact which stems simply from observation - like in your nice example. On the opposite, causation answers in addition the question: Why? To answer the Why-question means to give an explanation for the observation. An explanation should be more general than one specific observation. It should cover several cases, also cases not yet observed (predictive power). The best explanations are scientific theories. They allow to derive a lot of phenomena from few general assumptions. Unfortunately I do not know a simple and striking definition of causality. Aside, in your figure 35.000 should be replaced by a different value. Do you use a logarithmic scale? 

In many cases the psi-function does not make a deterministic predict about the outcome of a single experiment. It predicts only the probability of all different outcomes when the experiment is repeated several times with the same preparation. The typical example is the decay of an radioactive atom. A widespread interpretation of these results is the Kopenhagen interpretation, which considers QM a complete theory and this type of probability an inherent property of nature. But today this interpretation is continously questioned, e.g. by the many world interpretation according to Everett. 

I assume the point of your interesting thought experiment is your premise that the entities you consider feel and think like humans. In other words: There is no difference between the human species and the robot species besides the way both came into life. Framing the question in this way one can ask: Is there any argument for a species specific ethics? I do not see any argument. A related question is the discussion about extending certain human rights to non-human primates. Probably one get also some ideas from Stanislaw Lem's work on robot ethics. 

Today, the impact of Descartes’ doctrines like the doctrine of most other philosophers is restricted to academic philosophy. Outside of the academic world philosophical doctrines from epistemology do not play any role – different than thoughts from ethics and political philosophy. Nevertheless Descartes has a certain impact on present academic philosophy: 

If there is a term--'Vedanta' (the limit of knowledge) and many great men have used it, your doubt is true. You can verify whether the term 'Paramahamsa' refers to any kind of improvement. $URL$ 

The first clause of your question is misleading and unwanted. Why? We are living in a world created by our senses. And for normal perception mind must function properly. We are able to prove something only when we are in waking state. And in no time the mind begins to do its function without any break. This means mind interferes while proving anything. But some people realize existence in the 'fourth state' of consciousness called 'Thuriya'...without any disturbance of mind. See this also: $URL$ Only such people know what the only reality/existence is. But others can argue against it more vigorously, since they are very great in number. If elected they will certainly win. See the 2 possibilities: Either... (Category 1) Those who knew existence...are in delusion. [So we can't believe their words.] or... (Category 2) Those who didn't yet know existence...are in delusion. [So we can't believe their words.] You may argue for a third possibility also: "Both are wrong." Certainly one of these two categories must be in delusion. But how can we know whose way is real? (or way of Category 1 is real? or Category 2 is in delusion?) We (others) know that the words of Category 1 is true, not at the time they realize existence...but after realization...sometimes after their death...sometimes when we realize ourselves...sometimes when science reaches closer and closer to that findings. [Read the Hyperlink given above.] 

We would be in confusion if we think that real beingness is a part or the totality of sensual perception. So we should discard this attitude first. There is only one beingness; I mean, what you meant as being must be the immutable all-prevading beingness. Actually this real being does not prohibit anything because there is no chance of another being (as you mentioned here). I have clarified it already. Now you might have understood that the problem became complex because of the usage 'being'. If you had omitted that word you could have avoided the confusion. Now your main question: