But Ibn Sina ridicules the idea of non-existants existing - this is a classical view going back to Parmenides, which he elaborated in his poem On Nature; Ibn Sina offers similar arguments. 

is interesting, given that Robert Brandom calls himself broadly a Pragmatist, and according to this interview, is: 

Dasein is defined as that Being that cares about being. Thus to no longer care is no longer to be Dasein. "Is the idea that we can establish the meaning of our death"? I don't think that this is Heideggers concern with authenticity. At least its not mentioned by Innes in the entry for authenticity; its remarked on in his entry on Being; and then not even as a separate entry and not hugely relevant: 

The notion of a 'brain-in-vat' is a vivid way of describing using imagery from science fiction a traditional problem of philosophy: that is, is all that that there is are minds. In traditional philosophical terms this position is a form of idealism. From the empirical view, we see brains do need 'sensory input'. 

Kant is interested in space as you see it when you open your eyes. When I look out of my window I do not see parallel lines meeting at infinity (perspectivally we do, but that is a completely different question). Kants isn't investigating either theoretical questions of geometry nor of space & time - he's more concerned about our immediate perception of space & time. He's specifically interested in where consciousness meets space and time (not the two together - that is spacetime - we don't immediately perceive the space time metric). No doubt he would have been interested in the theoretical possibility of non-euclidean geometry and also of the curvature of physical space-time had they been discovered then - he had been scientifically inclined until he moved decisively towards philosophy. In fact it was Humes critique about the possibility of science that woke him up from his 'dogmatic slumber'. 

If the distinction of qualia holds then one must explain causality between two differing substances. If the observation of causality holds, then one must explain why qualia is not essential. 

Is this the locus classicus of the notion of essence, or is it an artifact of translation? And if so, are the attributes mentioned the generally understood attributes of essence; that is its understood negatively: colourless - so without quality, formless - so lacking form, intangible - so not matter. As matter is that which has the potential to be changed, and can in fact be changed, then one might add that it's changeless. This then, is in contrast to 'existence', which according to the above extract is the arena for 'generation' - coming to be & ceasing to be, and relation; the two of which, I take, stands as standins for Aristotles categories which exhaust all the ways things actually are; and also are almost synonymous with change. This is also called the sublunary sphere by A; does this mean that the above should be the supralunary sphere, or should it be celestial sphere given Platos myth of the cave? Finally, is essence also identified with knowledge here? As in the notion of nous? 

It's a little too easy in my mind to confuse Platos notion of the Good, from which the forms emanate from, of which one is the Beautiful, and the other is Justice; with other notions in ethics - ie Christian, or conventional everyday use that's it would be useful to have the Greek terms for these that Plato uses. Also, does Plato use the term One as a synonym for the Good? And is his word for this the same as Parmenides? 

In first order logic: P(x) is has a free variable - x. has no free variables, x is bound by the existential operator. This is what is normally called a closed formula or a sentence. Sentences are a key concept in model theory as they allow for well-defined truth values. A set of sentences is called a theory; any individual sentence is a theorem. Model Theory resolves traditional logic into two separate pieces - a syntactic form with rules of deduction (so formal proofs can be established) together with an interpretation that establishes truth. (This Setup can then be generalised to an arbitrary logic/grammar/theory with an interpretation). Kant is NOT talking about formal mathematical logic. Existence and attribute is much more than the syntax embodied by a formal language. Generally speaking truth values are asserted in a model that interprets this formal language. This is where perhaps where ideas of existence and attributes may fit in with classical model theory. In your example you're implicitly interpreting the formal language into the English language. You still have the problem of extracting what is exactly meant by attribute and existence. Phrasing it in formal logic doesn't change matters. IN FACT, even in traditional model theory this act of interpretation still occurs outside of the model-theoretic framework elaborated above. That is phrasing the debate in first order logic or model theory is a red herring. It adds nothing essential to the debate. Mathematical logic and model theory are interesting for altogether different reasons. I'm by no means an expert in this area - but it seems that Kant is referring to substance theory. Note in particular this 

Omnes Quantum Philosophy is excellent; he's worked on the consistent history interpretation of QM, which this book is an exposition of, but without the messy technical details. He claims it solves most of the outstanding paradoxes to do with the two-slit experiment, but admits it fails to resolve fully measurement; the exposition begins with a dramatisation where he is questioned by the philosophers of ancient Greece, and goes on from there. Another, is Penroses Cycles of Time, which I'm currently reading but haven't finished; his discussion focuses on how cosmology interacts with the 2nd law of thermodynamics, which he considers a deep question but with little serious work done. He also begins with a dramatisation, but this time, with an everyman Tom with his aunt Priscilla, who happens to be an astophysicist on a mountain looking at a river ... and it too goes on from there. 

There are schools of comparative literature/philosophy that take this as their starting point; people like Gayatri Spivak, Pankaj Mishra who also have written under the term post-colonialism, though Spivak explicitly identifies herself as European philosopher - her philosophical orientation being French post-structuralism, mainly and mostly Derrida; also Mark Siderits, and Jay Garfield, who study Buddhist Philosophy, through a Western formation; also too, David Loy on Vedantic non-dualism. The canonical great philosophers such as Hegel, or Kant were surely able to intuit the universal - for Kant, his Perpetual Peace, for Hegel, the Absolute; or poet-philosophers such as Tagore, Lorca, Neruda and Darwish. For example, Tagore, writing in British administered Bengal in India, explicitly insists on being the heir to three great traditions: the Persian-Islamic through the Mughals, the European through the British presence, and Indian - indigenously. If Capital is the material become universal, ie global; then one might posit, as a countervailing force, the Ideal, become universal; i.e. comprehensive, ecumenical and whole. 

Consider an adult, say a man, remove him from the bosom of the state - that is place him in solitary confinement - and he becomes like 'stone' - ie destroyed as a human being (often such confinement causes serious disturbance to the psyche - ie psychosis & sociopathy) 

Consider a teleportation booth which exactly replicates ones body and mind in Mars, whilst destroying that on Earth; as in Parfits Reasons and Persons. There is only one you at any one time; so where you are is easily tracked - at one point you were on the Earth, and at another later time, and suddenly you were on Mars. But, suppose at a critical moment the machine breaks down and so there are two yous, one on Earth and the other on Mars. Which one is really you? Of course they both behave differently, after all one is on Mars and the other is on Earth; and thus faced with different circumstances that are immediately present; still each responds to the same name, claims the same woman as his wife (and another as his mistress); has the same memories of college, and of playing football on a field by a stony beach that ran out to a cold sea; and though they wear different clothes; they wear recognisably similar fashion choices; and their mannerisms would be familiar to their friends. So which is the real you? The conclusion to Descartes cogito is 'I am'; this sense of inner awareness; how can this be at different places separately? One could for example, consider a conscious AI who had an avatar here on the earth and another on Mars; but his conscious would be unitary; his avatars, in a sense are mechanisms for perceptions and acts. But we have two quite distinct persons, who are also the same. If consciousness is unitary - perhaps this means that, in fact, no such machine is possible - and it is in fact just science fiction, whose fictional ontology is just that - fictional. Is this a sensible conclusion to take? 

This sounds, on the face of it, similar to Platos critique of poetry in the Republic where he critiqued poetry, as mere imitativeness - a kind of mimicry of reality, and not reality itself; for; and what goes for poetry, goes for the other arts by analogy, as a Plato makes explicit by drawing the analogy to painting: 

Generally Quantum mechanics divides a system into what is to be observed and an observer. This is usually taken to be some macroscopic measuring device (sometimes taken to be some human being in which a special role is assigned to consciousness). But why restrict it to a macroscopic entity? Why not simply another particle? Now, is there a good physical reason or philosophical reason for this to be dismissed as not sustainable? 

This supports Carlyles stance. Kant in his Kingdom of Ends (which is is essentially the Kingdom of God in rational terms) where each man is an end and views the other as never wholly as means but also an end in himself, supports this view. To go to war with some people is to view them as less than as human as yourself, to treat them as a means rather than as an end as yourself and your own countrymen (or tribe or clan). In the Bhagavad Gita, Arjuna is at the head of a war-party. On confronting the opposing side he sees his own brothers and countrymen. He throws down his bow and weeps and asks advice from the Sage Krishna. Are his own brothers, his own countrymen who he is best aquainted with? With whom he treats as equals? With whom all misunderstandings is resolved successfully? Krishna after a digression on the nature of Brahman advises him to do his duty. The aftermath is devastation. This has been taken as an injunction against war - Ghandhi's nonviolent politics was inspired by it. He successfully used it to ensure against the British Raj to view Indias people as People. Finally Hegel, uses his dialectic to theorise about his World-Mind where 'communication' is perfect. It is the still point and the point towards where the world spirit is evolving to. In this final state no war and no politics can be envisaged for that is an example of a dialectic. It's a utopian view. Nietszche was looking for practical morality. In which case conflict is a neccessary thing, as the ideal utopian point is somewhere beyond our limited horizons. Utopian can have pejorative connotations, I am not using it in that sense here. Its an ideal point to aim towards or we are aimed towards. In the specific example that you have chosen, Maynard Keynes, the economist argued for a much more generous peace in his book The economic consequences of the peace in 1919 after the end of the First World War. That is a more understanding and more honorable peace. 

Existence is a primary notion; however in medieval philosophy (Averroism) it was asked whether essence preceded existence (this then was religously framed, from the rationalist falsafa tradition in Islam); this in a sense is your question. Is the essence of the universe mathematical, and does essence precede existence? 

John Gray, discusses in his book, Black Mass, the similarities between both Capitalism and Communism in terms of Christianity in a Post-Christian Europe - he calls them both Political Religion: 

Its called continuity, theres a long discussion of this notion in its widest sense in Aristotles physics though not in relation to memory - but its obviously applicable to that. It also has a family resemblence to Al-Ghazalis and Humes notion of impressions not being formally causally connected, Al-Ghazalis answer was occasionalism - creation, decreation and re-creation in every moment of time everywhere, which for him was mediated by Allah/God; and whereas Hume didn't answer his own question, Kants response was his 'Copernican revolution' where it was the subjects consciousness that tied everything together - though, I'm not sure if he tackled the question of the continuity of consciousness specifically.