It doesn't follow, if there is only a single universal consciousness of which we are all a part, that you are an eternal part, or even a part that persists for some limited time after death. The single universal consciousness could continue minus your consciousness which has been terminated by death. The question whether when you are alive you are a part of a single universal consciousness is separate from the question whether when you are not alive you remain a part of that consciousness. The consciousness can plainly do without you, as it did before your consciousness began. Why not after your death as well ? 

▻ TEMPORARY SUSPENSION ONLY Schopenhauer believes that aesthetic experience can provide a temporary suspension of pain and desire. Permanent suspension is possible only through morality. ▻ STATEMENT OF SCHOPENHAUER'S VIEW ON AESTHETICS, PAIN AND DESIRE 

From my understanding of propositional logic (1) Some of our concepts (thoughts) resemble what really exists out there and (2) None of our concepts (thoughts) resembles what really exists out there, are contradictory in the sense that they cannot both be true and they cannot both be false. I avoid engagement with Aristotelian logic if it employ a different notion of contradiction. As it stands (2) is just a statement. It is not an idea in your head or anywhere else. When you think it, you then have something different, namely the idea in your head that none of our concepts (thoughts) resembles what really exists out there. That doesn't make the idea identical with the statement. So (2) does not become an idea in your head and it leads to no contradiction. It remains a statement and your idea remains an idea : a statement can only contradict another statement, not an idea. I think btw that 'corresponds to' is the usual idiom in philosophy, not 'resemble'. But that's just a minor point. 

1 X's - the criminal's - exercise of free agency may interfere with or hinder the freedom of other agents. If criminal X's imprisonment secures the exercise of freedom of a thousand others, namely X's potential victims, then some exercise of free agency is going to be lost whatever the state does. If it lets X go, X retains the exercise of their free agency but a thousand others lose or are likely to lose theirs. If X is imprisoned, X's loses the exercise of their free agency but the exercise of free agency by 1000 others is secured. Why should X's free agency take precedence over that of the 1000 ? A critic might reverse the question. In which case I should be obliged to advance considerations of the public interest or the greater good. 2 There is a constellation of values; and free agency is one of them. But it is is not the sole or supreme value, nor if it an inalienable right. Freedom may need to give way to justice; and there would be no free agency without an organised society to secure and protect it. It is reasonable to make respect for others' free agency the social and moral condition for the securing and protection of one's own. Criminal X has not respected the free agency of others, and so can hardly complain if their own free agency is (temporarily) suspended in the nick. 

'"I exist" is not a priori since it requires my experience of I to be known.' If it requires experience in order to be known then, at least on Kant's account, it is not analytic either. Critique of Pure Reason, A7/ B11 : 'It would be absurd to ground an analytic judgment on experience, since I do not need to go beyond my concept at all in order to formulate the judgment, and therefore no testimony from experience for that' (Kant, 'Critique of Pure Reason', tr. P. Guyer, Cambridge : CUP, 2008, 142). For Kant all analytic judgments are a priori and therefore cannot be a posteriori. Now, you may well not feel constrained by Kant's analysis but you use his terms and, so far as I can see, his senses of the terms. Maybe you are right : ''I exist" is not a priori since it requires my experience of I to be known.'' But you need in that case a different analysis of terms to get the result that 'I exist' is analytic a posteriori. Work on this further. You may be on to something. But you do need to work on it further. 

'I am not speaking', said to someone. Practical self-refutation. 'It can be proved that nothing can be proved'. Logical self-refutation (a). If nothing can be proved, then nor can your claim that nothing can be proved. 'There are no truths'. Logical self-refutation (b). You are claiming as a truth that there are no truths. 'It's true but I don't believe it'. Moorean self-refutation (after GE Moore). The situation is possible in which X is true and in which I don't believe that X is true. But it is incoherent for me to say both that X is true and that I don't believe it; belief is the attitude appropriate to truth. 

It is not quite easy to work out Anselm's position. But we can clear the ground a little. In Anselm's Christian terms, the sinner acts unjustly towards God because the sinner does not 'give God what us owed to him' - righteousness, uprightness, obedience. (B. Davies & G.R. Evans, Anselm of Canterbury : The Major Works, Oxford : OUP, 1998, 283 - quote from Cur Deus Homo, §11.). If God decided to condemn the sinner to eternal Hell for the least offence then Anselm's point would appear to be that, since 'God is subject to no law' (Davies & Evans, 284; cf. 285), this would not be unjust : 

Nagel is a subtle writer. I am not sure I have seized his sense but I think he may be saying something like this. X suffers a brain injury that reduces him to the mental condition of a contented infant. At that moment X has ceased to exist as the person he was - intelligent, creative, &c. This is not a moment within his life but defines a limit at which his existence as that person has ended. There is a parallel with death. Death is not a moment within my life but defines a limit at which my existence as a person, or living organism, has ended. X does not experience the misfortune because the misfortune has ended X's existence as the person he was. It is not an occurrence within his life but the point at which it has terminated. If this is so, then indeed it is not only hard but impossible to say when the misfortune befell X : for it never did so. Its very occurrence meant that X no longer existed. Perhaps this parallel - not Nagel's - will help. I can take a train journey. It lasts two hours, say, and any number of events can and do occur in the course of it. But when the train arrives, this is not an event within the journey. It is not a part of the journey but is 'outside' the journey, logically distinct from it, as marking the fact that the journey is over. It no longer exists, if I can put it like that. We can date and time the arrival - it occurred at 06.30 hours - but it is no part of the journey. Likewise the misfortune is no part of X's life; its occurrence means that his life has ended, just as the arrival means that the journey has ended - the arrival is no part of it. REFERENCE James Van Evra, 'On Death as a Limit', Analysis, Vol. 31, No. 5 (Apr., 1971), pp. 170-176. [The line of argument here is similar to the one I've used above.]