As long as you're not monitoring responses and acting upon them in some way (e.g. somehow penalizing people who didn't participate), I don't see any harm in this. You should be careful to phrase it as completely optional and not a requirement of anyone's job. 

What would they do if you leave now? From what you're saying, it sounds as if you fill a key role in your group - you're the person that can apply a BS filter to whatever the vendor is saying. Your managers look to you to do this because they don't have the knowledge to do it themselves. They can either use you fully, and take advantage of your skills - maybe saving some money in the bargain - or they can hold you back, in which case you're likely to eventually get frustrated and go somewhere else, which could end up costing them even more money. It sounds like it's time for a frank talk with your manager about this. Make your case for what you can do, and share your frustrations with not being allowed to do it. If you don't like what you hear, it's probably time to think about looking for other opportunities. 

It's important to choose a career path that appeals to you. If you enjoy development more than server administration, for example, focus on that. You will be happier and more effective doing something that you are truly interested in. Remember that your career path is a long-term thing, not a short-term one, especially in a field such as IT where continual skills improvement is not only desirable but critical. Don't sell yourself short. You are learning skills that you can build upon - there's no need to minimize that! Of course you're not an expert - how could you be with only a few years of experience? As a hiring manager, I would be more worried if you thought you knew everything at age 23; a bit of self-awareness regarding just how much you have to learn is a positive, and hiring managers will see it that way if you're careful to bring it up in a positive way, e.g. by stressing that you are not very experienced yet but eager to learn. Your career decisions are ultimately your own. You need to understand your own motivations, skills and potential, and think about where you want to be in the long-term. Don't let someone else manage your career for you - manage it yourself, and let any regrets come from your own actions or inactions rather than the manipulation of others. 

My company participates in a number of job fairs during the year, and I often draw the short straw and have to review the big stack of resumes that come back from these. Until recently I would have answered 'just use copy paper, nobody in the technical world cares'. And that's probably true most of the time. I was recently given a resume stack from a job fair, and I notice right in the middle of the stack there was a resume printed on thick, ultra-white paper. It really stood out, so I pulled that one out first. It was the resume of a graphics designer. She had some colorful, fun, and interesting graphics and the whole presentation was just beautiful. I took that resume straight to our UX guy, who now uses this person as a contract artist. In this case anyway, the paper she used got my attention. Would it have mattered as much if she was applying to be a Java programer? Probably not, but it wouldn't have hurt her either. If I ever go looking for a gig at a job fair I'm going to use a better-than-copier-grade paper for my resumes. I'm not capable of colorful or fun graphics, so I won't have that. Once you are in the door for a physical interview it's less important, but couldn't hurt to use nice paper. 

Assuming this wasn't just banter, I think Chad is communicating to 'the boss' that he won't tolerate open disrespect just because 'the boss' got there before he did. Possibly Chad has in demand skills and knows he can find a job where he's not publicly disrespected in front of his peers. Or maybe he figures no job is worth putting up with a 'boss' who is clearly an idiot. 

It sounds as if you're trying to provide value for your employer by streamlining a business process that is overly manual and repetitive. This is a Good Thing, regardless of any impact on staff. In today's business environment it's important to stay competitive, and one way to ensure competitiveness is to streamline processes and remove unnecessary work wherever possible. This frees up people to do more valuable work and can, in some cases, result in cost savings for the business. It may be accomplished by reducing staff load, but that's not your decision and you shouldn't be overly burdened by it. Remember that you're paid by your employer, not by your co-workers. It's admirable that you're concerned about your colleague's welfare, but your ultimate responsibility is to do the right thing for the business. 

Review your work over the past year and develop a list of your major accomplishments. It may be too late to use this information to influence your review, but you should be prepared to speak in terms of specific examples when discussing any particular aspects of your performance. Think about any questions you want to ask, or comments that you want to make, and make notes if necessary. These may be questions or requests for information about your own career development, observations about improvements that could be made to your working environment or your processes, or anything else that you think is relevant. Think about potential review points to put yourself in the right frame of mind. You probably already have a good idea of some of the things that will be addressed in your review. If you expect it to be mostly positive, be prepared to be gracious; if you expect some negative points to be raised, think about how you want to address them. In either case, you will be more self-assured and provide better feedback if you think about the possibilities in advance. 

I screen a lot of resumes, and am in the 'two pages or less please' camp. I do appreciate links to more information at the bottom of your resume. Linked In is a good place to include the information that would be contained in a full CV. If you have a blog or other web presence related to the job you're interested in, I'm interested, by all means include those links. On a side note, I have a pet peeve about 'References available upon request'. My reaction is always 'Duh! - Thanks for clearing that up, Captain Obvious'. References are pretty much a given in every job I've ever applied for, and I've never noticed any reluctance on anyone's part to request or provide references. Why waste precious bits typing that? Edited to add: If you are handing in a paper resume at a job fair, provide a link to an electronic copy of that resume! Trust me, this is VERY helpful to your screener! 

We've had some good luck here (Austin, Texas, USA) by going to college job fairs where we can meet the candidates directly and conduct an initial screening with the interesting ones. We also hire a lot of interns, some of whom wind up as full timers and all of whom have friends that they can introduce us to. 

Before I was a software developer I worked in aviation. 5s type rules are golden for any aviation production or maintenance organization. Keeping every tool and part in exactly the right place is not just for looks, it's a manner of life and death. I almost lost a friend when a wrench left in an airplane caused a crash on takeoff. That's why every tool must be controlled and accounted for at all times. Aircraft maintenance is typically done in shifts. It is a matter of life and death that each incoming shift has no doubt as to the state of the work left by the prior shift. If shortcuts are taken between shifts then it is very possible that people could die. Creativity is needed in the design process, but not in maintenance or line production. The one thing you don't want in production and maintenance shops is creativity. Everything must standardized, carefully designed procedures must be followed be, rules must be strictly enforced. Authority must be respected. Or people die. Software development isn't like that. Rules that are very appropriate in manufacturing or maintenance organizations are not appropriate in a software development organizations in which individual creativity, out-of-the-box thinking, and experimentation are keys to success. Nobody dies if my monitor and desktop are different than that of another developer. If the other dev and I are forced to use some kind of authority dictated 'standard' then both of us lose productivity. Attempts to enforce the factory floor regime suggested by this question will drive away all the best software developers and result in only mediocre software products. This 5S system is a recipe for disaster if imposed on a software development team. 

This would be a yellow flag for me. Client A hasn't even hired you yet, and they are already looking at this as a one-sided deal. They are looking out for their own interests and explicitly disregarding your own. Think about what this implies about your work life at Client A after you have actually taken the job. I would thank Client A for their interest, express your own mutual interest, and tell them that you intend to honor your commitment by attending the second interview before making a decision. This does several things for you: 1) It increases your apparent value to the first company 2) It shows that you are a person with integrity who honors his commitments 3) It lets them know that you are not a pushover, and that they are entering into a two-sided relationship with you, not a one-sided one Of course, there is a risk that they will withdraw their offer, but if your future prospects for employment are otherwise good I would advise taking the risk. 

This is a tough one. If this had happened to me, I think I would be honest and forthcoming about what happened. I would say exactly what you have said in the first three paragraphs and in the first sentence of the fourth. Your performance was good; the company decided to terminate your employment without warning and with no explanation; and it's a complete mystery to you why this occurred. What I would not do is speculate on why. There's nothing to be gained by trying to reason out what happened in an interview situation. Just stress the good work that you did there, the experience that you gained, and how it would be relevant to the new position. 

Everything except the replacment bus ticket, airline club daypass and room service are appropriate for most American corporations. For sure they will be disapproved if your are applying to work for a U.S. government contractor. Unless you are applying for a senior position you very well may get push back on those items even in a pure private sector organization. You really have three options: 1) Claim these expenses, and shrug your shoulders if they don't reimburse you. In the past this would be my choice, but since participating in this forum I've been astounded at the many trivial and unimportant things that seem to worry some interviewers and hiring decision makers (tie color, shoes, email addresses, etc). 2) Don't claim them out of an abundance of caution. In case you have a 'tie color is critical' hiring authority why risk claiming a questionable expense? 3) Contact the admin or HR person who coordinated your interview and ask the question before you file your expense report. This is commonly done and shouldn't raise any eyebrows. Unless you are applying at a place that considers tie color etc as important. 

I've got a stack of resumes in front of me right now. Here's a fellow with an 'additional' section that list "Team Captain, Podunk Marathon" and "Secretary, Irish Music Society". Here's another guy with a 'Community Support and Interests" section. He does Yoga and rides a bike 50+ miles a week. He's a Deacon in his church. Here's a candidate with an 'Additional' section that lists 'Team Captain, Podunk United Rugby Club'. I see 'additional' sections all the time, and I like them. It gives me a little more of a picture of the whole person. As a resume reviewer it's all well and good to screen resumes looking for that candidate who has 15 years of Ruby on Rails and five years of iOS 5 experience. But it's still interesting to see just a glimpse of who the person really is. Just a bit of 'additional' gives your resume a hook. 'Let's see, I remember, there was an F# guy who was President of his chess club". In your case, your religious activities are a very important part of who you are. You don't want to be hired at a place who would find this part of you distracting (and yes, it's not legal in most places for the employer to consider your religion, and we hope everyone follows this principle.) So add your title and part time position as 'Community Service' at the bottom of your resume. Don't make a big deal about it, but it will be best for both you and your potential employers for this activity to be disclosed. 

There are jobs out there with a 4-day work week. I had a friend in a Product Manager role at a previous company who worked four 10-hour days per week. There are even jobs out there with a 3-day work week. Early in my career, I worked at a large insurance company as a server room manager, and my shift was three 12-hour days, 2:00 PM to 2:00 AM. That's not to say that these jobs are easy to find. They do exist, but as others have mentioned, they're uncommon. If a 4-day work week is the most important thing to you, you may need to cast a broader net, e.g. look regionally or nationally instead of in your city. 

"Phone Screen" is HR-speak for a brief telephone interview. Phone screens are intended to get a brief introduction to a candidate's skills and experience prior to bringing him/her onsite for a more thorough interview. In essence, the interviewer is "screening out" any candidates that aren't a good fit before devoting time and resources to interviewing them in person. 

I don't see what it could hurt. A peer award is nothing to take lightly - it shows that you are a team player who is well respected by others in the company. Listing it on LinkedIn may give you the opportunity to showcase your collaboration skills in an interview if the reviewers scan through your profile and notice it. If you decide to post it, make sure to describe it is you did here - a result of peer voting. If you can call out the exact reason for the award, so much the better. 

He is possibility violating the federal minimum wage laws, the Federal Department of Labor can help you determine if this is the case. 

The answer to (1) is easy. Except in the unlikely event that you have an employment contract that binds you to your current employer, and likewise binds him to you, then it's not unethical for you to look for another position, just as it's not unethical for him to look for another person to replace you. This is called 'at will' employment. The answer to (2) is very difficult unless there is a strong positive relationship between you, your current company, and the other company. It is the case that in the US there have been costly law suits over 'stolen' employees (Informix v. Oracle for example). Short of a lawsuit, it is also possible that the first thing the other company's manager might do is call his counterpart at your current company and say 'Anonymous1 is asking about a job here, is it ok with you if we pursue this with him?'. In practical terms if the other company looks to you like a great fit for you, and you have a positive relationship with the management of the new company, then you might just bring up the subject in a diplomatic way, perhaps over lunch or in some other neutral settings. It'll be a gamble, but sometimes gambles pay off. 

In the United States we have two basic systems for Unionized workers. Twenty three states have 'right to work' laws which in general prohibit collective bargaining agreements that force all employees to join the union and outlaw forced collection of union dues from non-members. The other states all allow some form of compulsory union membership contracts. In general the states with forced union membership have slightly higher average wages, but they also have significantly higher unemployment. If you are considering forming a Union in a right to work state you'll have a steeper hill to climb. Keep in mind that union membership has been steadily declining in the U.S. private sector, dropping from 20% in 1983 to 12% in 2010. If you are interested in forming a union then the first step is to talk to an existing union, such as the AFL-CIO, Teamsters, or Service Employees International Union. They will be glad to help you take the first steps if you decide to try and unionize your employer. While union membership by technical professionals is unusual in the U.S., it's not unheard of. Boeing engineers in Washington state unionized a few years ago.