Others have commented this and it is the likely cause. With friction shifters the position of the lever is held by the screw that holds the lever in. When pressure is exerted on the drivetrain the chain tries to drop down the cassette, only being prevented from doing so by the rear deraileur which in turn is held by the cable tension of its shifter. If the shifter screw has loosened a bit the force from the chain will overcome the deraileur, pulling on the shifter cable, and shift down by itself. It's simply a case of tightening the shifter screw to a degree that it's still comfortable to shift but won't be pulled out of position. It should feel pretty stiff when you shift but not so much that have to put much effort in. On my old peugeot racer I found myself tightening the screws every month or so. 

For fear of repeating what others have said - I had this exact issue recently with a 2003 road bike I recently purchased which has 2x9 Ultegra. I was initially fearful having read around but I managed to completely fix the problem and my shifters now work flawlessly. First, assuming the right shifter is the problem, loosen your front brake (the thing you flick open on the calliper to allow the wheel to come off). Then squeeze the brake lever to open up the mechanism. There should be a hole on the right of the mechanism where you would insert the inner gear cable if you were installing a new one. Squirt a good amount of WD-40 or similar solvent in this hole. This could get a bit messy and drippy but don't worry. Then, with the rear wheel raised, pedal the bike and shift all the way through the gears several times, holding the brake lever as you do to enable upshifting to smaller cogs. If it doesn't get any better, repeat the above process several times. Once (if) you have improved the shifter allow the solvent to dry away by leaving it for a bit. Then finish by squirting some decent bike lube (chain lube is fine) in the same hole on the shifter. I used Finish Line dry lube, and repeat the process of shifter though the gears. You don't need to disassemble anything or remove from the bike. Re-degrease and relube periodically to maintain smooth working. If this method fails it is probably an indication that the shifter mechanism itself is worn or bent in which case I believe you need to replace it as unfortunately Shimano shifter are non-serviceable. 

I have a road bike from Circa 2003 and it currently boasts an ITM Millenium stem. The stem is a bit long for my liking at around 130mm and I was thinking of replacing it with a shorter one for a slightly more upright riding position. I have a feeling my bars however are of clamping diameter 25.4 mm, although they may be 26mm as it is an Italian bike (ITM bars too). Shopping around I notice that pretty much all new stems are of the oversize 31.8 mm clamping diameter so I assume they won't fit my bars. How would I get around this problem? I heard one could get shims to thicken the bars at the clamping point but sourcing them seems to be tricky. 

Just to add to the other answers, it is my experience that you can't get as secure a fit with a QR skewer as with a nutted axle. If your bike has track forks (like below), rather than forward facing horizontal dropouts, you can probably get away with this, especially by adding a chain tug to keep the wheel from sliding forward in the rear fork end. 

I have recently started hitting my local velodrome in Herne Hill and it's great fun. I notice the majority of experienced riders use road pedals such as Look or SPD-SL. The rental bikes just have toe-clips and straps but I, among others, bring along my own pedals which are SPD which work fine. I noticed when watching the Olympics and other pro velodrome events that the riders appear to have straps on their pedals. What system are they using? Does it combine a road pedal with a strap for extra stiffness or is it a secret custom-made system? 

There are more factors involved. Gearing being a major one - it is much easier to skid on a 38x18 compared to a 50x14 which is more like a track ratio. Other major factors include road surface, rider strength, dry/wet, tyre width, tread pattern, rubber compound and inflation. Indeed, as others have mentioned additional weight might actually make it easier to skid given increased momentum and pedal resistance provided they shift their weight appropriately. I would say there is no practical upper limit for rider weight but gearing and tyre characteristics (a really fat slick tyre with a big contact patch on dry tarmac) could prevent it. Nevertheless, skidding the rear wheel is an ineffective way to slow or stop your bike even if it is good fun. 

I have a vintage peugeot and one characteristic of older steel frames like them is horizontal dropouts. Although they have their advantages it also means you must be careful to align the rear wheel properly when putting it back on the bike. If you look carefully from above the wheel should be exactly central between the chainstays and the seatstays. Although hard to see, in your 2nd photo it looks as though it's off to the left a bit. Just loosen the QR and carefully adjust the axle's position in each dropout until you have the wheel central. This is most likely the cause of your problem. 

Although this has been answered I thought I'd chuck another suggestion in there. As Mac said there is a difference between chainrings meant for deraileurs and those meant for single-speeds. That's not to say you can't use the former without a deraileur, but as it is easier to derail the chain you should check your chainline is well set up. If your front ring is aligned too much to either side of your rear cassette, when you shift to a gear on the opposite side (e.g. the highest or lowest gear depending on the misalignment) it could cause the chain to jump off the front ring. This is because the chain is being pulled to one side. Ideally your front ring should be more-or-less in line with the middle cog on your rear cassette. You say the problem usually happens when you stop at intersections. This could be because you are shifting into a low gear to ready yourself for setting off again and it's this situation that causes the most lateral force on the chain. Combined with high force on the crank from accelerating and possible wear on the front ring increases the chances of derailment. 

I have an 80's Peugeot steel-framed racer that I want to convert to singlespeed/fixed. It has a standard square-taper BB with a double chainring chainset. I can see the chainrings are removable from the spider and was thinking I could just remove them and replace with a singlespeed ring to save having to buy a whole new crankset. Will this work or will I have problems with chainline? I have yet to buy a new rear wheel with singlespeed hub so it's quite hard to check if chainline will work. I presume it is possible to bolt the chainring to either side of the spider giving me a choice of two positions. Beyond this I'm not sure how I would adjust chainline if it's out. Any general help/tips regarding conversion appreciated. The bike has horizontal dropouts (not a track rear fork) so tensioning shouldn't be an issue. Here's a (not very good) picture: 

I am converting my 80s steel peugeot to a fixed gear. I have purchased most of the parts an had a wheel built onto a SS hub. Now, SS hubs are narrower than road hubs - 120mm vs 130mm (although I think my bike is 126mm as it was a 6-speed). The axle on my new hub is plenty long enough to span the rear fork but the hub itself is too narrow. I've been to a local chain bike shop to see if they stock dedicated spacers but they can't help. I essentially need 2 3mm spacers to bridge fill the extra width. What's the best way to sort this? I can try a LBS but would a 3mm nut that screws onto the axle suffice? If I can find such a thing... 

If however your bike is a fixie conversion with an old-school horizontal dropout (like below) I'd highly advise against using a QR. The forces exerted when pedalling tend to pull the rear wheel forward relative to the rest of the bike. The axle nut is the only thing resisting this force. If this connection isn't tight enough your rear wheel could fall out of the dropouts when in motion. With a fixed gear drivetrain this is very dangerous for obvious reasons. You can't use a chain tug to prevent this as they old work for backward-facing track forks. 

There are a few questions floating around regarding sticky STI shifters and the standard procedure seems to be to flush with a load of WD-40 and relube with aerosol grease or similar. My set is Ultegra 6500 series. Having tried this with with unsatisfactory results I think I need to take more drastic action. It is clear there is still significant grime and gummed-up grease in the mechanism (excerbated no doubt by long-term lack of name plate). I figured the best method would be to remove the shifter from the bike and give it a good submersion in degreaser. My idea was to leave the body on the bars and just remove the lever, which incorporates the mechanism by removing the pivot pin and brake/gear cables. The tech docs show this process but I'm slightly scared of tiny pieces flying everywhere and being unable to reassemble. It also requires a "return spring installation tool" which I do not possess. Has anyone had experience with this? How tricky is it for a reasonably technically inclined person? Would I be better off just removing the bar tape and taking off the whole unit? 

They look like standard Shimano-type cartridge brakes. No need for new blocks, just get a set of pads. I recently got these and they are really good - far better than the standard shimano ones: $URL$ Go for the salmon if you have non-carbon rims. EDIT: I seems your brakes do not in fact have cartridges but the brake pad is a single piece that connects directly to the caliper arm. The dura-style cartridges (like the ones you linked to) will fit on your calipers and is a worthwhile upgrade. You will be able to more cheaply and easily replace pads and have a wider choice. 

I have acquired a Focus Izalco Max Disc frame and forks and am having trouble finding a headset for it. The steerer bung in the fork reads 28.6mm and it looks to have a slight taper. I have read online that it's a 1 1/8 -> 1 1/4 inch but the headset I have purchased doesn't fit (FSA no53). The headtube of the frame measures ~42.5mm diameter at the top and ~47mm diameter at the bottom. I tried the Cane Creek headset finder but it doesn't have my frame model in its database and can't identify any headset models that fit the dimensions I enter. I have a feeling an FSA Orbit C-33 might be a fit but I can't find any material online to back this up aside from the fact it's one of the few tapered headsets with a 1-1/4" lower bearing. Any ideas?