WWII technology did not have the ability to reach lunar distances, so they could not throw slugs or fire missles at each other at that time. But they could see them (telescopes) and could (accounting for minor delay) talk to them (radio). I'm going to ignore the fact that radio isn't quite that simple. Radio works by modulating electromagnetic frequencies. You need to understand the modulation to "decode" the signal. I'm going to jump to the conclusion that no matter how desparate our two races at the outset, they figured that out and can communicate. Therefore, how would technology and society change from this point? Music and news Without question the most commonly shared items would be music and news. The two species would initially be bonded by sharing their cultures. Technology would spread slowly as you can't simply send a digital signal via analog broadcast. It's possible, but it would be very slow and painful. Look at how long it took to get the name of the artist and song name to show up on our radios? RDS only became common in the early 90s, four decades after WWII. Hearing about "the other side" Eventually the two worlds would begin to realize that some portion of the news was about a side of the world they couldn't see. They'd start to wonder about what was really going on back there since they couldn't see it for themselves. Every society has its paranoid thinkers, and those thinkers would begin to make noise about what the other guys are doing in the dark (so to speak). This would lead to fear. 

Data that comes from all over and has the potential to simultaneously affect the same data element. A ruthless example is a stock exchange. A more common example would be a retail shop. Data that really can only come from one source. An example of this is an individual's medical data. A person can only be in one place at one time, so there's no risk to their medical data running into concurrency problems when it's absorbed into, e.g., the "central database." 

When I say the surface of the sphere does not contribute to climate effects, I mean that I want to deal with water, soil, elevation, etc., in a later question. Please assume this question is about the atmosphere and only the atmosphere. It's a gas dynamics question around a shape that provides gravity for the sake of the atmosphere and nothing else. Yes, this question will lead to a good understanding of how climate works on a tidally-locked planet. But that's an issue for later. Yes, assuming no orbit, no rotation, no surface effects is absurd. By the same token, all freshman physics classes are absurd becasue they all start with spherical horses. I did that on purpose, folks. It's impractical to hand a first-year physics student a graduate-level textbook in an effort to just jump to the solution. (If you don't believe this, it's been a while since you were a freshman....) 

An absolutely fascinating article was written by NASA about the magnitude 9 Sumatra Earthquake. That earthquake was so powerful that it... 

Your problem, of course, is that there is no scientific method for definitively determining who is, and who is not, of any gender-preference/identity And without it we're guessing something awful. It's easy to determine who is biologically male or female, you look at the plumbing.1 But without a definitive scientific test what we have to work with is only what people claim to be — and people are absolutely notorious for claiming to be anything and everything as it suits them. Who's to say if anyone claiming to be LGBT really is, or have allowed themselves to be behaviorally swayed that way, or simply chosen to be that way to bask in political popularity? So, what statistics do we have to work with? 

One possibility is the natural tendency for people to bind together for mutual protection leading to positive solutions. Communication between emerging communities — if possible — would quikly lead to societies. This idea was explored in the movie The Postman, where it depicts society returning to normal after one or two generations. (Note that this ending isn't at all what I remember from the book the movie was based on, which was much less optimistic.) Socially, an apocalyptic world might return to order very quickly, at least very quickly after the imbalance of who-has-all-the-bullets (etc.) is exhausted and so long as adequate food and water supplies exist. Socially, so long as it is possible for a sociopath to maintain power, that imbalance will remain. Once the imbalance is gone, people (being naturally OK to begin with) will quickly form communities for trade and security. After all, IMHO, it won't be the "average person" who brings about violence. That person would lock the door and hope everything would go away so they could get on with their lives. The nature of the apocalypse, however, will have an important effect. A nuclear war will leave large tracts of land uninhabitable and would likely make passages between communities difficult to find and traverse. This would slow the restoration of society. Compare this with a biological agent that, I would expect, would die out fairly quickly and we're back on track to a quick recovery. Zombies, however... there's no predicting the dang zombies. Not really being "alive" in the classical sense means there's no telling when those bounders will go away. They'd certainly give us all a common purpose, but unless they were far-and-few-between, they'd slow reintegration something awful. 

Alien and fantasy creatures can be designed in an infinite number of ways. But are there physiological traits that would be common among all tool-developing (technology-building) species? As an example, I suspect all such species must have some means of manipulating small things. Whether it be fingers and an opposable thumb or well coordinated tentacles or a remarkably manipulatable pair of jaw pincers. Physiologically, the species needs the ability to manipulate things implying fine motor control and gripping power. I'm not as interested in how the traits are manifest as I am what the basic traits are. Is there a short list of such traits that can guide creature builders? 

Yes, there is always the possibility of serendipity. Wildbrand wasn't actually looking for an explosive, so in frustration he could have thrown a batch of TNT into a furnace for incineration, resulting in the instantaneous discovery of its explosive properties. After that it wouldn't take long to figure out how to detonate it predictably. Assuming he lived through the moment, that would have eliminated Häussermann from the picture completely and saved you 30 years of development. Note that by 1863 the U.S. Civil War was already turning against the Confederate States and TNT would not change history substantially (which is another way of saying it wouldn't have changed it at all). If the Civil War is the focus of your story, then you need both the invention of TNT and the discovery of its explosive properties to happen no later than 1861. Finally, while I can't speak to what, if any, improvements were made to TNT between 1863 and 1902 when the German military started using it in their ordinance, I can say that it wouldn't have mattered. TNT wasn't used in the Civil War, as you suggest, because it's original state was too impure to be a decent explosive. It wasn't used because it's so stable no one understood that it was an explosive. Even in the state of its original discovery, it might have changed the war substantially... especially if the Confederates got hold of it first and could figure out how to detonate it using a cannon ball. 

The odds of this question being closed as "primarily opinion-based" are unbelievably high. And the only reason I might get away with this is that I can point to Bram Stoker's Dracula and literary analyses to provide some insight. Vampire stories preceded Bram Stoker's novel by nearly 200 years and show no sign of running out of steam. During those early years the concept of a "vampire" was investigated, sensationalized, abused, and refined. The fundamental concept of a vampire was more than a little solidified by Bram Stoker because (a) he was a whomping good writer and (b) he had the advantage of "modern" printing and distribution (in 1897) which meant a lot of people came to think of vampires the way he did. In Bram Stoker's novel, a vampire heals faster than normal people and rejuvenates (grows younger) from drinking blood. If I want to stretch a long, long way, I could suggest that whatever it is that makes a vampire the "living undead" (be it magic, a virus, a curse, or nanites) that "something" is able to extract from living blood what is needed to allow what would otherwise be dead and inoperative cells to do the voodoo that they do to heal. However, because vampires are utterly fictional, people can and have defined them to be whatever they wished them to be for the sake of their story. Almost inevitably, the creature is sensual (because sex sells), the creature is insanely powerful (be it strength, skills, or abilities... like turning into a black chicken bat), and the creature has a ridiculous weakness like garlic. I mean, really, what's not to like about garlic? By the way, that last link will give you amazing insight into the wide variation of vampiric strengths and weaknesses over the centuries. It's very thorough, including even the weakness of the Count Chocula breakfast cereal (the writers have an excellent sense of humor!). I recommend taking a peek! But, to answer your question: focusing only on Bram Stoker's Dracula: Yes, they will heal. Possibly they will bleed, depending on when they enjoyed their last meal.