Medical privacy can be a knotty issue. As long as it doesn't impact work, you can and likely should keep it private. If you need an accommodation (such as the ability to go chemotherapy or dialysis on a particular schedule or special equipment), then you must tell your employer in order to get the accommodation. In general, they do not need to know the details but have something in writing from the doctor explaining the necessary accommodation. In practice, I have found it is easier for everybody if you are up front about the illness unless it is something that might cause people to shun you like AIDS. That still doesn't mean you have to disclose all the details. But knowing you have arthritis or cancer of depression might make them think about things they ask you to do without having to make a formal accommodation every time. Illnesses viewed as more serious tend to get more sympathy and people go out of their way to make sure you can continue to work as long as possible. However, I have also twice seen people who got fired for having a serious illness - once when she was no longer able to work at all and had run out of disability and once where the managers deliberately assigned work to her that they knew she could not do and then fired her for performance reasons. The first was unfortunate but at least understandable, they needed to hire a replacement and it was clear she was not going to be able to go back to work (she died a couple of months later). The second was inexcusable. I have seen far more people successfully get accommodations though, but it is a risk to disclose. It is just that the risk of not disclosing is often far greater than the risk of disclosing. Many people make the disclosure directly to HR and their boss is only told that there is an accommodation being made. Whoever you tell about the illness is generally obligated not to pass around your personal medical history to people who do not need to know without your written consent. However, if you know you boss is a gossip, it might be best to deal directly with HR. The grey area is an illness that might at some point affect work, but currently does not. Most people prefer to keep this private, but be aware that you are likely to have more trouble for not disclosing if it causes a work problem and they didn't know about it in advance. It is harder to get people to retroactively accommodate after something serious has happened and you could get fired in many places before you could bring up that you need an accommodation. It might be harder to get time off for necessary medical treatments if you don't tell them you are going to the doctor. So it is a judgement call. If you feel like things are getting worse, it might be worth it to bring up the issue proactively. And of course some things are noticeable whether you disclose or not. It is hard not to notice that someone is deaf for instance. If people are going to know anyway, disclosing is generally to your advantage. As far as being ashamed, there is no reason for shame in having an illness. Pretty much every person will get an illness at some point in their life unless they die young from a non-illness related death. 

This has the advantage in that the person is fully informed and doesn't delay you much. Further if you have someone who consistently ignores you, it gives you political ammunition if you do something other than what they wanted, because you told them that no replying meant they agreed. It might even make the person start to actually read your emails when they get burned becasue you did something they didn't agree with and they couldn't be bothered to tell you so. 

Back in the olden days (more years ago than I care to consider), I was a management analyst doing efficiency studies for a large government agency. Every two or three weeks we went to another location and had to establish ourselves with a group of people we had never met before. I did this for 9 years. This is very similar to your situation. First, you can get no cooperation at all without management cooperation. So first you need to go to the manager of the area you are looking at and give him a presentation about your group and what you hope to accomplish for him. Focus the presentation on what is in it for him. If you have senior management buy-in (and I presume you do or they wouldn't have created the group), make sure to mention who is supporting the effort. Get the manager's OK to talk directly to the employees in the areas you are interested in. Tell them that this is their chance to fix the stuff that has been annoying them for years. Get them to tell you where they see the problem areas. Get them to point you to where to find what you need. The key to being accepted by the employees is to listen to them and their ideas. Do not make suggestions to them or try to dictate to them. They work with this stuff every day, they know where the problems are, they just have trouble getting anyone to do anything about them. If you act like you are the only experts - here to tell them how to do their jobs, they will fight you tooth and nail. The single most critical thing you can do to gain trust is to listen to people and take what they have to say seriously. Never under any circumstance only talk to managers. Managers do not know the process, but they think they do. The people who actually do the work know alot of details about the processes that the managers won't think to tell you. Some of those details are critical. Now the really hard part of gaining the trust is that they will be looking to see if what you are doing means they will lose their jobs. It's especially tough if that is exactly what it means. So you need to start having a track record for actually improving things not making them worse before many of the employees will open up to you about the real problems. So start with some low-hanging fruit and get some accomplishments under the team belt. Make sure these things are things that fix long-standing issues and especially are things that do not involve reducing personnel (even if you later intend to do so). 

In the US in many states you can fire people without stating a reason and that is often what companies do because there is less possibility that the person can complain legally of an unfair firing if a reason is not given. Nor should a company ever tell the other employees why someone is fired. That is confidential and frankly none of their business. Their intelligence is likely irrelevant to why they were fired, don't dwell on that. You know your company fires easily and you want to stay there. What are the strategies? First you need to make sure your performance is great. No major mistakes and as few minor ones as possible. Double check everything. Next you need to make sure your boss is aware that your performance is great. You need to play the office politics game at a place like this and you need to play it well. You need to have allies in higher bosses and other departments so that people want to make sure you stay. You really need to read some books on this. Additionally, you should always be ready to leave and start making contacts in the local community for your profession. If you do get fired, you want to maximize your chances of getting another job right away by making friends in other places and it helps to contribute to local user groups or events where you will work with others of your profession on a volunteer basis. And stay in touch if you can with some of the folks who were fired. The places where they work now obviously were willing to overlook the firing. 

Even if you choose to look for other jobs, you should seriously try to meet the conditions of the PIP. You may learn things that will help you in your next job. You may find that you can be successful at this place before you find another job. There is no down side to trying to fix your problems. People who are unsuccessful at meeting expectations tend to have that problem in more than one job in part because they don't know how to identify what is expected or because they don't take their boss's expectations seriously. You need to learn how to understand what the boss expects and give it to him before you go on to another job. Specific expectations will be different at different jobs, but knowing how to deal with your boss's expectations is something you need in every job. The PIP should be a wake up call that something is seriously wrong with what you are doing. Fix it before going on to another job. 

An outside interview is highly unlikely to give feedback, an internal one might be more willing if you go to him or her with the right attitude. You don't want the person to have the impression that you are asking so you can fight the selection. When I have been successful with this in the past, I said something to the effect of "I realized from the interview that I'm not ready yet for that promotion. Could you give me some guidance on what I need to do to be ready for the next opportunity." Since you aren't going to get feedback from the interviewer most of the time, you have to learn the skill of self-assessing your own performance. First don't beat yourself up too badly, I have often hired one person when 4 or 5 would have been great fits for the job, but I only had one position. If your honest self assessment was that you did well, then this may have been the case. Sometimes it comes down to how you think the personalities will fit together and what might be wrong one for one postion might just be perfect for the next. So to self-assess yourself, first go through a mental checklist: 

Ignore the typos. You didn't get the job, so they aren't trying to trap you. Remember it is the QA technician who has to have the excellent grammar and spelling skills, not the HR person who composed the letter. 

It seems to me that they gave you the wage you asked for because they wanted to hire you. That is how pretty much all wage negotiations are expected to work except in regulated environments like government service with standard pay scales. Why would you feel bad that you got more? Pay is never fair because it is based on negotiating skills as well as both explicit (I got told once that all the women in the office got half the raise all the men got because "women don't need the money, they have men to take care of them." Oddly I left shortly after that.) and implicit prejudices. Feel grateful that it went in your favor for once. If they didn't think you were worth it, they would not have offered it. I have never known any of the thousands of people I have worked with through the years who seemed the least bit upset that they earned more than someone else. It is how the world works. I suspect that part of what upsets you isn't so much the money but that they were stupid enough to tell you that you got that wage for being female. It negates your professional skill and is frankly insulting. Telling someone that is the reason why they hired you and paid you more is upsetting especially when you are (based on what you said) more qualified than the others at your level. Frankly, none of your coworkers has a need to know about your salary. Don't talk about it ever at work in any event. Don't discuss that you found out they hired you for diversity either, then they will automatically assume you are unqualified. I have seen that happen too often to assume otherwise. 

First thing is to take care of any known expenses (such as prescription refills) before the old coverage expires if you might need them over the two days. Most of us, I suspect, just hope to not get get sick those two days. Some employers pay premiums at the beginning of the month and you may be covered until the end of the month which would cover those days. Check with your current HR. There is also COBRA coverage which your HR should explain to you . It is meant for covering gaps but I believe you would have to pay a whole month's premium. If you have a serious illness or are pregnant where you know you have a strong possibility of ending up in the hospital over the weekend, it is probably worth it to get this coverage if your old insurance doesn't go to the end of the month. You have 60 days to get Cobra, so check with your HR, it is possible you could sign up on MOnday if you had a problem over the weekend and have continuous coverage. You could also consider taking your spouse's coverage now and then changing it to your own when open season comes up in a couple of months. Some places charge extra for spouses who could get their own insurance. 

Consider asking your boss if you can be part of the hiring panel when they get another developer. Then you have a say in the final decision. I would also have a talk with my boss about how this person seems to be looking to get a developer job at your place of work and why that idea makes you uncomfortable. Any hiring panel I have ever been on has taken into consideration how well the person would fit with existing personnel (it is the most important criteria after determining if the person can do the job at all) and if they know the person and don't give a high recommendation to hire, generally we pass. 

OK, you need to talk to your manager as soon as you can prepared. You should have talked to him weeks ago when it first became clear that you were not going to get the support he had promised you would get. Putting off talking to a manager about a problem that has come up at work is generally one the worst mistakes you can make. What was a minor problem at first becomes a major problem when it is put off. If at all possible you need to bring documentation of how you have tried to ask for help and been pushed off. Detail what you have done to try to get the skills you lack. If you don't have this sort of thing, it is going to look as if you never asked and then it becomes much more your fault. You need to go with a plan for what training you need to be productive on this project or ask to be moved to one more suited to your skills. It might be useful to talk to the others on the project and find out what they think you need to get more productive. Sometimes you are not doing as badly as you think. Someone trying to get better is given more slack than someone who just waits for others to act.