If your main worry is being seen by cars, then a superbright light isn't really the way forward. Besides being dazzling/blinding, a front light does very little for visibility from the sides and from behind, from which many (most?) collisions occur. A front light helps your visibility mainly when a car pulls out of or turns into a side road across your path while you approach. In my experience, in most of these cases the problem isn't that the driver didn't see me, but that they had difficulties judging my speed. Also, these are cases where I can mitigate some of the risk by reading the situation, observing the car (are they starting to move?) and being ready to brake. A front light doesn't protect you against close overtakes, right hooks (UK: left hooks) and all the other frequent types of collisions. If you are worried about visibility, then it's better to wear hi-vis and add reflectors or possibly several smaller, cheap lights on different parts of the bike. For the driver, one superbright light is just one point, whereas hi-vis, reflectors and several smaller lights will outline the shape and size of your bicycle and help drivers to judge distance and speed. I've also seen the suggestion to have a small light on the top tube that points at yourself to light up your own shape. The only real use for a very bright light is a dark unlit path (without pedestrians) where you want to see where you're going. If you go along unlit paths a lot, I would invest in a light with a proper shaped beam, like the B&M models, that light up the path properly but don't dazzle other users. I agree with everybody else that dazzling other users is a very bad idea, for many reasons (your own safety as well as etiquette). 

Some (most?) manufacturers recommend running studded tires on pavement for the first miles to facilitate "seating". As my commuting route touches little pavement but woods, I see little chance to do this "seating" for 50 km as e.g. Nokian recommends. With a Nokian Extreme, I was not able to see a difference in spike positioning before and after the 50 km seating process. Hence, I am wondering: 

As always, each type has its pros and cons. @1 pro: can last for up to 6 hours, thin enough to fit everywhere con: not reversible, needs some initial heat & oxygen, which, at times, results in some time until heat is generated @2 pro: usually the cheapest alternative, after treatment with hot water, the material becomes liquid again and is ready for reuse con: to have substantial heat, you need some volume of the material, i.e. it cannot be used in shoes, it can be too thick to be able to fine tune your breaking power (it might not even be legal according to traffic laws to use them); usually, the heat is generated for (only) around 1 hour, i.e. for longer times, you have to carry additional pads @3 pro: you can switch these on and off, and depending on the type, can adjust the heating power in between con: depending on the exact product, you have to fiddle with additional cables and storage of batteries. In your case, I'd check electrical heating, but try the coal/metal heating pads first. However, I doubt that the coal/metal heating pads would generate sufficient heat at -50 °C. This also means, I'd check that the heating power of the electrical system is "exceptional". 

In order to protect your hands and feet, I recommend some sort of active heating. If my hands are clumsy from a lack of circulation, or if my foot gets frost bites, the other issues discussed are of secondary concern to me. Basically, there are three types: 

I am an Audax club member and so am mostly riding on high speed country roads - B class highways in the main. Firstly I would say that just as a good driver should be using a 'system of car control' to avoid collisions, then in exactly they same manner, and with exactly the same system, so should a bike rider. And this would be whether in the city or the country. Bike riders should be even more diligent in using such a system because if they are hit they have absolutely no protection - just a foam helmet! The well recognised 'system of car control' emphasises the importance of knowing what is all around - both in front, and behind, on a regular 10 to 12 second basis. That is, the rear-view mirror should be checked about every 10 to 12 seconds in a car, and whenever a hazard is first detected. I do the same on my bike - both in city and country riding. I use a good sized mirror that is sturdy, does not vibrate on coarse metal roads, or get pushed around by the wind, and is either flat or only very slightly curved. The mirror should be able to see a silver or white car at least 300m away. They are the hardest to see because they can blend in with the clouds. A curved mirror is not up to the job. And there are an awful lot of silver cars out there! Although a curved mirror, not too small or too curved, is ideal for the city. I have also developed a particular system I call 'trigger points' - points in the ride that trigger me to check my mirror, over and above the regular 10 - 12 second checks. These trigger points are due to three hazards that are of particular relevance to riders, especially on high speed country roads, to avoid being hit by a car coming from behind. Those that overtake when it is not safe to do so. The three situations, or hazards, that cause me to instantly check the mirror are a) an ONCOMING CAR, b) a BLIND CORNER less than 200m ahead (or less than 100m - 150m behind),or c) a BLIND CREST less than 200m ahead (or less than 100 - 150m behind). I have observed that a) in the situation of an on-coming car, and another car coming up from behind, most (I estimate 80% to 90% of drivers) do not do the right thing and slow down behind the bike, and wait until the oncoming car has passed before overtaking. b) and c) - In the case of blind corners and crests - Most drivers just hope that no car will suddenly appear from around that blind corner, or over that crest, while they are on the wrong side of the road. I do not take the "bugger you, I'm all right" approach. That is, just keep riding along hoping that if a car does approach from behind, that the car will do the right thing and slow down and wait. But if they don't, and then have an accident - a head-on-collison, or a side swipe with the oncoming car, or a roll over as they try to avoid that car . . . "Well it wasn't my fault - it was their fault. I was entitled to be on the road - they should have waited before overtaking . . . I never got hit, so too bad people, sorry you are injured, or dead, but at least I am still alive. And I did not break the law - you did." Of course the bike rider will also be at risk in these situations, whether by the overtaking car suddenly realising they are in trouble and just trying to miss the rider by a few cm, or actually deciding that they have to save their own neck by wiping out the cyclist! By doing that mirror check when triggered, in that 200m 'danger zone' before those three particular hazards, then I have plenty of time to move right over to the left of the bitumen so that any overtaking car can safely pass without having to cross the centre line. Or if the sealed surface is not wide enough, I have plenty of time to slow down to a safe speed so that I can go onto the unsealed side of the road. Either stopping if it is unsafe for my tyres, or continuing riding slowly until the cars have passed, and I check the mirror, plus head turn, before going back to the bitumen. All this is just exactly what good car drivers do anyway - use the same system. 

Exceptions are where the infrastructure is explicitly designed for that, for example a protected two-way bike lane with its own traffic lights etc. 

Stay away from gasoline for now. Many bicycle parts contain some internal grease/lubricant, and gasoline can get inside and dissolve the grease, so that they are no longer lubricated and protected against rust. You see advice on the internet to use gasoline, alcohol, WD40 or other stuff. People have different opinions about that, so I don't want to dismiss it, but you should know what you're doing and which parts can be damaged. For beginners, best stick to water, then dry and put some lubricant on the chain and other moving parts. 

In German, I have never heard anything similar. I think one reason is that everyday cycling is more common and many people have a cheap, battered bike to get to the railway station or the local shop, so you could argue that most bicycles you see in town would be seen as BSOs by UK cyclists. It doesn't make sense to invent a new term for something that is common and already has a name. When you observe bikes in town, in the UK (where I live now) you can rather clearly see two distinct groups: high-end bikes for the sports market (and people dressed accordingly) versus really cheap ones (often students in uni towns). In Germany it's much more a continuous spectrum with a lot of middle ground of various urban bikes, so it would be difficult to draw a boundary. Most people buy bikes in the local bike shops, but shops tend to have a wide variety from cheap, simple, factory-built ones to high-end custom-built, so the fact that they are sold in LBSs isn't necessarily a criterium for quality or price. Another factor is that "BSO" is a term that is a bit arrogant and derogatory, sends the message: "You are not doing it properly", which is what bike advocacy groups really want to avoid. In Germany, cycling is very much seen and promoted as everyday activity, and the cycling groups want to avoid terminology that would people off. It's better if people cycle on a cheap bike than not cycle at all. It's possible that the cycling sports community in Germany has derogatory terms for non-sportists, but I don't think it's common outside. Again, in UK the community is different and more sports-oriented (although that's beginning to change, in the last 5 years or so). 

I drive the same Rohloff for over 8 years and do not see an end of its lifetime. I cannot speak for other brands, but in all posts above the free-of-charge service by Rohloff, as part of their special corporate culture was not mentioned. Up to now, whenever there was a problem, the thing was being send to Rohloff and I had to pay nothing. That being said, yes there are some problems worth mentioning and I assume these can apply to other internal gears as well: 

I do not know what you mean by "on budget". Commuting 25+km one way throughout the year, I stopped experimenting with e.g. low tire pressure on otherwise unmodified bikes, or using cheap bikes during winter. Considering the (economic & health) risk you take with minimum modified, on budget bikes, I recommend to switch to public (or other means of) transportation to stay on budget. For winter biking, IMO cost savings should not be highest priority. Otherwise you pay the price when you get hurt, hurt others, or end up with damaged equipment. The only way for me to be / feel as secure during winter as without snow and ice are studded tires. If your winter conditions are as light as I understand, the rim brakes on your commuter bike should be OK. However, especially when the daily temperature variation allow ice to melt and freeze again while your bike is parked, those brakes can become hard to use. And I would spend some money on lights, which will be battery lights if you are out for cheap. 

I am planning on a new bicycle and one idea is a Fat bike with the corresponding Rohloff and a Gates carbon drive. I am using Rohloff's for more than 10 years and know what to expect. I am absolutely new to Gates carbon drive and I am unsure, whether these can be recommended on MTBs or for off-road usage. I've heard that dirt is a problem. However, the problem, according to corrsponding stories, is chiefly acoustics, i.e. sequaky noise. I've never heard that the drive would break or not perform as intended. Do the pros of a carbon drive system still outweigh it's number of drawbacks, even when when the latter is increased due to off-road usage? 

Nowadays there are so many different high-tech materials, so I wonder if there is a suitable material for bicycle locks that would be much less heavy than hardened steel. If there isn't one, can somebody explain from the perspective of materials science why? The only non-steel material used in locks that I could find is Kevlar, but mostly just as a coating around steel, and from various reviews I don't get the impression that they are better or lighter than ordinary steel ones. My understanding is that kevlar has good tensile strength (so gun bullets can't tear kevlar fabric) but it doesn't resist being sawn or cut. Carbon fibres would presumably have similar issues, it's fairly easy to damage carbon frames if you compress them so a potential carbon fibre lock wouldn't resist bolt cutters. So are there any light materials that would have the correct properties for a bike lock? And if not, why not? 

There is no definite yes or no answer whether helmets are effective. It is a choice which level of risk you want to accept, balanced against the inconvenience. When you search for "bike helmets", you'll quickly see that the arguments are very heated without much agreement. It is true that traumatic brain injuries are terrible, and if you hit your head, it's often (not always) better to have a helmet. However, to evaluate the risk you also have to take into account how likely it is to hit your head. Traumatic brain injuries also happen with similar likelihood when walking (stumble, slip on ice and hit your head on the kerb), in buildings (slippery floor after wiping...), or when being hit by a car that mounts the pavement or indeed being hit by a bicycle. Most people don't even think about those risks and don't wear a helmet all the time when walking or driving or when wiping the kitchen floor, so it is somewhat inconsistent that bicycle helmets are so intensely promoted. The actual risk depends very much on your riding style and environment. If you ride really fast, or do mountain biking, or perhaps you are a bit unstable or have a medical condition that you may lose balance, then the risk is higher and it makes sense to chose a helmet. However, if you are a slow cyclist, have good cycle paths and are generally a careful cyclist, then the risk isn't any higher than the risk of falling when you walk, so in this group many chose quite logically not to wear a helmet. Other people may wear a helmet in winter when they know there can be icy patches on their commute, but not in summer when the risk of falling is much less. So it's really a personal choice if you think your personal risk, depending on riding style, ability and environment, is higher than the risk of falling or getting into a collision when you walk. Additional note: Be cautious about drawing conclusions from personal anecdotes. You'll find lots of stories of the type "wearing a helmet saved my life" and "didn't wear one and suffered terrible injuries". It is usually not possible to know if an injury could have been avoided with a helmet. Helmets absorb only very limited amounts of energy, so if you e.g get hit by a truck's wing mirror the helmet will do virtually nothing as the energy is just too high.