It seems to me that Boole expresses here a view that was common in his time, of Language as a natural phenomenon, and of Logic as the somewhat idealized structure of (adequate) reasoning. Language may have a theory of its own, based on observation, and because the mind spontaneously reproduces abstract forms in Language (which is why Logic as a human endeavor is possible, to begin with), Language can be instrumental to (a theory of) Logic, insofar this theory is produced by Language-speaking humans. Such a theory of Logic, existing nonetheless independently of Language, could in principle be realized by a different kind of mental process, one that is general enough for abstract reasoning, but not necessarily embedded in Language. He could be hinting at the possibility of "logical machines", that would be entirely within the scope of the speculations of that time. I don't know enough to explain how far has he gone explicitly in that direction, but we all know how instrumental his work has been to the development of the thinking machines we have today. 

Here the premises are all true. Lex Luthor really is bald, and Lex Luthor really is a master criminal. But the logic is flawed. Just because one member of group X has characteristic Y doesn't mean that all members of group X have characteristic Y. Of course sometimes a conclusion will be true even though the argument does not prove it. Maybe Fred really is a master criminal. But that's essentially a coincidence. 

The logic is impeccable. If it is true that all members of group X have characteristic Y, and if X1 is a member of group X, than X1 must have characteristic Y. The flaw is that it is not true that all bald men are master criminals. Example 2: 

An argument generally consists of two parts: premises and logic. If the premises are true and the logic is valid, then the conclusion must be true. But if either the premises are false or the logic is invalid, then the conclusion does not follow. For example: 

I'll post a very unpretentious answer, just to get the ball rolling here. It seems to me that there is an extremely interesting question hidden behind this one, a question that is very difficult to formulate, but that I believe can be formulated - if enough context is added, so that it becomes expressible. It wouldn't be a question that begins with doubt, for a simple reason. The common problem with all these exercises of doubt, is that there has to be some kind of self to do the doubting - even if there is no need for a subject to do the "willing". My reply to your second question is that if action (or will to act) required subjectivity, that would be a strong statement in favor of the conception of body and soul as distinguishable things. Not something to take lightly. On the other hand, if action (or will) does not require a subjective stance, what to make of responsibility (my way of phrasing your third question)? It can be argued that there is responsibility (and thus a self that is not empty or inconsequent) in how reality is reunited in concept ("bundled", if you will), and interpreted. There may be responsibility in judging what happened, and then taking a stand. Even if there wasn't anybody there at first, there will necessarily be someone right after the action took place, precisely as a (partial) result of the action that took place, able to contemplate where it came from, and own it. Some say that the ethics of psychoanalysis, according to Lacan, is derived from this assumption. What buddhists have to contribute to the problem of consciousness as illusion is a practice of abandonment. Not exactly a thesis, mostly a path. So that would be one important difference between these two approaches, in my view, and my (indirect) answer to your first question. 

One could point out that you are presenting a logical argument, i.e. evidence, to prove that there is no such thing as proof. You create a paradox: If your argument is valid, there is no such thing as "proof", so any claim that you have proven your point is inherently self-contradictory. :-) But that said ... A classic philosophical musing is to ask, "What can we know for certain?" Of course we can quickly dismiss "I read it in a book" or "My teacher told me" as proof: Maybe the book or the teacher is mistaken or lying. You say you saw it with your own eyes? But we have all seen optical illusions. How do you know that what you saw in this case was real and not an illusion? You have a rigorous logical argument that proves it true? But how can you be sure that there is no flaw in your logic? We have all seen others duped by flawed arguments. Maybe you can even recall a case where you were convinced by a logical argument yourself but later concluded that the argument was wrong. What makes you think that your logic is infallible? Etc. Thomas Aquinas once argued that he is confidant that he, himself exists. After all, he said, I may be deceived about many things. But I can't be deceived about my own existence, because in order to be deceived, I must exist. But beyond that ... In real life, we all have some things that we would say we are 99+% sure of. I'm quite sure that gravity exists, and that 2+2=4, for example. But how sure am I that the planet Neptune exists? Or that the cosine of 30 degrees = 1/2? I'd put them pretty high, but I'd be a little more tentative. I've seen pictures of Neptune on TV ... but then I've seen pictures of the planet Tatooine on TV too. I've probably seen a proof of the cosine of 30 somewhere, but I don't remember it. To come down many steps: I doubt that bigfoot exists. But I wouldn't bet my life savings on it. Etc. My point being, Can we really say that we have ABSOLUTE, 100% proof of anything? Any such argument must ultimately rest on philosophical beliefs about the nature of reality, and about logical arguments, and I think that any intelligent, honest person would have to admit that he can't be 100% certain of these things. So I conclude that it's not a simple yes/no question, the point is proven or it is not. It's a matter of, just how convincing is the proof? 50%? 80%? 90%? Our courts routinely talk about "levels of proof". The highest standard is "proof beyond a reasonable doubt". That's the standard used in criminal cases. The idea is that, yeah, someone could always bring up some unanswered question, so there's always some room for doubt. As one lawyer put it, "It's POSSIBLE that invisible Martians suddenly appeared in the locked room, killed the victim, shoved the bloody murder weapon into the hands of the defendant, and then disappeared just as the police broke down the door. But probably not." At the other extreme is "preponderance of evidence". This is the standard used in civil suits, and it means "which side was more convincing". If you think there's a 51% chance that side A was in the right, then you must rule in favor of side A, even though you believe it is very very close. We all apply such standards all the time -- not so rigorously named, but the same idea. Before I buy a house I make very sure that I know what I am buying, that all the paperwork is done correctly, etc -- and then I buy insurance just in case I'm wrong. I go to nowhere near as much work before buying a box of cookies. If a friend said they tasted good, I may risk a couple of dollars and buy them. If they turn out to taste awful, so I throw them away. I haven't lost much, so I don't need to spend weeks studying the question. Etc. 

Although many people who hold the beliefs you described, many people who are anti-abortion identify with a "pro-life" movement that is also against things like the death penalty due to their "right to life" beliefs. These people would agree that the people you describe are holding contradictory views. 

My means of defining multiplication might look a little strange, but I don't think that should be a problem in understanding. So so far we've only dealt with real numbers and pairs of real numbers...certainly those exist. Let's make a strange observation about these pairs of numbers and their arithmetic: 

So we can call the element the square root of the element . Surely this guy, , exists in the same sense that the real numbers exist...he's just an ordered pair of real numbers in a system with a funky way of doing arithmetic. Now those elements seem like they should exist in the same way as regular real numbers, but they are a bit more complicated. They need some kind of name...since they are more complicated, how about we call them "complex" numbers. Let's also mandate that complex arithmetic works in the way that I described. So we've just set up a system of numbers that we called "complex numbers" that doesn't reference things that don't exist. We just had to multiplication in a funny way. Now let's remember our old friend ...let's give him a name. I'm lazy and don't want to give him a long name, so let's just call him . I think you can see that any complex number can now instead be rewritten as . So the complex numbers are numbers of the form where a and b are real numbers and is our old friend . There's nothing imaginary about him...he exists in the same way that his cousin exists. 

Short answer: Yes. If you could prove that such an elementary and seemingly obvious statement is false, then that would call into question a great deal of what we think we know about mathematics, and probably a lot of other things about the universe. So what? Unless you have some evidence that this statement is false, it's a pointless hypothetical. Indeed, I've had lots of conversations where someone presented me with some hypothetical about a complex subject, like, "What if it was proven that this political policy that you support doesn't work?", or "What if God commanded you to do something evil?", etc. And my response is generally to say, "I don't think that hypothetical situation you describe is likely to happen. What if someone proved that 1+1=2 is false?" In a strict mathematical sense, I don't see how you could prove 1+1=2 false because it is true by definition. The definition of "2" is "1+1". At least that's what I was taught in number theory class. Given the complexity of modern mathematics, there are probably other definitions in other branches. But you can't prove a definition false. It's true by ... definition. 

It seems that we have many questions in one here, and my answer is certainly one of many possible. I'd like to quote Charles Sanders Peirce, from an article called "Some Consequences of Four Incapacities" ($URL$ where he states his disagreement with the Cartesian principle of universal doubt: 

In defense of what is sometimes called "obscurantism", particularly in philosophy, it can be said that reason proceeds sometimes by disruption, radical irreverence, noise. It is easy to see that not all said obscurantists are of the same caliber. The same can be said of the defenders of clarity. That said, this is not what the authors you collectively refer to as "postmodern" (a denomination that is, itself, quite... obscuring), particularly Baudrillard, are advancing in their work. They are writing at a time when their readership has largely assumed that consensus in philosophy has already failed as a project, so it can be said that criticism of their work as "hard to read" largely misses the point. Poetry was never a stranger to philosophical thinking. 

There are 6 people whose lives are at stake. With the coin toss, for any given person he has a 50/50 chance of living. Assuming that each person only cares about himself, than it doesn't matter whether he is on the "1" side or the "5" side. Either way, he has a 50/50 chance of surviving. The utilitarian, of course, would reply that killing 5 people is worse than killing 1 person. Presumably that argument is not so convincing to the 1 person. In any case, the whole point of these sort of questions is to create hypothetical moral situations where no good answer is allowed to be considered, and we are only allowed to discuss which immoral action is least bad. In this example, surely the right answer is to find a way to stop the trolley, or to get the people out of the way, so that no one is killed. Why can't you jump on the trolley and put on the brakes? Or drag people off the tracks? Of course people who frame questions like this always have some reason why such good answers are impossible: you're too far away, there's no time, etc. Thus thinking is fundamentally evil, because it leads people to think in terms of accepting immoral solutions rather than searching for moral ones. I've heard plenty of exercises like this that postulate a group of people stranded by a ship wreck or plane crash with limited supplies deciding who lives and who dies. That encourages people to think in terms of, "how can I get my neighbor before he gets me" rather than "how can we work together for the good of all". Yes, in real life people do sometimes face harsh situations where they must choose the lesser of two evils. But even ignoring the extreme life-or-death scenario, in real life, how often do you have to wrestle with, Should I hurt person A or hurt person B? Much more often the question is, Do I have the character to do what is right even if it will inconvenience me?