I am particularly interested in the types of rifles that troops serving in Africa would use, especially during the 1890's. Did they have any kind of repeating rifles, or were they still using single shot rifles? Any specific details would be appreciated. 

Chain mail is more expensive primarily because it is more labor intensive to make it, and that has always been the case. However, anyone who wanted to use any form of armor had to decide what form of protection they wanted and then decide whether or not the extra expense was justified. Chain mail could tend to be heavier and would concentrate most of the weight on the shoulders, while plate mail would distribute the weight a little more evenly and could be broken into sections. However, the big advantage of chain mail was that it distributes force more efficiently and it could provide better protection against piercing weapons such as arrows. 

I found an interesting article that discusses this topic, and I believe it provided a pretty realistic explanation for this. Basically, it stated that the economic and diplomatic sanctions placed on Myanmar by the West had a major impact. The reasoning is not that the rulers of Myanmar particularly cared about the impact of said sanctions on the citizens as much as themselves. It suggests that those people who became rich through their involvement with the government had few places to invest their ill-gotten gains because the West is effectively closed off to them. 

production capacity is a major state military secret Production capacity indicates economic choke points, and, as such, is the major input for strategic military planning. In fact, the Strategic bombing during World War II was not as successful as it could have been because of inconsistent and/or flawed target selection (see Inside the Third Reich by Speer) because very little was known about the inner workings of German economy. Thus this information was always classified in the USSR. What was, in fact, published - СССР в цифрах ("USSR in digits") was, first, fake through and through, and, second, reported some information in absolutes (e.g., tonnes), some in percentages, and yet others in differences between other unknown quantities, so that making meaningful conclusions beyond "soviet economy is growing real fast" was impossible. Nevertheless, the Western economist poured over those volumes of garbage which reduced people like Birman to tears of laughter. 

Khemer Rouge were allies of China Vietnam was allied with USSR USSR & China were unfriendly Cambodia & Vietnam were neighbors and, as is common among neighbors, traditionally hostile to each other and had territorial issues. 

SU wanted to have as much leverage over the satellites to make them productive elements of the common economic system. The Soviet leadership understood that military power was determined by the industrial power, and expanded the latter as long as it could control it and use it for its own war machine. E.g., Ioffe writes writes about SU forcing the Czechoslovaks to build a reactor which would require enriched uranium (which would require soviet supplies) instead of natural uranium (which Czechoslovakia could produce on its own). There are many more examples sprinkled over various memoirs... PS. The old Soviet joke: 

I found a rather lengthy discussion on this topic at the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. It points out that the concept is most likely to evolve between two culturally similar enemies. The shared values between these two sets of people will result in a situation where "they implicitly or explicitly agree upon limits to their warfare". The Introduction suggests that just war theory has a long history. It alludes to Homer's *Illiad" and the Bible as sources of examples. The article overall makes for pretty interesting reading. It even expands to discuss the concept of "just conduct within war", in which it basically states that if war is inevitable, there should be certain principles that should be adhered to by the participants. 

Assuming this truly did happen, there are a couple of reasons that might explain why. First of all, Saladin was Muslim, and one of the of the main principles of Islam is that Muslims should help those in need. Secondly, Saladin could use this as an opportunity to send men into Richard's camp and report back on the condition and size of Richard's army, thereby giving Saladin a strategic advantage. 

First of all, I would challenge your statement that wars are bad for the economy. On the contrary, I believe history would inidcate that wars are actually very good for the economy. During periods of war there is higher employment, more manufacturing and exporting (especially of war materials), and usually more innovation. After World War II, a lot of jobs were created because of the need for rebuilding. While almost all of this rebuilding happened in Europe, there were several American countries involved with it, resulting in boosts to the American economy. Furthermore, even though the "Cold War" was not an actual war, a lot of the same factors were in play. The US was still manufacturing weapons at a high level as a preventative measure, but that still meant that a lot of people were employed. The increase in defense spending resulted in an increase in disposable income which in turn resulted in more spending, which meant the wealth was being spread among multiple sectors. 

The watershed event after which European Colonialism was doomed was WW1, not WW2. Maintaining colonies requires that the subject people recognize that the combined costs of fighting the overwhelming power of the Metropole and the (loss of the) benefits of being a part of the empire (sanitation, the medicine, education, wine, public order, irrigation, roads, the fresh-water system, and public health, not to mention common defense) are higher than the benefits of independence. WW1 demonstrated that Europeans are not a "superior master race" but a bunch of lunatics who slaughtered each other by millions for years for no good reason, and even called upon the colonial subjects for manpower. After that the colonial system was doomed, and that was even recognized officially by the League of Nations mandate system. WW2 was a coup de grâce. 

This was the only natural and generally acceptable solution, similar to the solution taken after the British empire's dissolution. Just like it would have been absurd to make the UK share the UNSC veto power with the British Commonwealth countries (erstwhile colonies), it would have been absurd to make Russia share the UNSC veto power with the Commonwealth of Independent States. Observe that the above inheritance is a "package" called "Assignment", i.e., one can hardly expect Russia to get some but not all of these items. Who would want a different solution? 

There is no formal process by which one country would declare its independence from another country. However, the most common form has been to simply declare your intentions to operate as an independent entity and then hope that the international community will recognize your claim. Historically, this has been done by a number of countries. In South America, Brazil used to be a colony of Portugal until the Brazilians declared heir independence in 1822. Portugal rattled their sabres but ultimately came to a diplomatic agreement in exchange for compensation. Guyana gained independence from the UK in 1966 after becoming a repoublic. They now remain as a member of the Commonwealth of Nations. In West Africa, the Republic of Guinea declared their independence from France in 1958. The French didn't have the means or desire to oppose it, so they were able to establish their own country. There are no doubt other examples, but the main point is that it usually came about simply by one country declaring their independence. From there, it is a combination of things that determine their success. Primarily, there is the willingness of the "mother country" to acknowledge and accept this declaration, and secondly there is the willingness of other countries in the international community to recognize it. 

He prioritized it to deny USSR the Baku oil (170MB/y). Getting Baku oil for Germany was a pipe dream (OTOH, Hitler was famous for pipe dreams - the relevant one involved Rommel from North Africa meeting List from Caucasus in Palestine and sending an expeditionary force from there to India). Getting North Caucasus oil (50MB/y) was more realistic, but less lucrative. 

At the time of the Battle of the Denmark Strait - 1941-05-24 - Soviets were still officially friendly with Germany. I wonder what the reaction to the battle was, e.g., 

PS. I am not saying that if a man fails to catch his daily quota of fish/fowl/venison, then his family will starve tomorrow. They can survive on the combination of yesterday's catch and the wife's gathering. Death from starvation was probably not an annual event. However, hunger was. PPS. Further reading: 

I don't think such a study has ever been conducted; in general, "what if" studies are not done for "low impact" scenarios, and "Khmer Rouge in power" is certainly a low impact event for those with spare resources to undertake abstract research (i.e., the "rich countries"). However, I agree with the commenters that a typical failed state (starvation, population decline/collapse) would have persisted until either a coup by an establishment insider or a foreign invasion (as actually happened) upset the balance. A popular uprising is unlikely because of the lack of leadership, potential leaders being the first to be eliminated by a terrorist regime.