I wouldn't worry about it so much. You have no reason to be concerned about loyalty to an employer, much less a potential employer. I would recommend against disclosing that you only plan to take the job if your side project fails to take off. But let's put this into perspective: one of my employers got very upset when candidates had already accepted a competing offer and still went through an interview loop. Your situation is almost the same, but it's about halfway closer to you being in a band that would like to go on tour if you manage to snag a record deal (which, I can say, a number of software/web startups are totally ok with; they want you as you can provide value to them). I will sometimes disclose that I have side projects, because 1) it usually gets me street cred with the types of companies I prefer to work with and 2) I prefer to work with companies that don't mind that I have entrepreneurial aspirations and are ok with me working on some unrelated, non-competing project outside of working hours. The tacit acknowledgment that you'd leave if it started making more money than you could pull in from your day job is more than enough. You can leave that completely unstated. However, a number of companies are not ok with you working on side projects in technology, because they want you to focus all your cognitive energy on their business problems; that's why you end up salaried instead of hourly. But many new-school startups want people that want to solve their problem, then go home and geek out on something else, because there's value when people go explore areas outside of their day job's narrow scope. I frequently learn something outside of work comes in handy months later in my primary gig. It is often worth asking about company policy on side projects in the abstract, but don't overemphasize it. If you are presented with a formal offer letter, you may wish to bring up your dilemma, and tell them you need to give some thought to whether you want to take their offer, or to focus all your energy on your project. This may lead to a discussion of maybe a staggered start (3 days a week or something), a more aggressive sales pitch on their part, or nothing, but should give you a few nights to make a decision on whether to proceed or not, and may open the door to a later start date if all the stars align. Under the circumstances, however, considering you still have a few months to go, I think your timing is a little odd. If I were working on a bootstrapped startup, I wouldn't start doing interviews unless I was worried about money soon (<2 months). Most companies want someone yesterday, though start date is always a matter that can be negotiated. 

If you've been ambiguous in your responses to the more aggressive company to the point where they think you're ready to come on board, you may not be able to salvage their impression of you when declining. If you've said you're prepared to come in to sign the paperwork, that's quite a mixed message from what you're about to do. Under normal circumstances, I always let people know when I am interviewing with multiple firms and I let them know I'd like to complete the process (assuming one party doesn't just drag things on and on for weeks on end) before committing to them, because I want to give them all a fair shot and come to my own conclusion about which firm is the best opportunity for me from both a financial and professional growth perspective. Some firms will react by giving you the time you ask for, and some just get more aggressive on the offer because they want to win; most of them will pressure you to answer you within X days since they want their position filled as quickly as possible. But in your case, the best you can do is this: Say that you've unexpectedly been presented with an offer that you didn't think would come through before you needed to make a decision, and you're just waiting for the final paperwork to come through. If you want to just focus on the preferred offer, let them know that you appreciate the offer and it's very attractive, but you think your professional interests are more closely aligned with the position at the other firm. They will be disappointed to lose out to the other firm, but most companies understand this is just how things sometimes work out. On the other hand, if you are inclined to use the alternate offer as a negotiating lever (which may be harder if they had already been convinced they had you), you can say that you think the ACME offer is very competitive in terms of compensation and in terms of your role, and see if they open the door to further negotiation by asking you what it would take to get you to take the role. I've been in both positions, both as an interviewer and as a candidate. It's not very surprising to me when we lose candidates to competitive offers, because the market for competent talent is fairly heated in my industry. As a candidate, I try to be as straightforward as possible without revealing my complete hand, so I wouldn't have gone the route you did. I'd decide what the minimum threshold for acceptance of either offer is, what the risks and benefits of each are, and make a gut-level decision that's based on known things, like compensation and role and apparent fit, and unknown things, like long term growth potential, apparent stability, and so on. 

(My answer assumes you're in the US in an at-will employment state, for the most part). Although any company will likely drop an employee in a heartbeat of their profitability is at stake, most companies will consider you more disposable if you're there on a contract basis. Many of them have been burned by ignoring or misunderstanding IRS regulations distinguishing between independent contractors (or agency temps) and full time hires, so you may find that they erect artificial barriers, like not allowing you to participate in team morale events, for the purpose of real or perceived compliance with worker classification rules. If you're an agency temporary or independent contractor, the justification for your presence is typically a project, not a team. If the project is canceled, you may be gone, even if the team remains organizationally intact. On the other hand, a project could in some cases be more important than the sponsoring team; I've worked on at least one project as a contractor that survived various forms of organizational turmoil because the project was considered a key business initiative. Many companies are not particularly well equipped to handle the needs of managing contractors; card keys, access to various systems, and so on may have convoluted or chaotic processes for which approvals are either less clear, less systematic or less simple than the equivalent needs of a full time employee. Most likely, assuming you're using office space at the client's site, a contractor will be lower in the hierarchy for obtaining space, even when it's in the company's best interest to make sure you have what you need. You're more likely to be a pawn or fall guy for internal political struggles. Your performance may be judged more harshly than that of a regular company employee. Unless it's in your charter as a contractor to make some waves, you may be expected to merely accept organizational standards (and flaws) and cope with them, rather than drive initiatives to fix them. On the other hand, if you're at a company with internal leadership challenges, there's a chance that, as a contractor, you'll be seen as more of an expert in your domain than the direct, regular employees working in the same area. People may lean on you for advice that they wouldn't trust their employees with, because of the organizational anti-pattern of empire-building that many dysfunctional organizations suffer from. It's often more advantageous to be a contractor if you're in an organization with leadership challenges, as long as you're capable of rolling with the punches of internal drama while maintaining a fairly professional demeanor. Also, if you're in an independent contractor arrangement, or subcontracting, you will likely have to do more paperwork when it comes to your taxes, including filing estimated taxes, paying a higher share of the Social Security and Medicare taxes, and so on. Unless the company you establish pays into the unemployment insurance system that your state offers, you may not be eligible for unemployment if the contract ends. (Working for a temporary agency as a W2 employee mitigates this risk, generally at the cost of a lower take home pay). The upside is that many expenses related to operating as an independent contractor can be deducted from your taxes as a business expense, rather than requiring itemization. 

It depends. Earlier in my career I used to take a skeptical view of people who never stayed in the same gig for more than a few months; my concern was perhaps they couldn't. Later in my career, I started taking a skeptical view of people who never left their jobs; my concern was perhaps they couldn't. Since I've interviewed tons of candidates (and have interviewed for jobs at a couple of companies where many people "never" leave), I can find plenty of supporting evidence for both positions, but realistically, it's actually very hard to predict how people will react. In software, however, many people are quite used to people doing a string of contract gigs. If you aren't working on a 1099 basis, but through agencies, you may want to be more explicit about the contract nature (FooCorp via BarAgency) so that it doesn't raise any hackles by people who might just assume you're quitting whenever your code starts to have consequences. If you're working on a 1099 basis, I recommend using your company as the employer, with "Engaged at XCorp on Project Y. Delivered Q solution to..." as bullet points instead of showing each project as a different "job". The biggest risk you might have as a contractor is that people will worry about candidates who have never been working on a project long enough to have to think about maintenance considerations, because they won't have suffered enough from their own previous design decisions. My current contract gig has actually lasted longer than my last two full time arrangements; I left those jobs because it was clear that either the company was about to implode or that I would stop learning things that would allow me to progress professionally. If anyone asks, I just answer honestly and tactfully. They rarely ask. Your biggest risk is the pre-interview filtering that may happen. You won't know if you're being tossed out of the pile of resumes because of your career history, but you also won't know if it's because you share the last name of the hiring manager's psychotic ex-girlfriend or because they don't want generalists, or don't want specialists. The best thing you can do for your career prospects is to build a reputation of acting professionally, working smart, and solving problems. The tech job market is small enough that you're likely to work with someone you've worked with before, and as long as the wake you leave resulted in mostly positive impressions, you'll be able to find future gigs without much of a struggle. 

The answer to this depends a lot on the specifics of your situation. On one occasion a few years ago, I basically told the other company that I had tight time constraints in my current job and couldn't get away for a three or four hour long interview loop, so I'd like to keep it very tight and then schedule something later if there was mutual interest. That worked reasonably well for them, and I was invited back that evening for another round a couple days later. It also probably reduced some of the potential for wasting time on their end, as either one of us could have cut off discussion after the first round after one or both of us came to the conclusion that it wasn't a good fit. On the other hand, I don't really see anything wrong with a little white lie about going to run an errand, see the doctor, wait for the cable guy or some other typical visit with a professional that keeps the same kind of hours your day job normally requires. This gives you plausible deniability for up to a few hours out of your day. More recently, I've enjoyed enough professional clout that I can schedule a quick phone call, meet someone from the other firm over a series of coffee or lunch meetings, things I'd be doing anyway at least on occasion with coworkers or friends who work nearby, and both sides can gauge whether we're meant for each other or not on a quick but manageable timeline. There's really no convenient time for a job interview when you're gainfully employed, and many firms accidentally or intentionally rank people who don't need them more highly than people who are out of work, so it's actually really not a terrible problem to have; most companies are thrilled to work around the schedule of someone they suspect may be a perfect fit. In terms of your own current work, as long as you have a plausible explanation for a brief absence and, if you are on a tight schedule, you make up for lost time, I wouldn't worry about hurting anyone's feelings while you're meeting with the firm that's pitching you a competing opportunity. The dynamics change a bit if you're interviewing for a gig that's out of town, but you can adjust to those situations too; I've scheduled phone calls and videoconferences off hours or during lunch before determining whether it was worth the trip to meet in person. Most companies are ok with these arrangements because it's far too expensive to fly you out if you're not really interested. If you actually go out of town to meet the other firm, you schedule it around a weekend so that it doesn't need any explanation other than you're flying out of town for a quick visit with family or friends. It's possible you may not feel like you're so powerful as to be in control of a job negotiation, so there's a chance you may feel like my advice is meant for someone of unusual professional status, but don't fall into this trap. By being gainfully employed, you are in a position of power with both your present and potential future employer, because you have the luxury of choice. If you get a competing offer, you are suddenly in a position to have two firms make a judgment on your value to them, and then you get to think about whether you're going to learn and develop more at one firm or the other. This is an incredibly nice position to be in.