All the reasons above have slight positive feedback and al the people pay taxes. The cities have usually better prices than their "customers" so that they can develop a force (army) to protect their interests. 

Do we know whether whole blade was stuck in the stone or just a part of it? Suppose whole blade is emerged in the fake-solid stone. There is a hollow full of synthetic oil to suppress any degradation of the blade. There is a bayonet mount disguised decorative-magic engraved symbols and it contains pure gold ring which serves as metal sealing. The bayonet is connected to the DNA detector and releases the sword at appropriate time. There are also rubber, viton or silicone blades just to remove the oil when the Chosen One (TM) pulls the sword out. Therefore the only part of the sword to face the ages is the handle. Luckily for Merlin there is a plenty of commercially available surface treatments to enhance the oxidation resistance and appeareance. There is hot bluing and black oxidizing finish which gives the oxidation resistance (oxides usually do not oxidize) and dark blue-black matte finish. Thin film of TiN will give the oxidation resistance and gold finish, TiAlN will give purple finish. He can also look for TiO2 film which can be superhyrophilic and when illuminated by UV light it can clean itself from bacteria and algae. Merlin can also look for rare-earth metal oxide coatings which can provide hard and superhydophobic surfaces. 

Building the boat would have required a substantial amount of time. Some creationist types have put construction time at between 70 and 120 years. Recall that Noah and co. were supposed to have lived for several hundred years. There are massive logistical problems with building the biggest wooden vessel ever constructed in ancient Iraq, not the least of which is supplies. The sheer amount of wood required to build the vessel is enormous - it would have had to have been imported to the area from elsewhere. Most of the vertebrate species on Earth are quite small. For instance, the vast majority of the 6000 amphibian species would, if placed in containers roughly the size and shape of 10 gallon aquariums, fill a volume of about 120'x15'x8' (40 3' wide shelves that are 15' wide and 8' high, crammed full of aquariums with just enough space between shelves to walk. If you could just throw all the frogs in a bucket together, then you can collapse this down substantially, of course. All but a few of the amphibians would fit into such a container easily.The other groups of vertebrates are similar, with most members fitting comfortably in a breadbox sized volume, but there are as many as a thousand species that need considerably more room. It's also difficult to count how many species there really are. For instance, the number of extant Equus species (horses and friends) is anywhere from 7 to 24, depending on how you count them. Monitor lizards dragons, the big cats, anacondas, pachyderms, and large primates are all problematic in this regard, and there's no good way to count them up by volume. If we give each of them a goat-sized stall (5'x8') and assume that the ones that are a little smaller will average out with the ones that are a little bigger, then considering all of the larger animals on the planet, you're looking at something like 40,000 square feet of floor space. With enough room to walk between stalls for feeding, the big animals would fill up about one and a third entire floors of the biblical ark. The non-fish vertebrates would have fit into the ark, barely.I initially thought that packing sufficient food for the trip would be problematic, but it is less so than I originally thought. The elephants would eat about 500 pounds of high quality food per day. The voyage was roughly a year long (a bit more if you add up all of the days) so that is roughly 70 tons of elephant food alone, another 70 cubic meters of space (assuming the food is packed extremely efficiently.) Food for a similar duration of the trip for all of the other animals would be problematic to collect, and for herbivores, the food will take up a substantial amount of space as well, though there is no reason you couldn't put that food in the enclosure with the animals. Gaining access to sufficient quantities of fresh water for all of the animals would be a challenge though. Now, could you cram all of the animals into smaller enclosures and have plenty of room? Of course you could, and if we're assuming divine intervention to deal with all of their behavior for the collection and trip, it might be appropriate to do so. In any case, the biblical dimensions, perhaps with some additional height added so that we can get three floors into it if needed, should be sufficient to hold the vertebrates and a year's worth of food. Using your rules, it would take a very, very long time and be exceedingly difficult. Any voyage would have been done by sea or caravan overland, and the logistics of moving that many animals to Iraq are daunting at best. Basically you'd have to build arks just to collect the animals to go on the ark. That is going to take years itself.The bigger problem is speciation. New species arise at a rate of roughly 1-3 per million per year. We'd expect as many as one new vertebrate species each decade. Columbus's trip took about a year, with essentially no overland travel involved. Magellan's crew got back after 3 years, again without significant overland travel. Lewis and Clark took 2 years to walk a single line across the continental US. Each new species that arose would set Noah back by years, and the time required simply to sail to every single required landmass on Earth would be astounding. I honestly don't know how to put a number to it. You also introduce the horrible logistics of caring for enormous numbers of animals while you wait for Ham to get back with the latest variety of leopard frog or whatnot.This amount of time is entirely dependent on the level of magic we're willing to accept. If the animals are not cooperative, then the collection will take forever due to speciation. If the animals are super cooperative, traveling to easy to reach ports for collection, then it might just be possible over the course of several decades or centuries. 

'Aint no animals that are immune to bullets. I'd imagine they would try and catch him in a musket volley. Even if he can survive a gunshot, or even a few gunshots, he'll go down if you put enough lead into him. They could get him with a cleverly placed barrel of gunpowder, too. Alternatively, does the old world have its own magic? They could send some witch hunters after him. The hard part would be compelling the shaman to stand his ground. If things are starting to look bad, it seems like he would have an easy time disengaging. 

They have until the queen bees starve to death. Then the world ends. If the bees can't fly, they cant collect nectar. No nectar means no honey. No honey, no bees. No bees, no pollination. No pollination, no plants. no plants no food, no food, no people. The druids would probably notice the bees' suffering very quickly, and hives would have some stores of food, so you'd still have time to save them. More generally, people would notice right away. It would be pretty weird to see a flock of starlings running across a road. "Hey Bill, why did the pigeon cross the road?" "Goddamit Adam, I already know that his is going to be one stupid joke. Hurry up and have kids so you can torture them with your lame dad-jokes." "No, bill. That bird over there. It's walking across the road." "holy crap, you're right Adam. What the hell?" 

Using ammonia as a solvent would work, though if you want it to be pure ammonia, you'll have to keep your aliens quite cold, as it boils at -33°C. Aqueous ammonia solutions would work, but that does not seem to be what you're after. Ammonia isn't as broadly useful a solvent as water, but it does allow for lots of interesting chemistry to occur, including things like relatively stable solutions of solvated electrons, which are quite unstable in aqueous systems. Lots of biological reactions will produce water, so an anhydrous alien will need a way to excrete the water just as we have a way to excrete ammonia. Maybe your alien could excrete crystals of glycerol or urinate an alcohol or something like that. In any case, ammonia is a much better choice than a hydrocarbon. Breathing hydrogen is a bit more problematic. The purpose of breathing oxygen is that we can break C-H bonds and combine oxygen with both carbon and hydrogen atoms to release energy in the metabolism of organic molecules. Oxygen is highly reactive stuff; we just don't realize it because we've evolved to walk around at the bottom of an ocean of it. If we breathed hydrogen instead, it would be far less reactive. Hydrogen will readily react with lots of things, but it typically doesn't release huge amounts of energy in the process. One idea might be to have your aliens run a biological version of the Sabatier process. The reaction is spontaneous at low temperatures, though it would never actually occur without catalysis at liquid ammonia temperatures. This would give them a means of producing some basic metabolic building blocks from materials that are common in the universe as well as provide a reason for them to breathe hydrogen in the first place. 

It did survive. There are Catholics in the UK. The protestant/catholic fighting was regional and cultural as much as it was religious. Polygamous societies cannot compete with monogamous ones. Poly societies under-utilize their male workforce, since so many of them fight/exploit each other for a chance to reproduce. They always end up with a horde of angry, virgin men, and you can't always dump them onto the EU, if you know what I mean. There were a great many criticisms of Catholicism. At its core, the mysticism - conducting religion in a language that your flock cannot understand, was the big complaint. The Church of England is very similar to Catholicism in terms of ideas. They broke away so that they could stop taking orders from the Vatican, and so that they could study the bible in their native tongue. If the European aristocracy had gone poly, it would have hastened the revolutions that killed off so many of them, and no way would it have delayed the enlightenment. 

Sex Club In most major cities, there are private clubs with a bouncer. You have to provide a password to get in. These clubs are often closed off areas of bars, where people can come and go with relative anonymity. You could have a lot of fun writing about someone who gets in by accident. Your protagonist could be a 'normal' human that's just into some weird stuff. He brings his costume, gets all zipped up and ready to go, and that's when things start to get weird. 

Penguins (or similar, but penguins make the most sense) need to be born with adult feathers and/or blubber layers so that the chicks can survive in the water. Even tropical ocean temperatures are dangerous to warm blooded animals who are exposed and unprotected for long periods of time. As an alternative, the penguins' core body temperature could drop by 20°C or so and the bird could be restricted to the tropics, but that seems a bit much. The whale route is a possibility here as well, with both babies and adults losing their feathers entirely, but penguins rely heavily on their feathers creating an insulating layer between the water and their skin. The bird must evolve live birth. Shelled eggs have undergone massive amounts of evolution to function on dry land; getting a shelled egg to work underwater again would not be trivial. All sea dwelling members of formerly land-based vertebrates either give birth to live young (cetaceans, manatees, and some sea snakes) or are forced to return to land to lay eggs/have babies unsuited for ocean life (sea turtles, crocodilians, the rest of the sea snakes, flighted sea birds, penguins, and pinnipeds.) It's a lot easier to have the egg hatch out internally (or more realistically, fail to form/lay normally and continue developing without a shell internally.) For deeper diving penguins (not at all a necessity for permanent life in the water, just ask the boto) you would need greater lung capacity and perhaps larger overall size, though king penguins can already get down to 300m or so, which is comparable to dolphins. The animal's blood would also have to be vastly enriched in its oxygen carrying capacity. True deep divers like sperm whales have adaptations to prevent the bends as well as lungs that absolutely do collapse under pressure. Trying to design a biological pressure vessel that wouldn't collapse is probably a bad plan. Underwater communication - Penguins may already do this. Early tests of little penguins at the Perth Zoo were not positive, but the zoo is not a natural environment. Further, it is not at all unreasonable for penguins to evolve underwater communication. They're extremely vocal above water. Dolphin/whale blowholes are for breathing, not for vocalization. They vocalize using "lips" that are located internally, near their blowholes, but they don't blow out air when they vocalize, so you could put the nostrils/air inlet wherever you like. As far as the nostrils moving up the head for breathing purposes, that's not that big a stretch, though behind-the-head whale nostrils are pretty impressive. Regarding prey: There is something to eat at most any reasonable depth you might want your bird to inhabit. It would require a change of diet, but an unexploited food source is an enormous evolutionary driver.