Hmm. I might have several possibilities for you. But bear in mind that I'm kind of an organic writer (I love coming up with these things then shooting them down one by one, or bettering one or two until I come to either a proper conclusion, or know what just isn't happening). So let's agree on the limitations on which these possibilities will be based. 

So you want to create death and destruction on a grander scale? Let's see how to best do this. The 'virus' may or may not have directly lethal results, but it isn't impossible for this to happen. The mind is a powerful thing, all you need to do is make the mind believe what you are selling, and you can have said mind stop the heart, ergo: death. 

There is magic in this world, which leads to the creation of said race (evolution being waved in this case). 

I don't know if I can give you a straight out answer, but I hope this will point you in the right direction. I would start by considering why these works were cast out of the canon in the first place. Things to consider (though very point of view based)? The effect this would have on the views of 'hot button topics', such as: 

Well, the first thing you need to worry about is sustaining life, that means farms, agriculture, and given trade will be impossible(cannot leave island), you need to make enough to have a buffer for bad times. So, what was the basic rule? An acre of farmland per person. And that's just survival. Given trade is impossible, you may want to invest more in backups--so I'll go with an acre and a half per person. So, now we have the basic calculation of how much per person. How many people are needed to ensure inbreeding doesn't become a problem? That's a bit more problematic, given it's more about monitoring who makes babies with who. But as a rule of thumb, let's go with an upward of 3,000 people (check around on this site, I'm possitive I remember a question that deals with that, something about a generational mothership meant to find a new habitable planet) So, 1.5 acres per person. 3,000 people. 4,500 acres just to sustain the people. Now, you need resources beyond survival. You need building materials, you need metal ore, you need industrial terrain to process this, and you need space to train people to do so. You also need government to guide and govern the people, and you need space to do research. (yeah, this isn't quite as simple as your originally worded question makes it) So, given resources are limited, you cannot just throw anything away. Once someone finds a mining hotspot, and you start mining for your metals, you're going to have a LOT of useless dirt and rock and slag and other junk you have no use for. Find a use, or your people will suffer in the long run. Use it to build houses, for all I care. But given you need a metaphorical global economy on an island? Waste is your enemy. And that includes the waste of the people! Both sewage and garbage, you'd better have something to combat that, or your people will be facing their own Black Death. Avoid that at all costs. Doubling the fact that these people will be dependant on fisheries, unless there are enough farm animals for meat and the like, you'll need them to be super careful with overfishing (given the limited range of where they can fish). That means they cannot pollute the water, and they cannot chase away the fish they need to come back. This might sound like a joke, but check Moana for island-locked life and what it takes to ruin that forever. Nothing can or should go to waste. Nothing. So, with this additional information, we need a basic idea of how much space for the extra needs. Let's round it off at 3 acres per person, for all the entertainment venues, government, research facilities, and the like. Keep in mind that once technology starts becoming more predominant they can start building up. Or just start building smarter! Harappan civilization might help you there. They were excellent builders, and city planning seems to be at the forefront of their planning. Combine all this, and you'll have a civilization that might go the distance. But you're not likely to get any further than European middle ages, simply for their lack of trade (personal opinion, and treat that as such). 

This is so much more than most would realise at first glance. First let's focus on the planet itself. As Xavon pointed out, there would be a scorched wasteland on the 'bright' side, and a frozen wasteland on the 'dark' side. Look up some information on Ryloth (from Star Wars Expanded universe). What would this mean for your planet? Well, as already pointed out, the most logical place for life to start is in the regions between the two extremes. Note, life would 'START' in the twilight band, it wouldn't be only there. So long as there is a starting platform, extremophiles will migrate and given enough time (millions and millions of years, I'm sure everyone knows the evolutionary shtick) could evolve into higher lifeforms. Second, local weather would be chaotic because of these two extremes. The hot air from the bright side would expand, and try to flood into the cooler dark side (air pressures trying to find an equilibrium). But the energy wouldn't be lost, and cold air would eventually try to trickle back to the warmer side. This would mean there aren't 'seasons' as we know them. Everything would be considerably more chaotic, changing by the day. Any life that forms would have to be hardy. Plant life, microbial life, wild life, your sapient life -- everyone needs to be tough as nails to survive on a planet like that. In all likelihood, just as in the Ryloth example, cities would form underground. I mean, if the outside world is so chaotic? They'd need a stable place to call home. It would no doubt lead to highly social groups, seeing as they need to depend on each other to survive, and to raise the young if something happens to the parents. There would most likely be fungi and meats to feast on (their staple food, seeing as both could grow naturally in caves where they call home), and there would likely be hunting parties that go out into that big, bad, chaotic world to see what they can see. There are also a lot of other factors that would/could come into play, like the culture revolving around what scant food there is (as is the case in my example) which leads to fat people being considered rich, leaders (and this is a real world example, if you look at certain African countries, India, the Middle East, fat doesn't have the same stigma as in the West). EDIT: You won't find cold-blooded beings in a world (or region, if you want to get specific) without sunlight. Seeing as they cannot regulate their own body temperatures, they cannot hope to survive without a source of heat. Expect warm-blooded creatures, and furthermore you can even expect hairy/furry creatures with excellent night vision, excellent sense of smell and hearing, and lots of excess fat. Why? Fur helps keep warmth in, losing less energy to the frigid air around them. Fat retains heat as well. With no light, they need other means of studying the world around them--hence the other senses will be heightened. I suspect no one answered your original question, because you didn't google life here on earth, or the science behind cold-blooded animals. Cold-blooded animals need sunlight, need warmth, need a means to regulate their temperature (as I already stated). This necessitates a heat source, by definition. 

Your lieutenants: inner circle. No matter how suave the figurehead, they need capable lieutenants to get the work done. After all, how many leaders fight a war on their own? Whether a battle with guns an spells, or a battle of wits in their palace among the noble you need to overthrow. You need a solid team backing you to get you in and out in one piece. These are the people that need to balance your leader. If the leader is "a lover not a fighter", then the lieutenants need to be the best warriors available. If the leader is "the strong, silent type", he best be relegated to the housekarl and let the Thane take over (Skyrim reference, in case someone did't get it). How to do it: the plan. Start off small. If you are setting this in a city, start by recruiting in some neighbourhoods. Be sure to start off with the rambunctios ones. The idealistic youth is usually a good first target, though typically harder to control over long periods. Gather a following. It doesn't matter how small, even if it's just your lieutenants at first. Then you start with the biggest issue: