Why risk wrapping the rails around the sun by going to mars? Let's go to Alpha Centauri so the orbits of the planets are trivial when compared to the distance between. Now stretching is a non issue. Just have that pesky speed of light to deal with 

Sure why not? All you need for intelligence is communication pathways and signal discrimination. That's a computer science AI perspective though. From a evolutionary biology point of view the question is, why does a fungus have hard intellectual problems to solve? It wouldn't bother getting smart unless it needed to. If you want to satisfy the biologists the fungus needs to benefit from this calorie consuming intelligence in some way. 

There's your science. You conduct experiments and make observations. Not everything needs a calculation. 

I think you just invented the most fun physics toy of all time. What you are abusing is Sir Isaac Newton's second law of motion. Force equals mass times acceleration. You could also say: force divided by mass equals acceleration. That means if mass is infinite no amount of force is going to cause a net acceleration. This has fun consequences. For one thing if it's moving when you turn it on it's going to keep moving. If you drop it, even slightly, before turning it on it's going to slowly plow through earths core for no better reason than it's not stoping for nothin no how. See Newton's first law. (And Thor's hammer). If you don't move it before turning it on you can leave it hovering in the air. Gravity is still pulling on it but it isn't gonna budge. If it wasn't for your magic the earth would be moving toward it. It almost sounds like you've suspended the third law. Or maybe you just figured out how to have all the mass you like and not cause any gravity. I know I want one. I'll spin it before turning it on. Perpetual motion! Energy crisis over! 

Religious Environmental Protection As time went on, the destruction of the planet seemed to be the inevitable end point of industrial society. Under these conditions the cult of Gaia rose to power and swiftly took the world over. But people did not want to give up the fruits of industrialised society, so a compromise was made. One small section of the planet would be sacrificed so that the rest may be left to recover and flourish. The land near the city is a blasted wasteland, with toxic runoff from the dense and heavy industrialisation near the edges of the city, but beyond a few hundred kilometres nature begins to take hold again, and within a thousand there are lush forests. Most of the planet is wild now as it hadn't been for thousands of years hence. With the wilderness comes great danger. Most humans have none of the survival skills required to survive in the wild, and taking any form of technology which could harm the planet into the wilderness is forbidden (though some would try, facing the wrath of the Zealots of Gaia). All the old frontiers have returned, and many of the old dangerous mega-fauna have been reintroduced to the world through the wonders of genetic engineering. Giant terror birds stalk the plains along with ten ton armadillos, and lizards as big as a car lie in wait to ambush the unwary. Officially there are no human settlements outside the city. Unofficially though... 

If earth suddenly lost friction we'd all die in massive earthquakes and tsunamis as all the pent up tectonic energy everywhere is released at once. But after that we'd never have an earthquake again since now the plates are perfectly lubed. Not that we'd be around to care. Don't worry, the mud slides will give us a proper burial. 

Put the city at the bottom of it. If you want to be cautions add earthquake stabilizers and inertial dampeners to your tall buildings. 

Sure, toss a cubical bar magnet into space and you have a "planet" with a magnetic field. The only question is how big it is. If it's big enough it'll stop being magnetic or cubical. A spinning core requires a mantle. So if you want to generate the magnetic field that way you need to be big. Now sure you could build eight three sided mountains on a sphere to form a cube but once it's big enough you need to make the mountains out of unobtainium. How it formed will require a hell of a back story. 

Presuming that the audience/readers are native English speakers I see no reason not to subvert English idioms. Subverting an idiom your audience has never heard of sounds pointlessly confusing. I think a simple mashup of the two gives an obvious meaning, makes it distinct, and reminds one that the speaker comes from a different perspective: What in Earth? 

One thing people aren't considering is how much faster planes will likely travel than dragons. Let's say Dragons fly, travelling, at an average speed of 120 mph, which is much faster than any land animal and much faster than any dragon in fiction. The recommended takeoff speed for large commercial airplanes is around 200 mph, and the flight speed is around 550 mph (according to Google), so while the dragons might be more maneuverable and hear them coming, they may or may not realize that they have to move out of the way to avoid being creamed before its much too late, which considering the speed difference is likely a few seconds. The good news is that dragons probably won't bother flying at 35000 ft, so they'll mostly just need to be restricted from flying within a few miles of major airports or military airfields. This of course assumes the dragons are intelligent and realize the danger to themselves, if not the humans may have to develop environmentally friendly ways of keeping them away from airports (dragon whistles?), or failing that just shoot them down if they get too close and hope the rest get the message. If they were more like wild animals though, they probably would be mostly scared off by the sound of jet engines like real birds. 

Explosive decompression not your thing? At Willy's used force fields we stock the latest in dynamic envelopment technology. So smooth it didn't even wake this sleeping baby! "Shush! Don't wake the baby." 

Willy sells only the best! Won't stand behind his product though. Likes it better inside where he can breath. All sales final. 

I don't think this would devastate or invalidate the scientific method. It may well keep it from becoming popular. We live in a semi non-deterministic world now. But there is a clear distinction between the deterministic parts and non-deterministic parts. We expect a rock to be a rock. But we expect people to be moody. In a world like you describe, physics may have less to do with Newton's laws and more to do with Sigmund Freud's. If you want a rock to be a rock you may first have to spend some time listening to it talk about the day it's had. So science wouldn't be dead. But it would sure be different. If this god keeps screwing around eventually he'll get caught and a theory about him will be born. You're describing a case where he's leaving indirect evidence behind. Sometimes that's enough. We make have discovered a new 9th planet just by looking at how the orbits of other objects have been arranged. 

Easiest solution is that the sword 'blade' itself is actually a plasma stream. That way, in order to make it fire a plasma bolt, it can simply fire a vortex out of the same opening the plasma comes from which should hold it together for a short while, while a beam simply involves ramping up the blade power (though without the vortex range would be shorter). You may want to hand wave some powerful magnetic confinement, or else have a sheath that is kept inflated by the plasma pressure (this partially alleviates the heat problem, and makes your sword more solid). Some things to consider if you're worried about realism: how is the sword powered, and more importantly, how does the wielder deal with the intense heat? 

What it takes is simply for messing around with Biology to be easier than it is in the real world. Imagine Biology turned out to be much like Chemistry, there are relatively simple things you can try to get reasonable and reproducable results, and eventually you can create theories to predict how things will work before you even try them. It could be as simple as mixing some cells from one organism into another during development, with trial and error until you get a viable strain which you can then just breed. No plastic is easy to consider, there are few uses for plastic you couldn't get from simply growing something in the right shape. Steel is harder, because it's... harder. There isn't an organism with the strength of steel, but you could perhaps simply have things grow out of hardwood but thick enough that it's strong enough anyway. Brains might turn out to be super easy. Perhaps you just transplant them (after growing in vats) and they automatically create connections to any loose nerve ends you've built into your device. You'd have to say there is no such thing as biological rejection, all biological things by default likes to grow into each other (or perhaps theres an easy way to turn such protections off temporarily). 

This can be done, but doing it with a satellite based laser is doing it the hard way. If you want to weaponise a satellite use it for what it's best at: communicating. Hire yourself a team of hackers. Give them the world's best anonymity shield. And set them to work hacking the world's toasters. Soon you are starting fires all over. That tank truck will burn nicely after it's breaking system has been reprogrammed. After the driver somehow rolls away to safety his cellphone's battery starts to burn. Sure, it's not a flashy death ray from above. But it is a death ray, from above. Burn you technophiles! Burn! Now excuse me, I'm going to go unplug my toaster. 

Getting feet confused with meters and screwing up your reentry plans. Resulting in a fiery death. Close encounters with space clutter. Resulting in violent death. Overestimating how long equipment will remain functional while you're in stasis. Resulting in eternal sleep, AKA death. Technological advancements while you're in stasis. Resulting in being salvaged for scrap by faster ships that put you on display in a museum, after 'accidentally' causing your death. Actually making it where you're trying to go and finding no one else survived and nothing interesting to do. Resulting in being bored to death. 

After a breach like this, Facebook is dead. Other answers covered that already, so I'm going to focus on something else. Consider all the sites that use Facebook for login. Presumably, a hack like this would also allow the hacker to use any other site where they farmed their account authentication to Facebook. They would probably lose fewer users to this, but may have to completely reset backups on the accounts linked to Facebook and may have to completely rework the site if the only authentication method was Facebook. With that in mind, many of these sites allow Google+ authentication as well so Google+ market share would go up. Additionally, something that this question doesn't examine is the impact of making the actual Facebook site compromised. Luckily browser security is quite a bit better now than it was, and just visiting a site is somewhat less dangerous, but most likely whoever is doing this figured out at least a few zero-day exploits that work on browsers to infect anyone who goes to facebook.com, and additionally any site that links to Facebook's scripts. Now think of every site on the Internet that links to a Facebook "like" button. In the worst case scenario, every computer that connects to those sites before they remove the malicious code and doesn't block that code from running is now part of this hacker's botnet. That's a lot of news sites, blogs, forums, etc. In an even worse case, perhaps those sites use a server-side code to execute Facebook's API, which means all of their servers are compromised as well. In terms of longterm effects, my guess is that inter-site authentication/functionality will become less common, many more sites will download JS libraries to their site rather than rely on third party repositories, and in general hopefully people will become more concerned about security. Maybe they'll even stop posting their nude photos on social media sites (they won't). 

Breed you own ants. Sterilize them. And let them take over the planet. Wait a few generations and your intelligent ants will be destroyed by cheap immigrant labor. Ether that or they'll elect an orange ant with bad hair, in which case they're doomed anyway. 

It's still a sharp pointy stick. I wouldn't buy one but if you came at me with one I would definitely start paying attention. 

Depends on the smith and how complicated your design ends up being. You have me thinking of playing with piano hinges at the hardware store. 

Biggest problem you have is that you've been asked to do this by the government. So lets take care of that. First, hire a bunch of pharmaceutical engineers. Have them develop an efficient way to extract poison from the jellyfish. Use that to supply the government with blow darts. This will turn out to be lame, but since you're a campaign donor and since it's what the government asked for, just not what they needed, you'll be fine. Now that you have a steady government contract you can hatch your real plan, skimming. Take the most deadly of the jellyfish out to make herbal supplements. Don't actually claim it cures cancer and warn people about how incredibly dangerous it is. Make them sign liability waivers. The more you hype the danger the more people will want it anyway. Soon as someone dies dilute the heck out of it and call it "homeopathic". Now you're free of reliance on the government. Use this same cynical view of mankind to branch out into other ailments until you have a vast economic empire. Whenever your enemy's confront you, you can hire a team of lawyers to sue them into oblivion. Or just smack em in the face with a bucket of jellyfish chum. Whichever's easier.