No either. If so it would have no grave effects to abrove foolishness. It's importand and even the highest quality to be right judgemental and only partial to what is real and leads to secure: e.g. liberation. 

If having further an detail question or seeking for an intensive discussion to work thinks good out, one might feel always given to do so here (careholders here don't like such to happen here, sometimes but not always). Always happy, since people at large often give statistics more value then discerning observations, inwardly and outwardly, this topic here "Lessons from Sardinia: respect towards elders leads to a significantly longer life", in a usuall opposing proper discerment enviroment, might give some source of thoughts in regard of "one gets what one gives" and why "conservative" (good tradition preserving) societies are more garants for harmonious and long live while usually pseudo liberalism, postmodern and commonist tendencies are merely the enviroments of short live and joyless vegetating. 

No one fails in recognize someone with even slight doubts "but" and "if's" in this regard as fools and one does always good to avoid them like fire and poision. 

Once, again, right view is adopted by faith, certain vision or even clear seen and gained, generosity, after virtue and gratitude proper and right placed is no more a matter at all. At this point, not out of reason, one is incapable to do grave, even deliberated misconduct and behave improper. May it be for release and ease, who ever might be capable to take, make use and understand. And be carefull, it's not free and not without strings and one might be already hardly caught, with no chance to fall back any more! 

First of all, you don't have to take your life, even if you didn't cure your suffering. There are many escapes available from pointless suffering in this world. You can travel, spend time online or even spend time playing video games etc... But do you want to do that? probably not. And why not ? probably because there is a better alternative available. The possibility of ending suffering. All the issues you have mentioned are solvable. All of these are conditioned and all conditioned things can be ended, the Buddha himself said so. If things are not working for you in your current meditation practice, try to make some alterations (like picking a (different) teacher, changing the method to see what works better for you etc) but continue to practice, as that is the only way to end suffering in this life. May you find peace, May you find your inner happiness! 

If you have crossed Arising and Passing away (mistakenly taken as kundalini, or enlightenment experience) Yes, it is expected you go through it at some stage. refer to: $URL$ $URL$ 

Simple answer: It's a phase, it will pass. Detailed answer: Mindfulness meditation doesn't result in a strictly upward curve in terms of clarity or perceived well being. This is one of the reasons for getting guidance from someone experienced, so that they can give you proper feedback on whether you are making progress or not. If you don't have a teacher/can't find one, I can give you some tools for self diagnosis, let me know in the comments. But be warned, self diagnosis has its own issues and assuming oneself to be in different stage can cause unnecessary and needless suffering that one can do without by just sticking to regular practice. $URL$ refer to rows 2 (possible current stage) and 3.1 (possible reason for worsening symptoms) 

There are great answers here, but there's something you said, in both the title and body of your question, (well, in your original title, before editors removed it), that no-one here is speaking to: the focus on "Change From Within", and "their understanding of suffering must come from within." Must it? Here's why I'm putting a spotlight on the question: 1) Because everything is connected. 2) Because of the importance of the Sangha. 3) Because of the Buddhist focus on Anatman, rather than Atman. 4) Because of the value of "practices". 5) Because of personal experience, of impacts, limitations, and drawbacks--mixed blessings at best--related to this concept, that must come from within. This emphasis on "change from within" is such a cultural assumption of the 60s, and of the New Age movement, and of Americanized Buddhism... but I'm not clear how much it was part of Buddhism's "original product". (Someone else speak to that?) Does change come from within? Absolutely. Does change come ONLY from within? Absolutely not. (Not dealing with, right now: whether enlightenment actually involves "change"... and is there anything that needs to "come from" anywhere.) Following the numbering above: (1) ItsAllConnected: if the "inside" and the "outside" are actually One, then why not notice the intermingling, when doing "inner work"? (2) The importance of the Sangha. A quote from Buddha: "Admirable friendship is actually the whole of the holy life. When a monk [or anyone else] has admirable people as friends... he can be expected to develop and pursue the Noble Eightfold Path." ($URL$ If change is from within, what does the Sangha do? (3) Anatman, rather than Atman. This focus on what's "from within" can actually be isolating. I'm not making "retreat" wrong -- it definately has value -- but want to point out that we can be standing in the point of view of the "us" we're being connected with. Some of the most enjoyable meditation I've experienced stands in this point of view... and just standing there, and noticing how that interacts with feelings, can be transformative. (4) Are practices "internal"? If it's all from within, then why sit? Because the internal and the external are in cooperation. (5) When you stand in the point of view that "the real stuff comes from within", it automatically presents you with a quandary, whenever anyone tries to contribute to your process: you have to somehow make it "within", for your "self". And sure, approaches like that to "internalizing" things can be of real value... but it can also add a "chronological step" (this has to happen, before that), that doesn't actually always have to be there. We're in this together, and if what you're saying resonates / feels like a fit / aligns with the Four Immeasurables (equanimity, love, compassion, empathetic joy), then is that enough to simply run with it? Or do I need to make sure it first "works for me"... whoever "me" is? In a similar way, while it would be one form of separateness (superiority), for you to see your buddy as "needing you to tell him," it would be another form of separateness (isolation), for you to withhold because "he's got to get it on his own." ((Another thing I'm not going to try to handle right now: healthy "boundaries", which, lol, I think can paradoxically serve a purpose, even in a point of view of connectedness.)) 

Of course very useful and in same value Utopia: Opening the Door to the Dhamma: Respect in Buddhist Thought & Practice The orderline duties » sila » generosity ... from the gross to the fine, can btw. be also traced likewise, as tried to point out at the beginning, in the Mangala Sutta and at each level of fullfilment or able to renounce certain relation and it's benefits, debts are growing void and giving is step by step growing to real generosity and compassion. Once a state around the stanca 6. and 7 is reached, no more falling back will accur for one. Anumodana! [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

While Sujatha, and others, even if worse, could trace practice and good ways within her sociaty and being reminded, it's probably total impossible for a modern, western person, having grown up in a communist, socialisitic, postmodern society to ever get a needed enviroment given that they seek for advices in even more "brotherly" Kolkhoz (resource another), under other slaves with no liberality or usuals to walk after liberation. So if really wishing to get it understood and become capable to adopt and practice good conduct, like always, starts with association with wise and avoiding the fools like poision, or to best train to possible gain existence in a area where basic right view is still something practiced amoung many, become blessed. For even, as my person heard, recommended and as good estimated branches of monks even wish their lay people not to use proper addressing - "don't do so, we are all equal here in search" - and prefer that what they are used to, by birth, not having chanced, the lighter bearable "homie-hood" to ensure their gain, growth and existence. Let my person share a simile for encouragement to put all effort into seek for real refuge, inwardly and outwardly and to learn to become a devotional person not to Mara, not to Death, as usual in the world, amoung "friends", in a dusty on-house-holding (e.g. senses) life: 

Everyone has craving, except Arahats and the Buddha of course. You need to look more closely. May be your craving is for a state of no responsibility, perhaps? 

There is suffering, that is the first noble truth. May be you can contemplate on that, see how it applies to you? Also I'm curious, based on this and your other questions as well, have you diagnosed yourself for ADHD ? I suspect you might have a mild case of ADHD, based on what you have reported - lack of focus, lack of interest in mundane things etc. (If that is the case, I see only two options - you have to find some innermost passion or obsession and use that as a fuel or use stimulant medication) Hope this helps! 

I have experienced the same things that Andrei has mentioned, i.e., loss of joy, relating with normal people, loss of interest in entertainment and other worldly stuff (in no particular order). It even became crippling at one point when I didn't clearly understand what was happening and tried to correct myself unskillfully. But as with many things it was a phase and I no longer suffer from those issues. Some things can become worse before getting better, so even if certain things seem to become problematic at some point it doesn't mean that it will remain that way. I know its not wise to generalize, but that is my experience anyways. 

One does not take on something if really knowing that it is no refuge does not make sense at all and guards no security, but because being usually see permanent and satisfaction in what is pointless and not of lasting and viz. defilents are capable to argue even on a total ignorant level yet not seen. In times when people are cheated to have even much controll over things it's even more difficult to face the truths of aging, sickness and death and waste precious life and possibilities, not easy to gain away. It's wiser to Affirming the Truths of the Heart and put all effort into striving after something that makes sense rather to be just another "functioning" fool feeding for the sake of being food for illusions. Yet of course it up to the individual to strive for wise ways and really nobody could urge others to see and fear realities and make use of seldom possibilities to escape. At least ones ideas and current statisfactions with ideas are not for sure: watch out of how much suffering it will cause when the idea construction starts to decay or to further maintain it's existence. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, given for release, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade.] 

Ordinary equanimity is based on gross ignorance/moha. The two illustrations here might also provide for an understanding: Ignoring the truth & Bhaṅgañāņa and bhayañāņa. Some "provoking" questions for an understanding in this regard may be also found here: Freed of Fivefold Fear. Typical outwardly indicators for people dwelling in household-equanimity is total lack in basics like gratitude, goodness, generosity and virtue. Once such states a reached, people are merely hopless lost which is one reason the Buddha often nearly "fighted" against teachers leading in such directions while other teachings, even if not much of benefit have been merely tolerated as current wishes for certain destinies of others. The immense danger of giving rise to firm household-equanimity is also the reason why in Bodhisatta-vehicles the teaching of emptiness of immature people is a grave fault and breach of the root vows, knowing that they are walking on a tiny edge and althought propably even understood as encouragement to act wrong. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, given for release, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade.]