The point of meditation is not to make the mind devoid of thoughts, but to stop being dragged by them. Not to follow them, not to feed them, and so on. 

Besides the other answers, rebirth and samsara can be interpreted from a psychological point of view. The realms (or kingdoms) of samsara can be seen as mind states, and rebirth like the change of our lives. Samsara, in short, represents the vicissitude of the human condition. Or in plain Buddhist, it shows us the impermanence of material and psychological states. One day it is all good and happy, the next is not so good, than you feel OK, but something makes you upset, then you get a lot of work to forget those troubles and everything, then you start to feel better, but soon you start to feel stressed, and then you get a nice weekend, and so on. That's samsara, the ups and downs of life. And about death and rebirth, you aren't the same person you were 10 years ago, and within 10 years you will be another person (if you keep on dying and rebirthing). In other words, the person of 10 years ago is dead, and now you are another one. And the person you are now, will be gone as you become another one. One characteristic of Enlightenment is equanimity, that is, mental and emotional stability. Life will still have its ups and downs, but it won't be like a roller coaster, but more like a boat on a calm lake. And also, you won't rebirth anymore, in the sense that your personality and behavior will stabilize and you won't change from that. 

You started meditating. If you're having strange experiences, you're doing it right. The "truth" is coming into view and your ego is dying. When your ego is loosing control, he will do everything to gain that control back. Thus, your ego is giving you pleasant experiences. Your ego wants you to crave for these experiences. He wants you to play with them until your death. If you play with the experiences, you'll never see what's behind your ego, thus you'll never gain control of it, never see the "truth" and no liberation from suffering will follow in this life. If these experiences are interesting to you and you crave for more, then explore the experiences you described, don't fight them or search them, if they arise just play with them. Sooner or later you'll reach a point where there will be nothing new to explore in these experiences. Nothing new to play with. When you reach this point, start asking yourself "Why these experiences arise? What's behind these experiences? What's the cause?". Explore your mind and search for the cause. You'll find the "truth" and liberation from suffering will follow. If you're willing to let go of these experiences now, then let go of them. If they arise, just relax, empty your mind, do nothing, and let them cease without trying or wanting anything. When you'll reach a point where you'll be able to just observe your mind, without reacting, without craving, clinging or aversion arising in your mind, these experiences will stop. Then, you'll be able to explore your mind further and you'll find the "truth" and liberation from suffering will follow. 

No, because in this definition intelligence implies suffering. By the way, in Buddhism, intelligence could be understood differently. 

I've been meditating (somewhat regularly) about one or two years back. Mainly shamata, and vipassana lately. Today I feel that my willpower is considerably lower than before. I mean, I used to be very interested in a variety things (such as music theory, matial arts, computer programming paradigms, algorithms, and so on). And lately I'm not feeling interested in them so much as I did before. Some years ago I used to think about them, study them and practice them. Lately I'm not engaged in any of these activities, besides what relates to my job. Sometimes I think about getting involved with one or another of them, but soon I feel unwilling to get exposed to unsatisfying activities, I feel there is no sense to make effort on impermanent matters. When I started meditating I thought I wouldn't lose "my interests", and now I feel somewhat lost by this lack of enthusiasm. It doesn't feel bad at all, I'm just a bit unsure about letting my secular skills and interest fade away. I'm not sure it is ok if this unwillingness deepens. Do you think it is OK? Is it expected in the Buddhist path? Do you think I should let it happen? Or do you think there is something missing in my practice? Do you think something must be done about it? I'm asking for an advice, so I'll allow myself to be partial to choose an answer. 

Source: $URL$ Whoever holds the belief that this Dhamma continues after the annihilation of the physical body, holds this belief because he believes that his self continues after the annihilation of the physical body ... because how else could this Dhamma continue after the annihilation of the physical body, if it wasn't because his self continuing after the annihilation of the physical body? Whoever says "Dhamma continues after the annihilation of the physical body" holds this view because he believes his self exists and transmigrates from Dhamma to Dhamma. How can his self transmigrate, if everything is not self? If everything is not self, his self cannot transmigrate. If everything is not self, there is no self that can transmigrate. Beliefs in nihilism should be abandoned 

No, being in a commited married life does not make it impossible to attain Nirvana. Being in a commited married life helps you towards reaching Nirvana. Suffering always helps you reach Nirvana. When suffering is present, commited married life can arise. When commited married life arises, good action and bad action towards liberation arise. When good action arises more than bad action, knowledge leading to liberation rises. When knowledge leading to liberation has rised enough, liberation follows. When liberation follows, suffering has come to an end. When suffering comes to an end, compassion for suffering of other beings is arised. When compassion for suffering of other beings is arised, only good action towards these beings is arised. When good action towards beings is arised, your strive to help these beings become liberated is arised. If suffering comes to an end while being in a commited married life, your strive to help your woman (or child, or family,...) reach liberation is arised. Sometimes this means ending the relationship. Sometimes it means staying in the relationship. You see, when you reach Nirvana while being in a commited married life, it's like reaching Nirvana while being a butcher in your own farm (the case is extreme, but it is not impossible). When you reach Nirvana while being a butcher in your own farm, what do you do with your animals? Yes, you stop killing your animals. But, do you let them go? No, because letting them go, would be the same as killing them, as they don't know how to survive because they were domesticated by you. So, you decide paying the price for your past bad actions - you stay with the animals, feed them, nourish them, teach them how to survive, help them towards their strive to end their suffering. Only after you've done everything you could to help your animals, you let go of them. Only a liberated mind can know when he has done everything he could to cleanse his past deeds. Once you let go of them, you never, ever, build your own farm again. 

The Buddhist take on the world and the scientific take on the world share many similarities. Science deals with a negational 'truth' at its core - knowledge arises through disproving a negatively stated null hypothesis (that the phenomenon being measured has no effect). Scientific theory is accepted if the data rejects a null hypothesis to a certain statistical significance. This, in it self, does not provide for Absolute Truth and a theory derived from evidence gathered from the world cannot have 100% accuracy, if only because science extrapolates rules from measuring a sample of a population to which the rule is aimed at. The sample being measured must always be at most n-1 relative to a population of n, meaning absolute certainty about a population is not possible. The search for answers through negation works well in a world of non-self, and it strikes me as similar to the Buddhist approach to dealing with Nibbana. And because the Truths found are negational, there is less psychological incentive to stick to your guns against new evidence. Science advances by discovering new phenomena and replacing theories about old ones that fit the data better - Aristotelian Mechanics to Newtonian Mechanics to General Relativity. GR is not a denial of NM, simply a superseding of it due to higher accuracy. (I think this is similar to what Karl Popper writes btw, his take on science is good). In this sense the scientific method can be seen as a method of sorting hypotheses according to accuracy. Because of the possibility to sort theories, and of unbiased methodology, the scientific method has lead humanity to a closer experimental understanding of 'things as they really are'. And by this I mean the scientific method is rediscovering dependent origination, in a mathematical context. Science has relativised concepts - velocity is a meaningless term unless stated with reference to another body. In special relativity, simultaneity of two distant events is meaningless without reference to an observer (doesn't have to be conscious). In general relativity, the spacetime position of an object is meaningless, unless referenced to a gravitational field. Theories seem to describe more the more we take away our own assumptions within them. Remove man-made constants and theories explain more and more. General relativity is background independent - it is derived from first principles, without a man made input, and it has yet to be proven inaccurate. The most interesting one is quantum mechanics (a theory of motion at the smallest scales), because it delves the deepest into 'things as they are', and because it has been stuck in the essentialist Copenhagen interpretation. But even this view is becoming relativised atm. $URL$ $URL$ the first being the groundbreaking paper on it, the latter a simpler description. RQM states that the state of an unmeasured system is meaningless because meaning comes from the interaction between systems, rather than any intrinsic property of a system. In fact, it says that all properties arise from interactions between quantum systems, the quanta is found empty - Anatta by definition. Because of this, RQM does not allow for the state of 'All of everything' (where would the measuring party be to measure such a state?), sits ambiguous on determinism and whether we suffer a unique history just repeating on us ($URL$ This is Anicca, but it naturally follows on from Anatta (can't built anything permanent and deterministic with empty building blocks). Because the Buddha's message was an expounding of actuality as it is, it should not disagree with the scientific method - the unbiased examination of actuality as it is. In this sense, they should (and do) work with each other to enlighten our world view.. In fact, the relativisation of experience with the help of the scientific method is humanity coming around to supramundane right view imo. However, with regards to desire, the question of whether the scientific method stands with Buddhism is probably more accurately answered if it is known whether the scientific method encourages the four right exertions. So long as the method limits unwanted qualities and raises wanted qualities within its practitioners or benefactors, then it's of benefit. In terms of the physical - bodily and mental health - it is a great asset. You can't escape dukkha by engineering it away, but you can make people's lives less miserable, which is compassionate and should give them a better chance to advance their psychology. Science has yet to play out with regards to where it will lead human consciousness - it has never fairly stated a world view (beyond its methadology), because it never had one truth to neatly jump back to, like it is finding now with non-self across disciplines (RQM isn't really popular even though it's so parsimonious - appeared properly in 1996 and only around 5-10% of quantum physicists endorse it). As such science has less influenced how humans behave, rather more what they can do once they have chosen their behaviour patterns - both the peaceful and the violent have more tools at their disposal! In a world of Anatta though, it would be unfeasible that the 'internal examination of things as they are' (Buddha) and the 'external examination of things as they are' (science) would ever come to anything but the same answers if the methods used are unbiased. As such, they should work together very well! 

I didn't say: stealing arises when the decision to steal occurs. I said: stealing arises when the decision arises that "something was stolen". Suppose there is a business-man and a business-woman. Suppose the woman lands to the man a large sum of money. Suppose the man keeps track of the money he owns to the woman on a piece of paper in his office. Suppose the woman, having a good memory, decides to keep track of the money the man owns in her mind. Suppose a few years later, the man successfully returns to the woman all the borrowed sum of money. He makes a note on his paper that he returned the sum to the woman. After a week he sees that his notes about the loan are not needed any more, thus he trows the paper in the trash. Now suppose after a month the woman, having an imperfect memory, mistakenly thinks that the man still owes her money. She comes in his office requesting money to be paid. The man refuses and claims that he has repaid the loan in its entirety. The woman, not knowing the man repaid the loan in its entirety, truly thinks that he has not. She starts storming in and out of his office exclaiming: "You are scamming me! You are a thief!". then the woman sues him in court, 100 % sure that she was scammed/robbed by the man, claiming he is a thief and he should perish in prison for his deeds. Here, even though stealing has not occurred, it has occurred and unwholesome kamma is being generated for the woman due to her bad temper because she was scammed/robbed. Even though no stealing has occurred, in her reality she is truly and genuinely being the victim of stealing. Now suppose the man is a meek person, very naive, weak in character and without firm grounds on where he stands. This naive man, listening to the blaming of the woman, would start to believe the woman that he has not repaid the entire loan. He would be so weak in character, that he would really start to believe that he has stolen her money. Thus, he would feel that he has stolen the money and he would feel guilt, even though he hasn't stole any money. Again, even though stealing has not occurred, it has occurred and unwholesome kamma is being generated for the man due to him scamming/robbing the woman. Even though no stealing has occurred, in his reality he believes he has truly scammed/robbed the woman. Thus, no stealing occurs, until a decision is made that "something was stolen". Same story, same man, same woman. But none of them keep track of the loan. Suppose the man returns to the woman half the loan, genuinely thinking that he has returned the entire loan. Suppose the woman, not keeping track of the loan, genuinely thinks the loan was repaid in its entirety. Here, even though stealing has occurred, stealing has not occurred and neutral or wholesome kamma is being generated for both the man and the woman (a potential exists for unwholesome kamma in the future due to the fact the woman can find out and make her mind that she was scammed/robbed). Thus, stealing occurs, when a decision is made that "something was stolen". Let me put it this way: Suppose there was a very modest and compassionate person. Suppose this modest and compassionate person was hungry. He goes to the store and buys himself a sandwich. Suppose a beggar comes by who is very hungry and steals the sandwich of this very modest and compassionate person. That modest and compassionate person then exclaims: "That beggar did not steal my sandwich. He is not a thief. He should not be punished for his deed.". Now, suppose the same story, but instead of the beggar stealing, a rich thief comes, full of greed and selfishness ... with golden necklaces around his neck ... with diamond rings on his fingers ... with abundant richness ... extremely infatuated with sensual desires ... this thief being hungry steals the sandwich of that very modest and compassionate person. That modest and compassionate person then exclaims: "That thief stole my sandwich! He is a thief! He should be punished for his deed!". Now suppose there was a hungry person, very outgoing and rational, who has a hungry family and is in need to feed his family. Suppose this hungry, outgoing and rational person goes by a large container containing food that will be thrown away. He thinks to himself: this food is not mine, but it will be thrown away, thus it has no owner, thus if I take it I am not stealing it. Why don't I take some and feed my family with it? Thus he takes some. Now suppose there was a hungry person, very modest and compassionate ... very sensitive to blame ... who has a hungry family and is in need to feed his family. This hungry, modest, compassionate and sensitive person goes by that same large container containing food that will be thrown away. He thinks to himself: this food is not mine, but it will be thrown away, but it is not mine. I will not steal it. I will not take some. Thus he does no take some. Thus, stealing occurs, when a decision is made that "something was stolen". 

Sometimes the mind is more quiet, sometimes it is more uneasy. Don't expect that in meditation you will always progress, or that the progress will be steady. Don't create the expectation that the mind will always settle when meditating, because it can be unsatisfying. Don't fight your mind and don't force it to calm down, it can be frustrating. Instead, when you notice your mind is wandering, bring your awareness back to the object of meditation. The practice of meditation is not to stop adding concepts to the thinking actively, or to learn to interrupt the process of thought. But it is more like weakening the impulse and momentum of thought. Thinking will never completely cease as it inherent to the human being. But with practice you get less overwhelmed and blinded by it, thinking becomes subtle and calm. Then, don't be anxious about being peaceful or settling the mind, because this anxiety defeats the purpose of meditation, it just would feed the eager to think. You can also practice to perceive the thoughts in a distanced manner. When someone is wandering on the thoughts, it is like he/she is immersed on them, being carried away by them. Then instead of being in the flow of the thinking, try to watch the thinking from outside. Be aware of the process of thought, perceive how it moves and watch it go away by itself. Instead of trying to block the chain of thoughts, something that is usually ineffective, try to stop feeding it and let it go. There is also shamata, a practice to improve the stability of awareness. Begin by keeping the focus on the breath as long as you can. It seems that shamata is commonly disregarded for its simplicity, but it is very important. How can you meditate on something if you your awareness isn't stable? If you are really into it, I suggest you to read the book "The Attention Revolution: Unlocking the Power of the Focused Mind" by Alan Wallace. And last, vipassana can be helpful to perceive that it makes no sense to "feed the trains of thought". From one side, thinking usually tries to fight the impermanent and unfulfilling marks of existence, and asserts the identity (the concept of self). From other side, thinking itself is impermanent (it is mostly random in the long run), is unfulfilling (its desires and aversions are never completely met) and have no self (it is not absolute, nor apart from everything else). Although thought is produced, you don't need to get overwhelmed and blinded by it, you don't have to be driven by it. EDIT: Adding some more explanation on second paragraph after the quote, regarding interrupting the thought or stopping adding concepts to it. And adding a bit more info to shamata and vipassana part. 

Buddhism differs from others in that rebirth is not a transmigration of a Soul, nor of any specific entity. It is more of a statement that perceived experience being subject to conditions - finding itself empty of any and all self referential properties - cannot logically be seen to either have a concrete beginning nor a concrete ending, whilst the conditions for the arising of said experience are present. When the notion of an Essential, Independent and Unchanging Atman/Soul is taken at its word, then at birth and death, that Soul must either appear from somewhere, or disappear somewhere, respectively, as Essentialist religions infer. The Buddha's aim was to show that what is directly perceived - impermanence and non-self - does not allow for termination of the conditioned (as that would be a process with a permanent conclusion), nor does it allow for some unconditioned and unexperiancable entity flirting off to invade somewhere else, as that is not directly perceivable by entities that depend on conditions for their perception.. The point is that there is no duality of 'cessation of the conditional'+'non-cessation of the non-conditional'. There is simply the continuation of conditionality. Ending the process of rebirth is the act of removing whatever conditions make up the necessary support for some conditionally-defined object: there is no 'rebirth' for my desire to drink, because I have removed the necessary conditions for this conditioned entity called 'me' to lunge for booze - the condition removed is craving for beer. This craving is removed volitionaly - volition being the arbiter of Kamma and its fruit: empty of volition? Empty of Kamma and hence empty of rebirth. (I will be the first to say that this logic works a lot easier for 'beer' than for the entity labeled 'me'. But there is no concrete dividing line between the two concepts - as for any two concepts - given that true Independence is not possible within conditionality, so the beer example should be a decent starting point!) 

His self. Once the self is given, it is realised that nothing is ever given nor taken. Giving or taking are just mere concepts ... illusions ... not truth. It is within this realisation of the truth that liberation is achieved. But again ... Achieving or not achieving are just mere concepts ... illusions ... not truth. It is within this realisation of the truth that liberation is achieved. 

If your goal is liberation from future deaths and births, right view would be: to know the origin of suffering, to know the cessation to suffering and to know how to completely cease suffering within you. By having this right view ignorance would be removed, suffering would cease and you would be liberated. 

This is what happens. When a person dies during coma or unconsciousness state, that person comes out of coma, becomes conscious. This is not similar to Nirvana. Nirvana is understanding the cessation of thoughts. Coma and unconsciousness are continuation of thoughts. Coma and unconsciousness do not lead to the understanding of the cessation of thoughts. The word "during" during coma or unconsciousness does not apply. It applies only to you who is consciouss. To the one who is in a coma or unconsciouss state, it does not apply. Thus, there is no "during" for the person in coma. There is only "now" and "now" for the person in coma. "Now" before coma and "now" after coma. "During" is only for you who is not in coma. What is between "now" and "now" for the one in the coma? Is there something? Or is there nothing? I guess you must find out. 

There is a handful of words, ink and pixels pointing us to the right direction. It is a two edged sword. 

I think if you are willing to do more, go ahead. But like physical exercises, you should improve the quality of the practice (i.e. focus and stillness), instead of just increasing the duration. 

There is a sowewhat long article in Wikipedia on this regard. But Buddhists don't see Buddha as God. Buddha is more like a saint, as there are may Buddhas. They attained enlightenment in a specific way, so they are considered as so. Monks attain enlightenment but they aren't Buddhas, besides they say everyone has the nature of Buddha in ourselves. Now God is something that is not very thought/talked/taught about in Buddhism. God isn't accepted or denied, but we rather don't conjecture about supernatural things or beings. We don't identify God as we can't perceive him or it, as we can perceive other people. But there are the deities is Buddhism as seen on the Six Domains of Samsara. They aren't supernatural begins, but a fleeting state of the life. For example, when people win the lottery, initially they are very happy and taking advantage of all the money they won. But this mental state doesn't last long, it goes away in one or two years, they cycle to other domains. Another example is when we buy some new smartphone or car, we are very happy and proud and full of energy (we feel as gods) in the first days or weeks, but all this excitation disappears (we migrate to other realms or domains). So being a god is feeling like one, but feelings change sooner or later.