The only studies to my knowledge that have any correlation between carbohydrates and Alzheimers are epidemiological. In short they use survey data to find areas of study where more controlled studies should be performed to see if there is a true cause and effect relationship. The problem is that many people assume that correlation is the same thing as causation, and the distinction is not made clear by the media. Dr. Wiel has some thoughts on the epidemiological study. In that, he highlights the fact that there are no studies that provide a direct link or causation between carbs and Alzheimers. 

With this approach I'm able to keep a consistent pace without any layoffs or general fatigue induced mental haziness. I also hadn't had to do any deloads since my last competition. What I've Found Doesn't Work The quickest way to push yourself into overtraining is: 

Each session you go up by 5lb (except deadlift where you increase by 10lb). I will say that it is quite challenging. Just from doing the weight training, I have to eat more just to get through the next session. In the mean time my neck, arms, chest, hips and thighs are getting bigger while my gut is getting smaller and the scale stays the same (+/- 5lb). I do top off the weight lifting with 20 minutes of cardio. I'm currently running 1 minute intervals on the treadmill. The combination puts me at 90 minutes each time I'm at the gym. I'm maintaining weight, but losing my gut which is what I really want anyway. I've found that my cardio work is much easier due to the lifting I've done. In your situation: I would recommend doing strength training Mon, Wed, Fri. In your off days (Tue, Thur) do cardio for 20 minutes of work and 5 minutes of cooldown. Start with a light jog/run interval of 1 minute each. If you have 2mph difference between the two intervals you'll be able to recover for the next run interval. Increase by 0.1 mph each time you do you cardio until you just can't get any faster. This limit should be more of how your legs are trying to keep up than your heart/lungs trying to keep up. Your initial workouts will be light enough that you won't have any problems. When the weights get tougher (probably around week 6 if you are like me), you might have to back off on the cardio. Your gut will continue to get smaller as you get stronger. 

When you can define what it is that needs improving, you won't need to ask what services you should request, because you'll already know. You'll also know if the coach is the right one or not. For example, if your diet is messed up, you would go to a nutritionist, not an Olympic lifting coach. 

Assuming you pay for new equipment you can get your home gym for about $2500 with a good bar, bumpers, power rack, weight racks, a bench, and chalk. I'd recommend starting out with a beater set while you are still testing the waters. Spending a couple grand on something that just takes up space is a bad investment. Even if you bought a basic set from Amazon you can get a 300lb set of barbell and iron plates for about $300 USD. If you stick with it, you will outgrow that set. By then you'll have a better idea of the type of equipment you really need. Above all: Use it! And have fun. 

Socks do provide a nice barrier that allows the shoe to rub the sock while the sock stays fairly motionless against the foot. An alternative is to tape your foot, or use gauze over the most affected areas of your foot. While both of these options prevent the natural formation of callouses they also prevent the primary cause of the blisters. 

Some people are afraid that stretching lengthens the muscles (which it does), and their goal is to look big. This is a short-sighted approach to lifting weights, even if aesthetics is your goal (i.e. bodybuilding). It's also a myth that seems to perpetuate in high-school gyms. Bottom line is you need the full range of motion to perform the lift properly and safely. Once you can perform the techniques correctly, you can push yourself harder to more than compensate for that little extra bulging that might come from tight muscles. There is yet one more therapeutic aspect to stretching after you lift: it helps blood flow through the muscles better to repair them. Foam rolling is a godsend for lifter's aching muscles. 

The question of low GI pre-training and high GI post-training has to do with manipulating the insulin response. The general idea is to remain in a fat burning state as long as possible, and then replenish the energy after training as quickly as possible. It's the same idea with protein manufacturers trying to give you the quickest absorbing protein--which isn't always what you want. 

Calories in vs. Calories out is the very first thing you need to truly keep track of. The primary reason for forcing you to do some homework is so that you can see just how close your calorie balance is. Do understand that the calculators are just to get you in the ballpark, and individual physiologies vary. You can only improve what you measure 

This lets you build some foundational strength that will be necessary for performing the big 4. It also lets you do something that isn't quite as technical to get started. Once you feel confident with that, I would recommend moving on to something like Wendler 5-3-1. Your stated goal is to at least maintain your muscle, and bring back some of what you lost--not try to get as strong as possible as quickly as possible. Wendler 5-3-1 only increases weight once a month, and keeps the weight manageable with weights you should be able to handle if you choose an easy starting point. It has the concept of AMRAP (As Many Reps As Possible) on the top set of the main exercise for the day, and that is AMRAP with good form. If your form starts to break down, stop the set. 

From your question it is not clear whether you have access to barbells (free weights) or not. If you do, or are willing to get some, I recommend reading this article: Intro to Strength Training which will help you get started. For beginners the two best programs to begin with are Starting Strength and StrongLifts 5x5. The article I linked to at the beginning has a few thoughts on choosing between them. Both programs have articles that demonstrate the lifts you would be doing. Mark Rippetoe (Starting Strength) even has a number of videos on YouTube to help demonstrate and teach good technique. If you purchase barbells brand new, you can get them as cheap as $300 USD for a barbell and and weights to get up to 300lb. You can also find them used on Craig's List or Ebay, so there are other low cost options to get you started. That will be more than enough to get you going, and by the time you are ready to buy a better barbell/weights you will be pretty strong and better know what you really need.