Preposition by definition means that it is a functional word put in front of another word (typically nominal in nature) that it modifies in some way. The wh- type words are pronominal (or more precisely shifter-like) in their nature, thus they need to stand for full sense words, e.g. nouns (what/who) or adverbs (where/when/how). Thus to have a wh- type preposition is sort of contradictory (to be honest, when I read the title, I thought you meant something like "WH-prep table did you put the plate?", i.e. asking in which position towards the table the plate was put - beneath it, on it, next to it,...). What you are referring to (Wh-on did you put the toy) would most likely not be analysed as preposition but just a simple contraction of two words/morphs that can exist apart but in this specific combination, they merge into a single unit. This obviously happens frequently with prepositions and pronouns, e.g. French du, des, ès for de le, de les, en les, Czech nač, proč, doň,... for na co, pro co, do něj,..., but the resulting unit is typically still just univerbised realisation of two otherwise separate words/morphs or it turns into an adverb by the process of grammaticalisation (the Czech case - proč meant originally what for and now it means why and most likely the case with the English adverbs as well, coming from some PIE kʷo- and spatial expression of location, direction, origin etc. like wh-ere, wh-ence, wh-ither,...). 

Not sure about how this would be viewed in English but you can find a certain discontinuity in European languages: I don't know what you think you are doing. Nevím, co si myslíš, že děláš. In Czech, word dělat (to do) comes with obligatory transitivity (unless in it means to work (in order to earn money)) and thus requires a direct object. In this sentence, the direct object would be co (what) but this is moved at the beginning of the first-order subordinate and merged with its own relative pronoun. 

A universal methodology can be used to put together vowels and consonants and indeed you will find this occasionally, mostly in phonetics though - e.g. IPA can be, in a way, considered one such methodology with totally closed occlusives through nasals, fricatives up to the approximants with highest degree of aperture at the very bottom. This is follow by a vowel chart typically placed beneath the consonants, again with the most closed vowels (following directly the approximants) at the top and the most open vowels at the bottom (it is rather ingenious, really). Another method is accoustic description (formants in vowels and approximants/liquids, noise formants in fricatives and formant loci in occlusives). The problem is there will be almost no overlaps between the two (except the /i/ and /j/, /u/ and /w/ and several other examples) in phonology because they are articulated in a wildly different manner and have wildly different position with the phonological system (e.g. with regards to combinatorics) due to their phonetic properties. Thus you will get just one large/wide table/tree instead of two smaller but equally descriptive. It is simply not useful to treat vowels and consonants in a single system. 

Language is built as a sturdy structure with many redundant and mutually supporting features because it is by its very nature abstract since it strives to use finite means to describe infinite variety and fluidness to the world. That being said - you have phrases: 

How did the Sanskrit gen./abl. singular of pitr-/pitā́ ("father") came to be pitur (and the genitive of the entire noun class as well, of course)? The evolution of all other forms (even pitā́, which seems to be a regular result of pitā́r < pitár-s) seems to be fairly transparent but this one has always eluded me... AFAIK, the source should be ph₂tr-és so I would expect it to yield something like pitr-ás. 

What you are aiming at is probably "reflexive" verbs, however most verbs that permit this are not really reflexive verbs. To get closer understanding, we need to look at certain verb classes in general: 1) Intransitive verbs These verbs do not require/permit an object and exist typically only alongside a subject. Examples are: to run, to walk, etc. (of course they can have object when they assume a different sense, e.g. to run a test, to walk a dog). 2) Transitive verbs These verbs typically require one or more objects (direct or indirect) and the term itself means that the action somehow ties or goes from one participant (subject) to the other (object). Examples are: to kill, to see etc. They permit various transformations like passivisation etc. Now we are getting somewhere in relation to you previous question: a) The verbs transitivity permits typically that the subject can be also the object of the verb at the same time, e.g. "to wash oneself", in which case the object is expressed by a personal or reflexive pronoun. In Romance languages, the reflexive pronoun exists only for 3rd person to distinguish reflexivity from another direct object, while in Slavic languages, the reflexive pronoun is used always if the subject and object are the same: French 

It has to do mostly with sound change. French underwent two principal sound changes that effectively prevented it from keeping the case system from Latin. 1) Elision of any post-accentual vowels: French, like other romance languages kept the accent on words on the same syllable as they were in Latin, however the nature of the accent in French changed somehow, probably from Latin pitch accent to something more dynamic (which might have been influence from the Germanic languages). Thus the stressed syllable was reinforced while any following vowels were elided. 2) Loss of final consonants: In line with development of other Romance languages, practically all syllable-final consonants disappeared (some actually remarkably late-hence French preserved the case system quite long). With Latin declension system being based mostly on one syllable suffixes, this proved deadly to any form of synthetic declension in nouns (not so in personal pronouns - cases are distinguished there still to a degree not dissimilar to English). The same thing happened to verbs, however since the verbs typically had their accent moving because of the 1st and 2nd person plural having two-syllable suffix where ante-penultimate was long (/'lau-do:/ vs /lau-'da:-mus/), the conjugation system did not disappear entirely but was restructured based on vowel-shifts and root consonant play in many verbs: 

Czech seems to be developing some sort of definite/indefinite articles with definite ones being evolved from demonstrative pronoun "ten" (this), while indefinite ones from the undetermined pronominal adjective "nějaký" (some), which has no connection to the numeral "one". Mind you this is far from fully grammaticalised form but even now the uses are very close to the typical one for artcicles (particularly the definite one seems to be on its path to becoming fairly obligatory). 

Slavic languages are full of this. The typical example of this is the genitive plural of female a-stems, which is a null morpheme. See Czech: 

All these changes occur in myriad other examples (sudor > sueur; opera > oeuvre, etc.) The rendition avugle may be just freak of transcription or it might be dialectal (in some dialects, even accented short o>u, which was typically reserved only for the unaccented one) and the grapheme might represent /u/ sound, not /y/. 

I would argue for the possible connection with word "baron" actually. The word "baron" itself comes from Old French, which at the time preserved still some forms of declension and "baron" was the accusative/object/indirect case, while nominative/subject/direct was "ber", which itself had Germanic/Frankish origin in baro ("freeman"). 

So here, the aspect is kind of expressed by the presence of the auxiliary (if not on the auxiliary, again the copula verb does not distinguish the aspect) - this can be seen with verbs that normally do not distinguish aspect (typically verbs of latin origin) 

There is all the difference in the world. Omitting Space: arbitrary orthographic convention designed essentially by linguists to encode a particular language in writing; while this is likely to be based on some language features, it is extra-linguistic in the end. Agglutination: way of deriving words from morphemes - it is based on the concept of word as the minimal lexical unit and the agglutinated morpheme having only one grammatical function. Morphemes that are agglutinated to a lexical root cannot stand by themselves and form one word with the lexical root (e.g. English urgent + ly is essentially an agglutination because -ly has one grammatical function, to convert an adjective to an adverb, and it cannot stand on its own, cannot be separated from the root by another full-fledged word etc.). It is true that agglutinative morphemes can behave in a way suggesting their original status as a word, e.g. in a multi-word phrase, they are added only to the last element: if we have very large dogs, an agglutinative language with such a feature will have very large dog-s or dog very large-s or dog large very-s (depending on its word order constraints) but the -s (plural mark) just cannot stand on its own (form a sentence) etc. I do not know any Turkish but note that your phrase as if you were one of those whom we could not make resemble the Czechoslovakian people contains actually very little few lexical elements: 1) Czechoslovak (this you cannot do away with). 2) people (this can be easily a grammatical morpheme, in Czech we also do not say English people or Spanish people but we have morphemes allowing us to express this in one word, like Englishmen or Spaniards). 3) resemble (this can be easily encoded by a grammatical morpheme similar to English -like as in doglike behaviour, catlike gait,...) 4) make (this is almost certainly a factitive derivation of which there is plethora in Turkish). The rest are clearly words with grammatical meaning, not lexical, hence it can all be agglutinated to the lexical basis and exist as a single word. But it is the decision of the powers that be to determine whether you write it all together without any separation, or whether you separate strong morphological units by, say, a dash or a dot, or whether you separate every single morpheme by a space. Compare the German and English attitude towards compound words: English: Old Church Slavonic German: Altkirchenslawisch 

This is a very interesting question for Czech, where we use reflexive pronouns in case of co-reference and there is a clear distinction of co-reference and multiple reference in the third person 

The rule is actually very logical and to someone whose language has inflexion, it is very, very natural. The past participle is basically a deverbal adjective relating to the object, thus it makes a lot of sense that there is an agreement in the nominal categories. E.g. in Czech, there is a similar construction being born (have st. + past participle) and the PPP agrees with the object in case (typically accusative), number and gender: mám tu knih-u přečte-n-ou I have the book-(ACC-SG-FEM) read-PPP-(ACC-SG-FEM) mám ty knih-y přečte-n-é I have the book-(ACC-PL-FEM) read-PPP-(ACC-PL-FEM) So in French, which also distinguishes grammatical number (in its own strange way) and gender, such a construction makes sense as well. This of course does not change the fact that this distinction disappeared due to the progressing grammaticalisation of the passé composé and was only artificially reintroduced.