The heliosphere is mainly defined by the region dominated by solar wind against the interstellar medium. "The solar wind is divided into two components, respectively termed the slow solar wind and the fast solar wind. The slow solar wind has a velocity of about 400 km/s, a temperature of $1.4–1.6×10^6 K$ and a composition that is a close match to the corona. By contrast, the fast solar wind has a typical velocity of 750 km/s, a temperature of $8×10^5 K$ and it nearly matches the composition of the Sun's photosphere." Hence with 1 million Kelvin we get a good estimate of the average temperature of the heliosphere. The temperature is the freeze-in temperature derived from carbon ion charge states measured by SOHO. Hence it's not the black-body temperature, but a reasonable definition of temperature for solar wind. "Coronal temperatures are inferred from density ratios of adjacent charge states. The freeze-in temperature derived from a given density ratio is the electron temperature that reproduces this ratio in a static situation. For the analyzed iron charge states we use the ionization and recombination rates of Arnaud and Raymond [1992]". More details about SOHO's temperature measurement here. If the heliosphere would be in the thermodynamic equilibrium, according to Planck's law or Wien's law, you would get the peak at about 3nm, in the soft x-ray range. But the equilibrium assumption probably doesn't hold. For the hot interstellar medium extreme ultraviolet radiation measurements have been tried (CHIPSat), some successful (EUVE). Hence, in an ideal environment we would measure the radiation intensity across the electromagnetic spectrum, look for the peak intensity, apply Wien's law, and retrieve the effective temperature, which would be identical to the black body temperature in an ideal world. The plasma of the heliosphere is very rare, therefore almost transparent. That's why we don't feel that heat of about 1 milion degrees. Microwaves play a minor role in that temparature range. A temperature profile of Sun's corona and heliosphere is shown e.g. on pages 42 and 47 of this survey. 

Helium is burnt in Sun's core, and it is heavier (specific weight) than hydrogen. Hence most of the helium stays in Sun's core. (More details) 

What about BSC5p for stars brighter than magnitude 6.5? The "alt_name" "is usually the Flamsteed and/or Bayer constellation-based name for the star". Here a list of more advanced catalogs. Here a list of some common star names for Hipparcos numbers. Probably not much different from your query result. On Wikipedia a probably more complete list of more or less wide-spread common star names. Those common names often are not unique, and not all common names are widely accepted. That's probably why they aren't provided in the star catalogs. The only way I could imagine to get a solution is to convert the Wikipedia table to a csv file, and to import it to a database table used as a relation from the various catalog names to the proper names. That will probably need quite a bit of manual work. None of the naming systems is complete, not even necessarily unique. Stars frequently turn out to be not one, but several stars, or no star at all. At some point it's easier to use 'scientifics'. 

There is an alternative interpretation: Massive stars burn their fuel much faster than tiny ones. Hence massive stars are short-lived in comparison to tiny stars. The lifetime of a star is proportional to about the inverse of the cube of its mass. The Sun's lifetime is about $10^{10}$ years, hence for stars with 10 solar masses the lifetime is about $10^7$ years, and for stars with 0.1 solar masses it's about $10^{13}$ years. But stars also loose mass, e.g. by stellar wind and coronal mass ejections. Heavy stars may loose mass (parts of their envelope) e.g. by pulsation or radiation pressure during their red giant or their Wolf-Rayet phases, before they explode as a supernova. 

Silicates are rather stable, and there are only small amounts of protons in the interplanetary space near a comet, hence only tiny amounts of hydroxyl or water can form within a short period of time by photochemical processes. Thus the hypotheses of the Thunderbolt Project can easily be discarded. The surface of comets and asteroids will be charged by ultraviolet light due to photoelectricity. This can lead to dust levitation. But electric charge cannot be accumulated arbitrarily. At some point the comet would desintegrate due to electrostatic repulsion. Even before that point charge is mostly neutralized by (electrons of) the surrounding interplanetary medium. Neutrinos are electrically neutral and don't have any known inner structure of possibly charged electric particles. Therefore no interaction with electromagnetic fields is to be expected. At high energies (more than 100 GeV) electromagnetism and weak force are thought to fuse to one electroweak interaction. You get neutrino reactions via $Z^0$ bosons at that energy level. These extreme conditions will be found in or near neutron stars, or near black holes. They will also be caused by collisions with high energy cosmic rays, and will have been prevailing early after the big bang. The electroweak energy region is accessible to large colliders. In-depth paper about the electroweak interaction. High-energy collisions take a tiny amount of space and time; therefore it's still unikely, that some lurching neutrino gets involved. With the exception of the very dense and hot very early universe. 

To get the list of the bibcodes choose "Other" / "Catalogue collection" from the menue bar. The screen should look like 

The space we observe behaves roughly like the surface of an expanding sphere, and we can only look along its surface. The interior of the sphere has existed in the past, the outside will exist in the future. The surface of a sphere is two-dimensional. Our space has one more dimension; it may be thought of being embedded in a 4-dimensional space (hyperspace), although this embedding hyperspace doesn't need to exist to describe our universe. Like the surface of an expanding sphere has finite area and no boundary, our three-dimensional space can be finite for a fixed time of expansion, with no boundary. The universe (the radius of the sphere, if you want) expands faster than the speed of light, therefore we cannot look completely around the universe to see our own past, but just to the point it started its expansion. The starting point (big bang) seems to be opaque. We see the afterglow of the big bang in any direction as cosmic microwave background. 

The sun is usually taken as the center of the galactic coordinate systems. Our solar system is well within the thin disk of our galaxy (population I stars). So taking the headline question literally, we see the thin disk as well as the surrounding thick disk in almost every direction, meaning any galactic latitude and longitude. The radius interval, where we find mostly stars of the thin or thick disk, varies with angles. Along the galactic plane the radius interval is across the galaxy (up to about 30 kilo parsecs, varying a bit with direction, because we are not in the center of the galaxy) for the thin disk, containing the sun as origin; perpendicular to the galactic plane it's about 1 kilo parsec to both directions for the thin disk, followed by a respective radius interval from 1 to 3 kilo parsecs for the thick disk, if I follow the Wikipedia articles referenced in the question. The region dominated by the thick disk is the farther away from us the closer we look along the galactic plane. There are certainly no sharp boundaries between the star populations. Actually the thick disk penetrates the thin disk, but it's much sparser populated. The Gaia project may give a much more detailed answer about the distribution of stars within our galaxy in the next 5 to 10 years. 

Orbits around Earth need to be within its Hill sphere. Earth's Hill sphere is the region where Earth's gravity field dominates over the gravity fields of Moon and Sun. For Earth the radius of the Hill sphere is about 1.5 million kilometers. But for long-term stability the satellite needs to be well within the Hill sphere, less than half the maximum radius. The escape velocity from Earth's surface is about 11.2 km per second. That's the velocity an objects needs at the surface of Earth, relative to a non-rotating coordinate system, to escape the gravity field of Earth, no atmospheric drag assumed. The escape velocity is dependent of the distance from Earth's center of gravity, the further away from Earth the slower the escape velocity. Its roughly proporional to the inverse of the square root of the distance from Earth's center, as long as points above Earth's surface are considered. 

Neutrinos wouldn't pass through white dwarfs or neutron stars as easily as through Earth, measured by the scattering rate per distance, since these types of stars are very dense: white dwarfs about one million times denser than water, neutron stars about as dense as atomic nuclei. To scatter a neutrino with a chance of > 50%, you "just" need the inner of a neutron star along 10 times the diameter of Earth's orbit around the sun: The neutrino-nucleon scattering cross section is about $10^{-38}cm^2=10^{-42}m^2$ for neutrinos with energies above about 1 GeV, according to this paper. A proton has a diameter of about $1.75\cdot 10^{-15}m$. With $$1.75\cdot 10^{-15}m/10^{-42}m^2=1.75 \cdot 10^{27}$$ we need about $1.75\cdot 10^{27}$ nucleons in a row to scatter a neutrino. That's about $$1.75\cdot 10^{27}\cdot 1.75\cdot 10^{-15}m=3\cdot 10^{12}m=20\mbox{ a.u.}$$ as a rough estimate. (For simplicity I've neglected the exponentially decreasing intensity of the neutrino beam in the scattering medium.) Neutrinos will probably scatter a little more easily in a neutron star than in the same number of single traversed neutrons, but that's a guess based on the scattering cross section for heavier nuclei. 

The answer to the headline question is clearly: No. The full moon has an apparent diameter of about 0.5°. Its apparent motion is roughly 360°/24h, neglecting the orbital motion of Earth and Moon. Hence it apparently moves about 24h*0.5°/360° = 0.033h = 2 min. Hence the moon moves one moon diameter in about 2 min. (The neglected orbital motion induces an error of about 3.65% (0.997d/27.3d), divide the siderial Earth day by a siderial moon orbit, hence an error of just a few seconds for the apparent motion of 0.5°.) In 35 minutes, Moon's apparent motion would be about 17 moon diameters. The geosynchronous satellite, in contrast, remains staying at the same apparent position, by definition. Planets or stars move apparently about the above error estimate different from the moon, hence roughly 27.3-times slower relative to the apparent moon than a geosynchronous satellite. 

Rainbows would lack most blue, and some green for red stars. For a blue star, the blue part of the rainbow would be more intense. For more complex colors, the rainbow may show some gaps. A rainbow is essentially a spectrum of that star light portion, which is visible to our eyes, and to which the atmosphere is transparent. Stars vary in brightness. A blue giant would be large and glaring, a red dwarf faint. Colors in the rainbow would be blurred, hence closer to white, for large stars, and sharper, more distinct, for small stars, according to the angular size of the respective light source. ... This all assumes, that there is still rain. With small, red stars, it would get too cold for rain. With large blue stars, Earth would heat up too much. To adjust for these effects, the distance to the star would need to be modified. And of course, the length of a year, and the orbital velocity may change. This could then cause different tides, changes in volcanism, etc. Exchanging the star could cause various other effects, too, other polar lights, effects to the ionosphere, the ozone layer, atmospheric erosion, more... 

The colorful patterns of gas are caused by excitation of gas atoms, e.g. oxygen, from radiation of a nearby star. You would see the same colors as from a distance, as the light is emitted in almost random directions. But you wouldn't see the same region of nebula shining at the same time as seen from Earth, when excitation is caused by a flash of radiation from a central star, because the radiation travels concentrical away from the star, and the distances the light has to travel from the excited part of the nebula to the observer is dependent of the location of the observer. Light may be scattered non-uniformly by dust-particles, so looking different from differnt positions, e.g. forming a halo around stars, depending of the composition and shape of the particles. The interplanetary dust in our solar system causes zodiacal light. Our solar system is in an interstellar dust cloud right now, but it's not very dense. Very dense clouds can form, but would become instable and collapse to a star or a protoplanetary disk, compare this site about dark nebula. 

Derived from this paper the interval between March equinoxes for 1989/1990 has been 4 minutes 28 seconds longer than the corresponding interval for 1987/1988. So the length of a year can vary several minutes, e.g. by gravitational effects of other planets. For calendars a mean year is used. Atomic clocks run far more precise than the more or less periodic motion of Earth. All planets aligned don't cause anything grave. A similar kind of sysygy has been 1982. 

Black holes distort the geometry of spacetime. So you need to take care about that. Changes of gravity propagate with the speed of light. That's thought to occur for accelerated mass, e.g. a binary of black holes. A second fundamental point: Speeds don't add up in an additive way, but in a subadditive way: speed of light + speed of light = speed of light. If you or the black hole travel with the speed of light, you resp. the black hole needs to be massless at rest, otherwise your relativistic mass, or that of the black hole would be infinite. Photons are massless at rest, so you're actually talking of light, or something which behaves rather similar to light in many aspects. So at the end you're talking of light directed to a black hole and reflected by a mirror inside the black hole. The light can get inside the black hole, but it cannot leave the hole after being reflected from the mirror due to the high curvature of spacetime below the event horizon. If you are travelling towards a binary of black holes, you get blue-shifted changes of gravity. 

It's mainly by the clear definition of the rings, and their mere existence. Without a moon the rings would be short-lived, hence unlikely to be detected just in time shortly after they've formed. And they would tend to wash out to broader rings. The space between the rings seems to be empty. That's easier to explain by one or more moons keeping the gap clean, and keeping the rings on their track (shepherd moons). A way of thinking of the shepherd moons: Our Earth's moon slows down Earth's rotation by tidal forces and friction. Think of a ring a little inside the orbit of a small moon as an analogon of Earth inside the orbit of Moon: It's slowed down by tidal forces and friction (non-elastic collisions between ring particles). Slowing down ring particles results in an orbit closer to the planet/asteroid. This way a small moon can act repulsive to a nearby ring, confining it. More details about the dynamics of planetary rings, including confinement by shepherd moons, see this paper, p. 491 ff. 

The search for extraterrestrial life is usually covered by "exobiology". But astronomy can provide clues of whether a planet or an exoplanet provides some of the conditions, which allow life or indicate life. The habitable zone - in its various versions - defines, in which distance from a star a planet needs to be to allow for e.g. liquid surface water, a condition regarded as necessary for most life-forms we know from Earth. With the discovery of extremophiles the habitable zone for that kind of life has been extended. Astronomy can provide information about the central star and the distance of a planet from the central star. From these data a decision is possible, whether the planet fulfills the surface temperature condition for habitability. Astronomy can provide information about the stability of a star, necessary for life to evolve on its planet. Astronomy can - in principle - provide information about the chemical composition of a potential atmosphere of a planet. Oxygen and methane at the same time would be regarded as an indicator of possible life on the planet. Astronomy can determine size and density information about the planet. That way it can be decided, whether it's a rocky planet or a gas planet, and infer the gravitational acceleration at the surface. The gravitational acceleration is relevant, e.g. for constraints of the atmospheric composition, or for possible properties of life, if extant. 

Spectral lines occur at defined wavelengths. By their redshift you can calculate the radial velocity (or gravitational redshift) of the star, or the absorbing medium, and hence the amount you've to shift the black body radiation to obtain the surface temperature (and the radial velocity of a possibly absorbing medium between the star and Earth). Schematic example: Assume, you measure the following two stellar spectra, and you're able to identify the typical H-alpha spectral emission line. This line should be at 565.3 nm: