In view of your edit I feel it's important to make a particular suggestion. Get counseling aimed at learning the importance of social interaction. This would be of immense benefit to you, not simply in work, but outside. 

These are both sensible reasons not to change anything. Don't forget that developing a elegant solution that solves minor problems is not going to be seen as a useful idea unless it solves practical problems that really impact overall efficiency. So the takeaway from this is that you may need to accept that the boss made a perfectly reasonable decision based on priorities you need to learn to include in your thinking. 

It's a way of showing you are part of a group. Not doing it has the opposite effect. Whether you like it or not you are part of group. There are group norms, and it will be seen as anti-social to not try. Failing isn;t as bad as not trying. Practice will also make you better at it, particularly with counseling guiding you. 

Call an anonymous police tips line. I don't know where you are, but in my country there is a completely anonymous phone number (free) which you can ring to report criminal matters or tips. I would suggest (strongly) that you check if that's possible where you are and ring them if you can. It may take some time to work out the right phrasing or what you're prepared to say, but it's simply a matter of doing something : you have every reason to think someone is being scammed out of a great deal of money (the equivalent of perhaps a years salary !) and you should do what you can to help stop this, IMO. Your should give them, at least, enough information to identify the woman who is being scammed. This needs to be stopped. If necessary report the matter openly. While it may seem a lot to maybe get fired or at least disciplined for doing this, it's a question for your own sense of morality whether you think you have a duty to report this to the authorities (and the lady) rather than cover yourself. There's an old saying for this situation : No good deed goes unpunished. I'm afraid you may have to view this as a risk you're going to have to take. 

I have a number of things to say so I'm going to attempt to make this as brief as possible, but this is a complex topic so I apologize if this gets lengthy. Before I begin: It is extremely unlikely that employers are "discriminating" by indicating that they want good written and verbal communication skills. While there may be some people out there doing that, it's honestly pretty ridiculous to imply that it's discrimination and I'll explain why in a moment. Ok, so let's break this down a bit and look at a few factors I think you're overlooking: 1) Being a native speaker or fluent in a language has almost nothing to do with being able to communicate effectively. I know plenty of incredibly intelligent, native English-speaking people who can't clearly and concisely convey an idea to someone with a lower-level understanding. Which brings me to my next point... 2) Just because a job isn't a sales/customer-facing position doesn't mean the ability to communicate is less important. There are multiple facets of communication and being able to speak to strangers and empathize with people (sales) has basically nothing to do with being able to convey ideas and concepts effectively. One of the most critical aspects of a software development position is the ability to work with team members, analysts and customers to identify and resolve issues. If you can't explain technical information or relate concerns effectively then you're going to waste valuable time re-discussing or even worse re-developing things because there was a lack of communication. 3) Frankly, I think IT is one of the most diverse fields you could discuss and that out of all the possible things you could complain about discrimination shouldn't be very high on the list. I've worked with people of all genders and nationalities, both in person and through online collaboration. If anything the stereotypical Asian/Indian engineer you often see in media/advertising is an indication that discrimination isn't a major issue. 

Unfortunately not everyone makes allowances. You were unable to learn skills they take for granted (but also had to learn when they were younger). You may or may not accept this, but you can become an expert at this. It's a matter of willpower and openness to the ideas. 

As I mentioned above your colleagues "offshore" (from your narrow viewpoint !) are probably equally frustrated by comms from your locale. Your use of the term "offshore" does seem to indicate a failure to appreciate that they're a perfectly legitimate part of a global business and you need to accommodate them, not just the other way around. 

Prioritize Which is more important, the interview or the Ph.D defense ? I'd suggest securing the Ph.D ought to be your sole priority. Why would you take any chance of messing that up ? However, you may have your own reasons for preferring to chase the job, and if you have such a preference then you need to at least ask the company for a date after the Ph.D defense. I'd point out that even if you do the interview you have no assurance you'll get anything from it. How much risk is there associated with doing the interview at a difficult time and how much risk to your Ph.D status ? Worse case scenarios : They say no and you decide to skip the interview. There will be other positions. Don't lock yourself into the mental straight-jacket of feeling you have no option but this position. The alternative worst case is that you really put yourself under insane pressure, try and do both and screw both up. 

As for your experience with interviewing: I think that you're attempting to rationalize to yourself why you weren't selected, and if I had to guess I'd say it's because you're either overestimating the relative strength of your qualifications or your resume isn't doing a good job of highlighting why you're a strong candidate for the positions. As another poster said: you're not being passed over for having a foreign sounding name in a field where a TON of companies are outsourcing IT services overseas and everywhere you look in the online community are developers of all races and nationalities. That's what I meant when I said it was a little ridiculous to imply, because I don't think you could pick another field that's as diverse or forward-thinking. I would suggest that you try to keep an open mind about things and not be too quick to dismiss the importance of them. IT is a good field to be in, but just like a college education... it's not a magic bullet. There has been tremendous job growth over the past 20 years, but there has also been an explosion of people getting educated in the field. Some people seem to think you can't look without bumping into countless opportunities, but that just isn't realistic. 

Time zone overlap again. When you send an email or IM, they're simply not available for quite natural reasons. When they can reply they will either figure it's pointless replying late or they do reply and you're complaining it's late, but from their point of view they replied ASAP. 

Well, I'd reconsider those choices. I appreciate and respect that you may not want to be on these drugs long term, (I didn't), but in the short term it's part of a necessary treatment to stabilize you and get you functioning better. Therapy may help. It's not a guaranteed cure, but you need to give it a try. Maybe this won't be the right time for it, but keep an open mind. 

This is a very bad notion that I need to address. You cannot do work, paid or free, for another person without your existing employer's permission (unless you have a very unusual contract). And supplying internal documents from your current employers to anyone for money would be grounds for instant dismissal and possibly even accusations of industrial espionage. Giving it for free would almost certainly get you fired as well, for a breach of NDA. Under no circumstances let the idea that being paid creep into your mind as making this reasonable. If there was any discussion of your former manager paying you for this information it is extremely serious and you must tell this to your current employers. Once again, you do not know the full story on why this guy left but you know it was on bad terms. Protect yourself. 

Unless there is a VERY good reason why you can't make it earlier (something such as having children you are responsible for dropping off at certain times) then I think it's an extremely bad idea to ask to reschedule. Particularly since it's only an hour earlier than your normal start time, are you really saying that you can't go to bed and get up one hour earlier for an interview? Frankly, if I was the interviewer in that situation your resume would immediately go in the "pass" pile even if you were otherwise a stellar candidate, because someone with rigid and unflexible schedules/routines are far more difficult to work with. Without knowing more about your situation (why the time is a big deal) it's hard to give advice, but I'd strongly suggest you sit down and evaluate why a start time prior to 9:30 is a big deal... because it really shouldn't be. I'm a night owl myself, I'd much rather be up until 2-3am and sleep until 10~ than be up early. Yet I still drag myself out of bed at 5:30 every morning for work even on days I stay up too late and don't get "enough" sleep, because that's the schedule I work and I value being a good (and reliable) employee more than my "preferred" sleep schedule. Also, getting off earlier in the day is super convenient... 

I liked the answer by @kilisi - simple and to the point. However I'd go further. You should report this contact and request by your former manager to your new employers. The fact that he left on bad terms simply underlines how serious this could be. You may not know the back story and their may be more to this than just your contact. This is either your manager planning to use your work to his benefit (misrepresenting them as your work) or seeking confidential material for his new employers (how serious this is depends somewhat on specifically what he asked for). I would advise making an email to the head of HR where you are now explaining what happened. Advise them that you find the request inappropriate and while you want to either ignore it or turn it down, you feel they ought to know and that you would appreciate formal advice on whether to respond with a rejection or simply ignore the request. You need to protect yourself from any possible repercussions of what this guy does. He may be contacting other people as well. It is then up to your employer to decide how they want to handle the matter. They may want to complain to the other company. They (more likely) will do nothing. But you are protected. 

I agree with the other posters, an NDA is meant to protect the companies involved from having sensitive information/data/etc leaked to outside parties. If you are applying for a position AT the company the NDA was with then I see no reason you shouldn't be able to mention that. However, if you're concerned then instead of contacting a lawyer I would recommend contacting the HR department of the company you're looking to apply to and ask about it. Tell them you have a question regarding their NDA agreements and whether it would be appropriate to mention a prior work relationship with the company covered by an NDA in your cover letter. That way you have a definitive answer from the company, and you don't have to give them your name or info in order to do so. That way if they say "absolutely not" you just don't mention it and they will never know your app was the one inquiring about it. 

The point I'm driving at here is you still need to differentiate yourself from other candidates, and the number one thing for many companies is your ability to communicate. I'm currently a software developer, but I spent a decade working in sales/management and if I were hiring today I would MUCH rather an average programmer with excellent communication skills and a good attitude than a "rockstar" programmer with middling communication and a bad attitude. 

Translations : they would not send as many staff if they had to pay staff to go. It would eat into profits. And to blazes with the students, is also implied. 

An interesting statement as it implies it's outside the terms of your contract. If it was in your terms of employment, then they could make it mandatory. So your contract is your friend here. 

First note that this is your opinion but it is your boss who has the right to make the decision. Your boss can over-rule you and I'd suggest getting used to that. Your opinion, in this case, would almost certainly not be a good enough reason to refuse a direct order to contact "Bob". Also remember that your boss may regard it as critical for reasons you are not privvy to, and may be thinking of a larger business context than you are. Can you be forced to do it ? No. Can you be fired for refusing an order to do it ? Possibly. Can you be disciplined without being fired if you refuse the order ? Almost certainly. Is it legal to ring "Bob" on vacation. Yes. Unless "Bob" has a court order preventing someone specific or a specific organization from ringing him, he's fair game for anything short of abusive and/or harassing calls. Could it violate "Bob"'s contract of employment ? Maybe, but that's a matter of a contract dispute between "Bob"'s employer and him. It's not an issue for you in any way if you are acting under a reasonable order (which it would be). So ring "Bob", say "Sorry, I was ordered to ask you this." and get on with it. 

As others have said: honesty is the best option in this situation, you don't want to have it seem like you're covering something up or hiding something. Just explain what you did (and why) and then ask how you should have handled the situation differently in the future. The other reason I'm adding this answer is this: when there is a situation in a work environment where you have something (or have access to something) that you aren't supposed to... NEVER delete, alter or otherwise touch anything. The very first thing you need to do is contact your supervisor and/or security manager and inform them that you have "spillage" and that they need to investigate/resolve the situation. It is extremely important that you take no action so that they have the ability to assess the situation as you found it. Your mistake here wasn't your intention, it was the fact that you acted without instruction in a potential security breach. Information security is one of the single most important areas these days, and while I'm not trying to make you nervous you should understand that companies take that stuff extremely seriously. 

Just to point out to you that many people confuse not being sentenced to a punishment (after e.g. an apology to the alleged victim) with the charges being dropped. You need to be clear with yourself whether you were actually found guilty or not guilty or whether the charges were dismissed. These are different things and may affect whether you could get an injunction as I suggest. In apologizing you may in fact have been admitting guilt, which is why I mention this. 

This is a very cynical type of behavior and I'd advise you to check if there is something like an employment tribunal in Solvakia which may be able to assist you in addressing this. I would, however, suggest you consider if you want to continue working for someone who is clearly at best an arrogant bully, and at worse a fraud. Personally I'd simply immediately start looking for another job. There is also a legal issue about employers taking actions which effectively force employees to leave - constructive dismal is the term, if I recall. This may become relevant, although I can't speak to Slovak law on this point. Refusing to pay employees, and even the threat not to, could well be considered an attempt to force people out. Regarding the issue of his waiting until after it was late to complain, should this matter become a formal legal case (and I'd encourage you to avoid that - it's typically costly and stressful), there is a legal principle called condonation which can be useful to know of (although it may not be directly relevant here). It's worth learning some of these basic legal principles. I'd suggest you take the "opportunity" this represents to learn the basics of employment law in Slovakia (just an overview, not detail). It will be useful in the future. Once you have a rough idea of where you stand legally you can consider how to address this. I'm not in your country, but for what it's worth I'd simply start looking for a job immediately and when I have one, give notice. If my salary has not been paid in relation to this kind of matter at that time I would write formally seeking the money (registered mail, email and keep a copy) stating my position and roughly what I considered the employer's obligations under contract and employment law were. It's typically not worth employing a lawyer for these issues as costs quickly escalate and we're probably not talking about enough money to make it practical. My limited personal experience with court cases is that people will go to the wire, get to court and be asked to find a settlement by the judge and it's at that point they settle. Usually by that point only the lawyers make any money from it and everyone else has lost. This is another reason why I'd suggest taking the opportunity to learn the basics of how courts and contracts work in your country - it's a good investment and, in my experience, good employers (and you'll get one) will respond well at interviews to people from technical disciplines who can discuss these matters at a basic level.