In the Western tradition the only super-natural awareness that is treated sympathetically is that of revelation as in the revealed religions as in the prophetic tradition of Judaism, Christianity & Islam, and also Brahman in Hinduism and of non-duality in Buddhism. However, these are definitely not ESP as commonly or popurlarly understood. 

Rilke, the German poet, whilst staying at Duino castle near Trieste on the Adriatic sea heard the first words of what he later called the Duino Elegies whilst walking on the cliffs . They are both lament & lyric. The first begins: 

In Christian & Islamic Theology, one could argue that there can't be Creation Ex Nihilo since 'before' Creation there was God. In Philosophical Naturalism (which is not Physicalism - it subsumes it), one could have an eternally existing universe, as per Hoyles (now neglected) steady-state universe; in the Big Bang theory, one could argue that whatever physical laws hold in time there must be laws that hold outside of time that condition the creation of the universe; laws are of course not nothing. In Buddhism, it appears that the universe is eternal (though cyclical). In all three, Nothing, does not obtain at any time. One is reminded here of Parmenides - non-being is not. This points towards a supposition: Creation Ex Nihilo is impossible in the strict sense; when I say strict I mean Nothing should be taken in Parmenides sense, and not say Hegel, where it means pure indeterminiteness. Am I justified in holding to this - or are there good counter-arguments? 

I haven't come across the term meta physics, perhaps you should provide a link? Unless, you of course you mean metaphysics? I'd differentiate between the two because multi-verse theories or string theories or the like are highly speculative, but also very mathematically and physically based. This is very different from the tradition of metaphysics proper. Speculative physics, is not a standard term either, but from what your quote this is I think what you mean by meta physics. It has a grand tradition going back to the early cosmological speculations of the pre-Socratics at least in the Western tradition - a school that is sometimes called the Milesian materialists. Philosophers such as Thales, Parmenides, Zeno & Democritus amongst others tackled problems that originated in the physical world; (and there is a direct link between the physics of antiquity & the origins of modern physics - for example, Newton had a copy of Lucretious De Rerum Natura, a polemical poem by a Roman poet on atomism. One suspects this directly influenced Newton championing of a corpuscular theory of light, and his use of point particles in modelling motion & gravity). This should be distinguished from Physics proper, from Galileo onwards when the notion of an experimentally based physics began to gain ground. This innovation was partly driven by technological progress - that is instruments began to be precise & regular enough to make an experimentally based physics possible. This experimental approach resulted in an explosive advance in physical knowledge until say the mid to late 20 Century, when the energies and distances probed were too high & too small for a direct experimental approach to be feasible. For example the Higgs Boson was predicted over 50 years ago, it is only now that probing at the energy level required is feasible. This means that research at a fundamental level is driven by a combination of physical intuition and (mathematical) aesthetic considerations. For example, the move from a point particle to a particle with some extension (string theory); the move from a homgenous and continuous background space to a space that is also atomic (Spin networks, Spin foam, causal sets, entropic gravity). It was two millenia before the early physical theories could be tested directly; one could suppose with the energies required to probe the Plank length a similar time-scale may be required. In which case it would make good sense to have a term distinguishing between experimental & philosophical/speculative/metaphysical physics. 

There is a complex relationship between language and the objective world. Take for example colour, and in particular red. There are a number of synonyms except of course they are not exact synonyms. For example crimson which is deeper, and scarlet which is brighter. But look at all the reds you see everyday - it is easy to see that there are an immense number of shades none of which have a specific colour name. In that a person has a worldview and that worldview has to be articulated in words and is inherited and elaborated in words then language is the image of what can be thought and communicated. Words are not simple. They change meaning either in combination as in compounds such as a blackboard which is not simply a board that is black; or in themselves - gay is not what gay meant a century ago. What came first - the thought or the idea? The word atom was appropriated by the milesian materialists to formulate an idea of the physical world not directly accessible to their senses; and in fact not directly sensible till recently. Here the idea of a world appeared first and was hammered out in words. Politicians & rhetoricians use the magic of words to hammer a consensus, a worldview that is exponentially magnified in a world of media saturation. After reading the article about the Piraha, it seems plausible that they have no need for elaborate counting techniques; nor for elaborate arithmetic. (One could make a case that it was with the invention of cities and trade that these exigencies were forced). The case is made stronger when one reads that when the children were taught they picked it up reasonably well but then decided against it - that is they were bored and ran off. This fits in with my personal experience of how most people find actual mathematics boring as children and as adults. Two additional and perhaps interesting points: There is a mathematical philosophy called ultrafinitist that disputes the reality of very large numbers; perhaps one could call the Pirahas view of numbers ultra-ultra-finitist. Secondly in advanced mathematics the most common numbers used are: zero, one, two and infinite - aka 0,1,2 and lots. We haven't even got to three. 

Its a great question; I hadn't come across this particular one before by Democritus; I had understood that the documentary evidence for his thinking is thin. It appears part of a whole host of questions about analysing and understanding the behaviour of the very small, along the lines of Zeno. Democritus is an atomist; and against infinite divisiblity; so for him an atom has a minimal definite width; thus the two 'lateral sides' of the cone should be of different sizes; one could say one is measuring by an 'atomised' real line. There is a 'logical' correspondence of this notion using the non-standard real line; so that the bottom half is wider by an infinitesimal on each edge. The usual answer, by using the standard real line, is that the two sizes are exactly the same. 

Whatever x is; it must be equal to itself. Is this always true? Can there be situations when it doesn't hold? In Jowetts introduction to Platos Theatatus he writes that 

There are different flavours of humanism; for example Tagorean humanism, is more aligned with a religious sensibility, in the sense of say, Emersonian Transcendentalism or the Perennialism of Nasr. The Secular humanist tradition - a European development - was argued to lead to moral relativism; and a riposte to this thesis was composed by Sartre in his Letter on Humanism. The question here is why such a development lead to such a thesis? Classically, both in philosophy though Plato, and in Christian Theology; and as affirmed by Wittgenstein: 

The transcendental, seems here to be that beyond the universe, and having no connection with it; whereas making the world immanent in a neccessary substance, as Spinoza did, appears to be here Deluzes reason to regard his theory anti-transcendetal. But, this seems to me to injure Spinozas thought in a sense, and also that much maligned word transcendetal; if only two of the infinitely many modes of the neccessary substance is cognisant to us - thought & extension; it appears then that infinitely many must be uncognisable by us in any way - if we could they would return to thought or to extension. Of course, here, one should not understand infinite in a mathematical way - as this makes the infinite cognisible, and again returning it to thought, at least in some sense. 

This isn't an answer - more a suggestion as to how it might begin to be resolved. The question of the compatibility of free-will & determinism as it is debated in contemporary philosophy is not how it it would be seen in Early Antiquity, but Bobiez argues that it does become a question in Late Antiquity I'd suggest, that this compatibility question becomes acute when considered in materialist philosophy - like that of Epicurus & Democritus, or contemporary Physicalism; where freedom has to be manufactured out of matter & void. According to the Stoic Philosophy: 

Hence, Newton distinguishes three forms of time - absolute, true and mathematical - and then identifies them. Whereas for Aristotle, time was an aspect of change, and of which one aspect is physical motion; Newton reverses this conception, in a sense. Thus, Newtonian time flows everywhere in space at the same rate; so for a man positioned somewhere in space he can 'see' in a sense (as in McTaggarts 'tensed' time) the future coming forward becoming the present and then going behind to the past; or in Heracleitian imagery time is like a river. But it's the relative motion here that counts. So, one might equally say that time rather than flowing like a river, stands still, like a lake it's surface is unruffled; until one puts a particle on it, which then moves ahead of its own volition. This in fact is the usual way that one describes the classical trajectory of a cannonball in a space and time diagram; an exercise that one might do at school, say on graphed paper with the horizontal axis for time and the vertical one for displacement. So, here - time does not flow; the cannon-ball moves in time. The difference between the two pictures, Newtons original conception and the standard one taught is not usually remarked on. Philosophically, or ontologically, though, is there a difference between saying that time flows or not? Even when the physical picture, the expressed by calculations in Newtonian Physics, give the same result? 

Fallibilism can be applied to two concepts of science - it's predictions and it's representations. It is a prediction that if I let go of the book in my hand that it will fall towards the floor; this is truth in lower-case; and unproblematic in terms of fallibilsm. It is a representation that this is by the 'force of gravity' or by the 'curvature of spacetime'' or by 'entropic gravity' - this is truth in Capital Letters; and here fallibilsm is more problematic; by what consideration can we say that this representation is reality as it is? An illustration may make this clear: a video shot of the book falling to the floor is a faithful representation of this event; but no-one would mistake this film for reality. So to be precise, fallibilsm operates on the order of a representational rather than ontological commitment. 

This strikes me a little excessive in placing a clear gap between the theoretical posits of yester-years, even if they were a millenia ago, and of today. A string in string theory is after all, if you follow the history inspired by a string or a rope that anyone can pick up, the same equation describing its ideal form is used. This then, is not far removed from the 'ordinary experience' he mentions earlier. And then of course, one might suggest that that the longer the mind attends to such a concept the further removed it becomes from the everyday. After all, a fire-atom may have been inspired by a spark from a fire; but already, here an atom of fire is very different from a spark? Doe it go out, or does it give steady light and heat? Aren't all atoms of fire alike, whereas some sparks are brighter, and others dimmer? I also have the impression, though I can't be precise, that there subtle distinctions in how these atoms are concieved that would remove them further from the everyday than Westerhoff is making out. Is it correct to say then, that the strings of string theory are as wholly removed from our experience as Westerhoff is making out? Which is not to deny a difference of degree, nor of quality. NB Its probably worth pointing out, for what its worth, that the title of the question is playing with the title of a collage by RB Kitaj.