@Mike's answer is very helpful, but I'd add that there are lots of good wheel sets (prebuilt) out there and a lot of them are great for different purposes. You should factor into your decision the type of riding you do and how a new wheel set my aid you. If you do a lot of climbing, I'd say look for weight savings. Deep profile rims won't do you much good. Low profile alloy rims will certainly be a better option If you have mostly flatland and you ride fast, you'll maybe want something more deep profile to aid with aero advantage. If there is a lot of crosswind this can be a factor as well. Deep profile rims and crosswinds can be tricky with handling. Do you race? tour? ride for fun? alloy vs. carbon is also a decision. Carbon is certainly fancier and will impress your friends more, but there are plenty of great alloy wheel sets. You can always go the custom built route and this can get you a great wheel set for a lot less than the popular brand names with comparable or better quality. It's important that you find a builder that you trust and discuss your style of riding with them so they can steer you in the right direction. They will factor in style, rider weight, budget, etc into their recommendations...or at least a good builder will. 

The only issue I see might be the fairing on the top of your window. A lot of trunk mount racks are hindered by this because you can't really tighten down the straps enough to properly secure the rack. if you can go UNDER the fairing and attach to the edge, that would be advisable. A hitch mount rack might be better suited for your vehicle. 

Replace the wheels with a set that comes with a 10 speed freehub, since replacing the hub alone would probably be close to the price a new wheelset if you consider the fitting cost and I wouldn't do it myself. Get a spacer and fit my CS-HG41 onto it. I'm perfectly fine with having 7 gears at the back and this would give me an opportunity for a further upgrade in the future should I ever needed it. It also seems the least fuss option. Replace the existing triple chainset with a double 34-50T compact or 36-52T semi-compact crankset (e.g. Shimano FC-A070 or maybe even FC-2300 both matching the existing chain and bottom bracket) The frame seems to have enough clearance for such upgrade but I guess I would have to replace the front shifter and possibly (?) the front derailleur too. 

The descriptions for spoke nipples focus on the spoke diameter (or gauge) compatibility as well as the overall length of the nipple but not really anything about the round part between the head and the square part which sits in the hole of a rim. 

Don't use poison. It will likely not work. Would you be able to remove a dead spider from your bike anyway? How would you know it was dead? Poison is bad for other insects and animals in general. It's bad for you. I believe it's against the spirit of biking too. I don't think a bike cover will work for you. You will give spiders another place to hide. Even if it's very well sealed I can't see any reason why spiders wouldn't want to wander around your cover just as they wander around your bike. Unless it wraps around your bike tightly it will likely have creases that again will create perfect places for spiders to hide. What you can do: 

You won't need new wheels, but you'll need a new cassette in back. Also, I'm assuming that you've updated your shifters and rear derailleur from 9 to 10 speed? The minimum you will need to switch out going from 9 to 10 speed is the rear shifter, rear derailleur and cassete. As far as swapping out the triple to a double you don't need a new front derailleur, but you will need to readjust it by bringing in the limit to accommodate the change from 3 rings to 2 so your chain doesn't drop inside when shifting down to the inner ring. You don't absolutely need to swap out the front shifter, but adjustments are a little more tricky as you currently have 3 clicks instead of the 2 needed. You can either limit the clicks to two or just use 2 clicks for shifting down. Be sure to check the outside limit as well. Once the limits are adjusted you'll just need to readjust your front shifting. There are plenty of instructions here and videos online that spell this out completely. You might also need to adjust the length of your chain, so be sure to check that. 

According to BikePedia, these did not come stock on the Bianchi Eros in either 1996 or 1997. Since this bike came stock with Mirage level components, you're probably looking at a low - mid level quality OEM rim. Fir is/was a good brand, as is Ambrosio (which came stock on this bike). Finding a rim from Velocity or Alex Rims or Mavic just to name a few common manufacturers will provide you with a quality alternative that is affordable and readily available today. To match the style, you are going to want to get a low profile or "box" style rim as opposed to a deep profile or "aero" rim. All of these companies and more have a style of rim like this. You will definitely need to purchase new spokes and nipples for this, so make sure you know how to purchase the proper size. 

I find the gears are too low for my needs. I don't use the smallest chainwheel and I don't use the biggest sprocket either. I thought I could quickly solve the problem low-cost by upgrading to CS-HG41 11-28T cassette but once I got round to removing the block it turned out that the "cassette" on the bike was in fact a freewheel. Bugger! Apparently Shimano used to make FW726 11-28T freewheel but they are nowhere to be found. How to solve this pickle? I'm thinking my options are: 

Below you can see it carrying a Kryptonite Modulus lock on my bike but you can obviously attach a bottle cage or whatever and wherever you like. I did 100s of miles with it without any issue. I'm not sure if the mounts came with rubber strips as you can see on the picture. I may have used some spare ones from cycle light mounts for extra grip and protection. You could cut out such strips from an old tube. 

My bike is my main means of transport and I have never encounter a spider on it. Perhaps because I never look for them. So as soon as you approach your bike just jump on it and ride ;-) 

Do the nipples come with a standard body diameter for a particular gauge or is it possible to find slimmer or fatter bodies? 

What replacement wheels/rims that can be fitted into bike are available these days? Below I focus my requirements on the rims as they are probably easier to come by than complete wheels but if there are new wheels available then I'd love to know the vendor/manufacturer. Ideally I would like not to modify anything and stick with size with taking tyres if such option exists at all. The next acceptable option would be same size with which would require replacing the hubs (which I hope can be obtained more easily). Yet another possibility is any other wheel size that would fit the bike without modifications (with the exception of the hubs). The least acceptable option would be a solution requiring mudguards removal, front fork replacement, brakes change etc. However, out of curiosity I would be happy to see what more drastic routes can be followed. 

They don't start slow because they are on a fixed gear (track) bike. They start slow because they are trying to coax the other rider into starting the sprint for the finish line before they do. The advantage is typically given to the rider behind the other because you have not only the element of surprise, but you also get a draft off the person in front. These riders walk the line of not starting their sprint too early and thusly fading at the end...and allowing the other rider to get the jump on them and losing the advantage of getting in their draft. 

To answer your question, no. The leather/lorica/covering has no bearing on the shape of the saddle. They make a lot of versions of each design specifically for bike manufacturers with custom designed coverings in addition to their standard covering design. They make quite a few saddles with grooves, without grooves, with and without cutouts. It's not entirely clear which model this is from your image or description as they do not have an "SL" model on their current product listing. They do have an "SLR" line and the shape appears to be of the "SLR monolink" variety which has both a non groove and groove model within it. As stated above in the comments, it's best to go to your local shop and ask that if they do not have the item in stock, that they order one for you. Most will oblige because they can send items back if they are in unused condition. Some will ask for a deposit as a "holding" fee to ensure that you don't ask them to order a bunch of stuff and never come back. 

Is your front chainring on the outside or inside of the spider? Is it a converted 1x9 or did you purchase it as a 1x9? It's most likely happening when you hit large bumps or holes in the road. It's possible that your chain is too long if you converted it from a 2x9 and didn't reduce the number of links in the chain. If you converted it, it's also possible that the chainring is just too far away from your center line for a proper chainline when you're on your largest cog. If possible, move your chainring to the inner side of the spider. If you have a single ring crank, you may need to get a shorter BB/spindle. Another cheaper and easier solution is to get a chain watcher. There are several types and brands such as N-stop, K-edge, Paul Components. This will sit on the inside and/or over the top of your chain on the front chainring which will help prevent the chain from jumping off the front ring. They are used widely in the cyclocross world to prevent this.