Who ran these experiments, and in which journal was the article published in? Who has examined this critically from a philosophical point of view? For example the Bergsonian perspective alluded to above. 

This field originated with Robert Merton who looked at the sociology of scientists, that is not the discovery & evolution of new scientific ideas, but how scientists as a social group or force operated. A British school grew in opposition to this, which looked at the sociology of ideas themselves. This field in turn is critiqued by another emergent field Science, Technology & Society for sociological reductionism, and a human-centred universe. They 

Essentially he was saying that the punishing reparations imposed on Germany allowed for the conditions within which Hitler could rise. Had Germanys situation and position not been misunderstood after the end of the First World War this may never have happened. 

And of course this contingency is reflected in certain forms of traditional calligraphy, where aspects of organic transience is emphasised (a form that only found expression in Western art in the action paintings of Pollack - but his scale was very different). But would you not say, that after Nietszche broke the link with the infinite ground of God, that neccessity must also give way? 

I would suggest that the ground to have an ethics is consciousness; this too follows Kants arc of thought; he begins with a metaphysics of mind, before going to a metaphysics of morals. It is true for Heidegger, he says for example that objects have no world; that is they are not aware of being in a world. Interestingly enough, Asimov is a well known SF writer that endowed his robots with an ethics - his three laws of robotics; which seems quite similar to various formulations of Kants categorical imperative - for example, compare his zeroth law and Kants kingdom of ends. 

This is an answer to a specific issue brought up in the comments on the theme of the OPs question. That is the nonsense that is the Derridian quote 'The Einsteinian constant is not a constant' in the context of Structuralism & Science. I'm putting it here as its obviously too long to go in a comment. Derrida wrote Sign, Structure & Play in the Discourse of the Human Sciences to present at a symposium at John Hopkins University in Baltimore in 1966 titled The Language of Criticism & the Sciences of Man. The intention of the symposium was to clarify the field of structuralism and define some of its common problems across disciplines. One should not be misled by the 'Sciences of Man' to suppose that they were primarily interested in the hard sciences - they were not - but to sciences applied to man, that is the study of man in his own being, for example sociology, anthropology or literary criticism After the oral presentation by Derrida of his paper, Hyppolite, a French philosopher, and translator of Hegel, in an attempt to understand Derridas 'centre for a structure' asked the following question: 

Nothing directly attributed to Thales that has come down to us, but Aristotle does mention four views in his books: 

Unlike the modern notion of force, say the attractive force of gravity, which is limited only to matter, the Empedoclean forces pervades not just matter but also the world of men, women and society as the extract alludes to. 

This isn't an answer per se to your question; but as a cautionary tale against dismissing mathematical formalism in unexpected locations in the human sciences. Its also much too long to go into a comment. Jack Morava, a distinguished mathematician published this paper 'On the Canonical formula of C. Levi-Strauss', he writes in the abstract: 

Given the history of the 20C one must say the passion of patriotism that becomes ideological (that is blind) far outweighs clear-sighted wisdom, as a boulder outweighs the doves feather. 

Tagore reflects on the possibility of infinite feeling and transcendence. In (one aspect) of the Hindu tradition one dissolves into the god-head (Brahman). In this poetic fragment he's using an image that opens Rumis Masnavi, the sufi Islamic treatise and acknowledging an affinity between these two very different traditions at some level. So, yes; because the imagination and sensibility is more capacious than we can say. Wittgenstein made a distinction between show & say. We know much more than can be said. We have seen much more than can be said - and I do not mean here by this the instrumental power of the eye - take it, perhaps as the eye of the imagination - which identifies both inner & outer forms of sensibility. Then what is revealed to us - cannot be said - but it has been shown. As to whether, we can imagine a greater joy/bliss/desire - I'm not sure that the logical nature of greater obtains in such discourse as this. Its the existence of intimations of such that I'm answering here. 

Newton appears to take rays to be coloured. In a later chapter, he does claim though that vision is: 

So he re-opens the question of purpose after first critically evaluating the 'Lamarkian' theory which posits a purpose in a certain sense; and then positing a 'Darwinian' type theory which demolishes said purpose through selection and survival of the fittest. 

And one could perhaps link this to stories in America of alien abductions; the same myth but with newer symbols; this kind of linkage points towards the structural anthropology of Levi-Strauss; applied to to Amazonian tribes - so called primitive societies; but to the urban civilisation of the North America (one tends not to hear of UFO abductions in Canada - are there any?); this would then be social anthropology. But none of this appears to be philosophy, at least academically construed; but is this right? Your question hints at one which is justification. To begin this one must start with the right questions; given our current epistemological commitments Aliens visting the Earth in UFOs can be ruled out; so Alien abductions are factually incorrect; but as explained above this is the wrong question - the question should be why has this myth arisen and persisted; and this might lead onto the more general question why do myths arise at all; why not be satisfied with the facts of the world? 

Jacque Ranciere wrote The Philosopher and his Poor. He mediates on the relationship between the Philosopher which does not belong to the Poor and the Poor themselves; and the fascination that the Poor have exerted on his thought from Antiquity to the present day; of course this is as true for Western Philosophy as well as Philosophy done elsewhere - say Buddhistic or Islamic. It seems like a good place to start but I can't comment critically as I haven't read the book myself. I do think that one should make a distinction between the Poor and the Ascetic which more about the cultivation of other virtues rather than riches - buddhists, stoics, cynics etc. The Poor that you mention seems to be more akin to the proletariat of Marx. 

The problem of time is a difficult, and is considered to be one reason why a theory of QG is hard to achieve (Smolin), and is amongst the concepts that Whitehead considers requires reconsideration even from a purely positivist and scientific framework. The block notion of time, is taken to be implicit in GR; whereas the growing block is implicit in Newtons framework; this, I take it does not mean that it is absolutely true, merely that it's a truth that ought to be taken into consideration in a full understanding of what time is and signifies. Aristotle took potentially infinite motion to be circular, and time to be measured by such motion; one might suggest that any straight line motion is actually an arc whose centre is at an infinite distance away - and I think such suggestions have been taken up in theological contexts; but this isn't I think the sense that Aristotle means; he means that such motion is local; and in fact this is how time is physically measured - by clocks, where the circular motion is visibly apparent and in atomic clocks where circular motion is implicit - transitions being periodic are 'abstractly' circular. It might be worth adding that the dichotomy paradox is in the line of descent from Parmenides who suggests that what is wholly actual is unchangeable; and then one deduces from here, given that change in our world is real, that the world is not wholly actual; and this might be one reason that Whitehead describes physical reality as 'occasions of determination', that is of the actual; and in this sense possibility precedes actuality; I take it though he also had QM in mind or the physics of the small. 

This looks like a translation of the term zeitgeist (the spirit of the age) which is usually understood to be taken from Hegel, except that Hegel never used such a term. He did however use the term der Geist seiner zeit, the spirit of his times, in his Lectures on the Philosophy of History. History here should be distinguished from original history which is the basic, original matter of history; for example, eye-witness reports and also from reflective history which is the history given by historians. What he's concerned with is philosophical history, a history of the world as guided by spirit. It's probably inspired by the notion of world soul in Plato: 

So if Kant was here, standing on his soap-box, saying: '[I suppose or posit] the possibility of conditional value ...' Then, I might have the chance to wave my hand, catch his attention and stop him speaking; and then ask him directly 'Hey there, Herr Kant; are you presupposing the existence of something with unconditional value?' Then, according to Guyer, in the short snippet above, he would say 'why, no ...' 

The question: is there a significant geometric form of these logics? Significant, simply in not being just a translation into geometric form, as in Venn Diagrams for boolean algebras (first being represented as some system of sets), but that allows for something deeper to be said about logic itself? 

It was probably Gramsci that first began to inflect the purely economic classes of Marx to incorporate cultural & social capital. Bourdeiu has carried on this tradition. 

Man lives in a world, and he is, mostly, and at most times, worldly and this is the kind of knowledge he is mostly occupied with; and even when he knocks up against the sciences, it is mostly within this attitude - for example, for him to hold a phone is not to wonder at how it works but to gain an understanding of how it can be put to use for him and in this world. Contemplation, that attitude that informs the sciences, both natural and human, happens rarely and fitfully, and then only for the few. 

Well spotted. It turns out that a number of traditional paradoxes rely on what is called the diagonal argument, and which can be interpreted as a fixpoint argument as the abstract of this paper by Yanufsky points out: 

Jainism appears to build a philosophy around relativism around three principles: Anekantavada - 'not of single attribute' Syadvada - predicates should be conditioned Nayavada - the theory of partial viewpoints Their philosophy even manifests itself in a seven-valued logic. I would hesitate to call it simply an ethical philosophy as it appears to have metaphysical weight. As this is a religous philosophy rather than a formal one, I would expect it to be part of every Jains education (but I can't be certain). I suspect a Jain would disagree with the proposition in the question. 

Wittgenstein is indulging in a little paradoxical play; for if one has already 'thought the thoughts', why read the book - it is an irrelevance - time lost, or buried; or at best, a recapitulation; in fact, he is referring to Platos Meno, where Socrates demonstrates that knowledge (even new knowledge), is in a sense, recollection; or perhaps, dia-logos is una-logos. But this does not only go for thought, for sense; it is true also for sensibility - as noted by Mahmoud Darwish: (poetic) sensibility reacts only on (poetic) sensibility. It's also noted by Hegel in the Phenomenology, where he moves from Sense Certainty (ie sensibility) to Absolute Knowledge. 

Then no-one would believe it; it would be an ersatz religion; religions to have any value are an organic outgrowth of a people. This is why Scientology, which is legally a religion in the states, doesn't properly count as a religion in the study of religions - more of a cult. Your argument is in Lucretious, and he is careful to invoke both gods, and God - for want of a better name. Perhaps he was hedging his wager; what if he wasn't? 

mathematics is full of circular reasoning, infinite regress and paradoxes. It may be exist, it may be fictional. Of course, it has no more infinite regress than any other discipline that depends on logic; but that the point, most don't see, it's seen as axiomatic, almost as Gods own truth, but more so; mathematical & logical facts have a status over other kinds of truth that perhaps they don't deserve. Similarly with physics. I can recall just how shocked the students were when a professor seemed to posit a particular idea without justification, prior proof etc; it seemed like magical thinking to them. This was in an advanced class - quantum field theory. (He was the manifestly the best lecturer, gathering a sustained round of applause at the end of his course, an honour not accorded to any other lecturer by the student body). Eugenia Cheng, a professional mathematician has said, that when she talks to philosophers, she's convinced that it doesn't exist, that it is problematic; but when she returns to her work, there they are, the concepts she handles, as solid as they can be before her minds eye. Can professional mathematicians/physicists actually assimilate how problematic mathematics/physics is, if they are to do their work, if they are too see the concepts they handle with concrete clarity, rather than as misty illusions. Rather than liberating, it may be disillusioning. Like piercing the veil of maya. note: Fictionalism is best thought of in opposition to Platonism, it "is the view that (a) our mathematical sentences and theories do purport to be about abstract mathematical objects, as Platonism suggests, but (b) there are no such things as abstract objects, and so (c) our mathematical theories are not true. Thus, the idea is that sentences like ‘3 is prime’ are false, or untrue, for the same reason that, say, ‘The tooth fairy is generous’ is false or untrue—because just as there is no such person as the tooth fairy, so too there is no such thing as the number 3"