At times, the emperor took an active role in Italy, for example Frederick I. Henry IV had to publicly submit to the pope, but he still meddled in Italy. He bribed the cities with privileges. 

So it doesn't really matter how many tanks and how many soldiers there were. Using them against the Soviets would have started WWIII, but then that front would immediately have become a sideshow as the fighting spreads to central Europe. The key question is how the Turkish player in the simulation stands regarding NATO and US use of Turkish bases. 

You should read about the Gleichschaltung, the Nazi attempt to take control of the entire German society. They managed to suppress most visible oppositon, which also applied to the sciences. 

Technically, West Germany (the FRG) did not annex East Germany (the GDR). Instead, the GDR declared their accession to the FRG. A treaty regulated the details. 

This question may need some work, but I'll do my best.. I remember hearing a while back that much of the history of India occurred in isolation. Without knowing whether this is strictly true, it got me to thinking about parallel social traits that have arisen independently in different regions of the world. One of the more interesting social traits is religion. We know that religion is ever evolving, breaking into further sects and so on, and we know that most people throughout history have had a tendency to ask 'why'. So my assumption is that if you take all of the religions which exist today and trace their lineage backwards, you'll find a set of ancestors of 'religious families' which came to be independently of each other. So what I wonder is: 

I'm not clear on number one being the case, and if it is I'm not sure which played a more prominent role in drinking alcohol. Did most people drink alcohol to avoid getting sick, or were they just drunks like us? 

I suspect that the quote is a reference to deaths at the Berlin Wall. This makes the use of the word "executed" imprecise under most definitons. They were killed by the GDR government. 

And as Jon points out, battleships didn't have the same armor over all faces. Early battleships just armored their waterlines and their guns. High angle fire made deck armor necessary and torpedoes made underwater side armor necessary. There was no comparable protection for the underwater underside. Torpedoes come not just from submarines but also from torpedo bombers. 

In addition to the comments by sds and Mark, let me note that at the time West Germany was extremely reluctant to do anything which would give the appearance of accepting or legitimizing the division of Germany into the FRG and GDR. The price of admitting the FRG to the UN would likely have been to admit the GDR as a separate nation. West Germany was not willing to pay that price. 

As far as I understand it from David Christian's 'Maps of Time', civilization is a direct function of population density. When groupings of people in any given geographic area can no longer support themselves via hunting/gathering, they need to intensify their ability to extract resources from the region, which results in agriculture, which results in a more sedentary lifestyle, which results in food surpluses, which results in civilization. So the answer to your question is likely something like: there were no populations dense enough yet to necessitate the need for robust agriculture, which would form a complex social structure, which we deem as civilization Tying it in with the ice age is something that I'm not as clear about. I wonder, though, if the diminishing of the ice age produced conditions where people could more easily thrive and see population growth, which led to the various agricultural revolutions you mention. 

The two cases for Germany are notable because they describe the capability of the German people to accept and integrate refugees which is in question here. If this can/will happen again is not exactly a topic for history SE, but it might be instructive to look at differences and similarities in the situations: At least on the short term, the refugees will need aid. Are the German people willing to share their wealth with them? 70 years ago, Germany coped with more refugees while everybody had less. The refugees were ethnic Germans. They were integrated into the remaining German territories. There is a perception in German public debate that the current refugee crisis is a global or European problem and that states like the US, UK, Poland, the Baltics, but also France and Hungary don't do their fair share to solve the problem. (The truth of this depends on the definition of "fair", which is beyond the scope this board.) Are people going to wait in refugee camps until the situation in Syria improves? People who are now 20 or 30 should be getting an education, finding jobs, raising families. They can't do that in Syria and it is difficult in the refugee camps in the region. In western Europe, they can. This causes them to move into a place where they are not just safe from the immediate effects of warfare but also able to build a life. Refugees or Economic Migrants? The German constitution says that those suffering political, ethnic, or religious persecution will be granted asylum. It was written in the aftermath of WWII, the voyage of the St. Louis was fresh in their minds. This was pointed out by Chancellor Merkel who stated that this right has no quotas attached. However, lack of economic opportunity is not among the enumerated reasons. As the process was getting more and more disorderly, the distinction became impossible to enforce. It isn't clear if the majority of the refugees are Syrian; there are people from all over the Middle East and Eastern Europe mixed in. (Albania, Kosovo, and Serbia were the second, third and fourth largest group for January to August 2015.) Are the Dublin agreements workable? Refugees are supposed to apply for asylum in the first safe country they enter, not travel onwards. The first country registers them and decides on their status. But that means most of them will file in the southern and eastern parts of the EU. Nobody is going directly to Germany or the UK unless they take a rowboat across the North Sea. So when Greece and Hungary got overwhelmed, Germany agreed to suspend that part of the accords and to register refugees who had passed through a safe EU country. Except that refugees phoned their friends and family and ever more made the journey. Most of them arrived in Munich. The sixteen states of Germany have agreed among themselves on a quota system, but the job of registration and shelter for the first few nights fell onto Bavaria. Bavarian leaders grumbled first, then they warned, then they got the Chancellor to reintroduce border controls. That is rippling south-east in a domino effect. 

Moving backwards in time, can all of the religious families be isolated to their own common ancestor? If so, what are the religious ancestors, and in what regions did they arise? 

This is something that I've been researching for the past few weeks and have found a few answers, but I assume I'm missing a few of them. Basically, the question is this: In which ways have modern historians defined our current era? Not sure how to tag this one if mods could do an edit that'd be great. Edit: The duplicate that was proposed seems to be asking about the distinction between the classical eras historians have defined we are currently living in. Whereas I'm interested in any and all definitions that historians have proposed, which may be more esoteric and obscure than the obvious ones like 'modern' and 'information age' 

Christianity in particular arose out of the Roman period when most people were trying to figure out the nature of the universe in lieu of any scientific evidence. When Christianity was coming into being there were innumerable religious sects throughout the Roman world, all competing with each other. By chance Christianity was the sect that grew, but the reason people believed in it was because it was an answer. In the modern world educated people take scientific knowledge for granted, in the ancient world this understanding did not exist, it was inconceivable. Without the ability to come to an accurate understanding people developed mythology. 

Meanwhile the French built the Maginot line. Contrary to public perception, they did not expect to hunker behind those bunkers. It was supposed to defend their right flank while the mobile forces assembled on the left flank, for a battle through Belgium and the Netherlands. When Germany won the battle in the Low Countries and broke through to Dunkirk, France didn't have the mobile troops left to stop a strike into their industrial and population centers. (Side note -- one could say that the same factors contributed to the German defeat by the Soviet Union. Germany was prepared for short, decisive campaigns, but not for the long run.) 

Your question touches on the problem how one would prove any historical fact when there is no living (and credible) witness or modern forensic analysis. Look at the sources, consider who wrote them, consider who would benefit from forging them, consider if multiple different sources give a coherent explanation. 

In many languages, the general term for distilled spirits (whisky, brandy etc) translates in modern English to 'Water of Life'. 

I'm more of a social historian than military historian, but if I understand correctly war between two factions is almost always a struggle for power. Is that the case? Are there examples of wars started for other reasons? Edit: There were some comments about the vagueness of the term power so I'm going to try to be more specific about it. By 'struggle for power', I mean: 

As a hobbyist in fine alcohol I'm curious of both the earliest known reference to this phrase, as well as it's likely origins, but the best I can come up with is 'likely much earlier than the Medieval period' from Wikipedia. 

I've been reading about the Warring States Period in Li Feng's 'Early China', and I don't know if I missed a passage but I can't seem to figure out why the period was so violent. I've been searching via Google but still I seem to be getting a lot of information on the dynamics of war, but not exactly why the wars happened in the first place. So a few questions about that: 

If the citizen and the homeland agree on the status, everything is fine. There could be some other constellations: 

Edited in response to Schwern's comments: In his answer, Schwern makes an excellent point to explain why Japan was in a hopeless situation and why Japan should have surrendered. He also points to some of the factors which worked against a surrender. None of those really changed with Hiroshima, or Nagasaki, or the Soviet invasion of Manchuria. August 15th was just as hopeless as August 1st. Did the Emperor act unilaterally to set policy or did he reflect a consensus? I would trust neither written documents at the time nor witnesses who came forward after the war to paint an objective picture of that decisionmaking proces. 

When you are talking about serfs bound to their village, that would be in the middle ages. Armies in continental Europe were feudal. So were tax collectors. Documents were often written in Latin. National armies and tax administrations belong into the early modern period. At the time, the upper classes would often speak French, regardless of what their subjects spoke. 

I understand that this sounds even more vague than the term power itself, but that's exactly the point of the question. I wonder if you can reduce human conflict to power conflict. 

I've read detailed social history on Scotland which goes back to about the 16th century, and it would seem like some of the poorest Scots of that era sometimes lived in housing which was as modest as mud / dirt huts. If I'm understanding correctly the medieval era saw a very gradual rise of the town and city, or in other words civilization, so my assumption would be that early medieval society may have been closer to tribal and very primitive. In any case, that brings me to the question of how people in early medieval Europe housed themselves, with Scotland as my case study. How did people in the current state of Scotland house themselves in the early medieval period? 

The HRE was a feudal state with strong centrifugal (or separatist) powers and a varying degree of church involvement. 

In many jurisdictions, the state of mind of the perpetrator may affect the punishment for a crime, or even if an act constitutes a crime. The old Latin term is mens rea. Killing in self-defense is a good example. It is no crime if the perpetrator acted in the genuine belief that he or she was under attack, but it is a crime if the perpetrator did not think so. Of course the court cannot read minds, so it will look at "reasonable man" standards or other evidence to discern the state of mind. Still, the intent is to punish actions for the wrong motives. 

In the 19th century, Japan sent out missions to learn different things from different industrialized powers. They were in a position to pick and choose their role models. I wonder if the Army faction in WWII was more predisposed to ally with Germany than the Navy faction. You might note that Japan allied with the Allies in WWI. Another factor would be antagonism to Russia. They allied with the enemy of their enemy.