Not too sure whether it is legal or not, however in Australia this kind of incident of careless road use is why cyclists are wearing cameras more and more. I recently got myself a Fly6 camera and have had several near misses since I've had it. Personally I'd knock on the window harder and harder until it opens. They're a laminated glass so it is VERY unlikely that you'll ever smash the window with your knocking; however it will cause the driver to worry about it smashing if they don't open it. Safe riding. 

The crank arm should definitely be lubed before installing into a bottom bracket. This is because of the long term rotations that are going to occur, and you want cranks to spin as freely in the BB as they can. As for other things like BB into the frame and headset, the reading I have done doesn't indicate that the BB needs to be greased prior to installation like you would a threaded BB; nor do headset cups into a headset. Park Tool have a couple of good tutorials for these two items ($URL$ & $URL$ Ultimately the reason you don't need to grease/lubricate those items at installation is because they don't move within the frame. The bearings will move inside each of the items. I.e. BB bearings rotate inside the BB shell and you will install headset bearings inside the cups. So it is the rotating parts that you would grease. The reason threaded BBs should be greased is to assist in the installation of them as the rotate into position (i.e. thread onto the frame). So ultimately there is no need to, however it shouldn't cause any harm if you do grease them before installation. 

I don't have an electric bike either. I do a commute of just under this distance each way every day and when used to it this distance is no issue. The problem I see with electric bikes is when resorting to pedalling only whether through desire or necessity you are "carrying" a hell of a lot of extra weight on top of the weight of the bike. I totally agree with the suggestions made by Kibbee. 

I agree with Snikrs and also ride a steel fixed gear frame in often wet UK. I recently purchased my current frame (upgrade the old one didn't rust through) and before using it sprayed the inside of the frame with Waxoyl but if I had been able to find it in the UK would probably have used J.P. Weigle's Frame Saver which many people swear by. What I don't like about Waxoyl is it remains quite slimy, I'm not sure if it would be good in a hot climate but it would be better than nothing. You have to be careful in the seat post area and clean it out to allow the frame to grip the seat post. But if done with care its not an issue. I usually just wipe the seat post with an old greasy rag to prevent it sticking in the frame. It is also important to move the seat post every now and again (3 months maybe) as a stuck seat post can be really hard to remove. The other precautions I took before riding the frame were: 

It is also possible with a brand new razor blade but the proper plier like tool makes it a lot more quick and easy. For hydraulic hoses they differ slightly because of the difference in hose material, there are two type of hydraulic hose cutters, one that looks a bit like a pill cutter such as this: 

Could you bend one yourself? Probably.. but it would lose structural integrity if done incorrectly. It may seem okay but could fail catastrophically under load. Without using a pipe bender the material would likely crease which could potentially lead to stress cracks and end up bad. To do it correctly, or have a shop do it, you would need steel tubing and a suitable pipe bender. You may be able to use a pre-existing bar but i worry it would weaken the structure. I'm by no means an expert, this is just my 2 cents. Lots of motorcycle and chopper people have bars custom made or make their own, it needs to be done correctly to be safe, but it can be done. I don't know enough about aluminum to answer that portion but i would be scared that the material would not take well to a second shaping. 

New rim strip (squishy thing) and check the valve hole for sharp edges or burs. It sounds to me like your rim is cutting tiny holes in your tube at the valve stem, a semi common occurrence. A new rim strip SHOULD cure the issue, but i would check the rim as well just in case. I've seen rims come from the factory with metal burs left over on the valve holes where they were drilled, especially cheaper entry level rims like weinmann 519s etc Rim strips don't last forever. With repeated changing of tubes and tire they get stretched and shifted around and do their job less well. Their job is to protect the tube from any sharp edges of the rim and where the spokes are attached,the nipples can be rather sharp from the screwdriver or tool that was used when the wheel was built. (yes they could have chose a different word but it really is spoke nipples) It is also a good idea when changing a tube to run your hand on the inside of the tire to make sure there are no thorns stuck in the rubber waiting to pop your next tube, but it sounds like you have narrowed it down to the valve holes. Finally, when installing a new tube be sure that the valve comes through the hole straight, at a 90ยบ angle to the rim surface. Otherwise when you inflate it and introduce pressure, the base of the valve is pressed into the valve hole of the rim which can be rather sharp. 

It could be that you've cross threaded the lock ring, although you should notice this within the first few turns. To prevent it coming loose again though you could try some loctite on it. 

Without knowing more details about the fork (coil spring vs air spring) it is hard to recommend anything other than getting it serviced at your LBS. With that said I know on my MTB with fox float forks, that if I leave it upside down for a while it won't lockout properly. Usually because the oil has displaced within the chamber. Maybe try flipping it upside down overnight and then seeing if that helps. 

To be honest, the simplest thing is going to be getting tubes with the correct valve length for your rims. If your LBS won't do the exchange put it down to a lesson in what length valves you need for your flash 50mm rims. 

Best place to look is Sheldon Brown's famous site. $URL$ I would suggest given the difference in diamaeter you will run into issues attempting to put your 700x23c tyres on a 650c rim. 

As @Batman says, 2mm is VERY little clearance on a bike. It is more likely to be the frame flexing (more so the chain and seat stays) causing the tyre to move around a bit. I would see if there is a way to mount the stand a little further forward on its bracket. You want to create as much distance as you can between your stand and the tyre as possible. Video example of a frame flexing to show what is meant by flex 

There is a proper tool that is probably the best solution. They cut so that it does not smash the ends or the metal inside of the housing. Many also have an awl in order to help reform the end if any smashing or deformation does occur. Most look something like this: 

There is no real problems other than things getting scratched or broken being shuffled around, derailleurs easily get caught on seat belts etc. There is however a very easy and affordable option to avoid this. (Assuming you have QR skewers) Install a 2x4 or similar piece of wood. Then mount QR truck mounts to said 2x4. If you are going to be using your SUV to carry your bike very often this is the way to go if you don't want to spend the money on a roof or trunk rack. Generally, and depending on SUV make and model you can easily fit more than one bike using this method. 

Assuming your talking about the older Sun EZ-1 recumbent, the weight limit is 300lbs. You would probably be alright as most weight limit are a "lawyer number" meaning that is not the maximum capacity but for legal reasons they set it at that. If you do get it i would recommend replacing the wheels on it at some point as the ones that come on it are so-so. And a heavier duty set of double wall rims and decent spokes would hold up a lot better over time if you'll be using it a lot. The wheels that come on them are Weinmann 519's which are a generic single wall rim. The good thing is most the parts are very similar so if you need something as a replacement more than likely they are still being produced and available. The company has sense changed it's name for recumbents to Sun Seeker, and is the house brand of J&B Importers a national parts distributor who also owns Origin8. The newest owners manual for the EZ-1 Classic (very similar) can be found here 

GCN do some great how to videos and will possibly be a good resource for you in your general overhaul of the bike. Here is one specific to you need for this post 

Given the bike operates like a single speed and all the gearing is in the hub, you should be fine removing the chainguard. Be warned though if you cycle in trousers this increases the chance of losing your trouser leg to the bite of chain meeting chainring. You're also more likely to increase the chance of the dreaded chain grease tattoo on legs or trousers. 

A more puncture resistant tyre isn't going to necessarily help in this situation. If you've come out of work and you've got a flat, it seems like a slow leak. If you didn't find anything in the tyre the 2nd time, I would be checking how you've seated the tyre on the rim, have you accidentally pinched the tube a bit, are the valves in good working order, are the tubes the right size for your 29x2.25 tyres? When you're at home and have time and focus I would very carefully check the rim & tape for sharp edges, I would turn the tyre inside out and very thoroughly check for embedded objects or grit floating around in the tyre. Further to this, check your tube to see what the puncture looks like (single hole, snake bites, etc). If the tube has already been patched, then ditch it and put a fresh tube in. As a side note on checking the tube and tyre for objects and puncture cause, you could mark the tube with a piece of chalk where the valve is so that when you take it all apart you can line the valve up with where it was on the tube so you can more easily inspect the tube puncture site on both the tyre (inside it) and the rim. I find this can be helpful to quickly identify the most likely site of tyre/rim damage. But simply the best way to never get a puncture on a bike again is, don't ride. But we all know that isn't going to happen is it. 

I personally think that the wear issue is not as simple as one size chain being better than the other. Whilst this may be the case, it will all depend on the quality of the products involved ie cog, chainring and chain. 

I have a set of Avid Shorty 4 cantilever brakes, well two sets (front and back) and wish to upgrade the pads. These are centre pull, linear pull brakes and have brake pads which are mounted from the centre, ie the post (which is threaded) is centred in the pad. Looking for new pads I see that there is a much wider variety of v-brake pads than cantilever pads. As v-brakes are a subset of cantilever brakes can I use v-brake blocks with my cantilever brakes? I note these tend to have more brake pad at the back of the mounting post than at the front of the pad. I would also like if possible cartridge mounted pads any recommendations would be much appreciated. Thanks in advance. 

Stuck a large rubber bung in the base of the steerer column to prevent water entering here (even though I have mudguards). I had to shorten the bung slightly to prevent it showing. My saddle clamp encloses the top of the seat post if this wasn't the case I would fill this in a similar manner. This is something I have done on all my frames for the last 20 or more years. Filled every bolt hole with a bolt ensuring ample waterproof grease was applied to the threads. Teflon grease is not great at this I find it gets washed out easily. Marine grease is much better, I use Unipart Marine but there are loads available; they are all considerably cheaper than any proprietary bike grease and I use mine for most applications (hubs, headsets etc) and it last much longer between applications (I commute every day in all weathers). Filled all drain holes as described in step 3 of the Bike Radar winter proofing article. For my frame match sticks were way too small. I used chopsticks, I found snipping approx 3-5 mm off the end and then cutting 5 mm of chopstick was a perfect fit and pretty flush to the frame. Before pushing into the hole I coated in the wood in clear nail varnish (not mine) and then again over the top and overlapping slightly onto the frame once inserted. This varnish prevents water absorption and helps create a seal without using glue. Finally before fitting the bottom bracket I coated the threads of the shell and its interior with the waterproof grease even though already sprayed with Waxoyl. 

Keep the bike and fix it up. In your situation I would consider a single speed conversion. The beauty of a single speed is that maintenance is lower, no need to worry about shifters, deraileurs, etc. Just find a gear that works for you and the area you ride, and all you need to do is give the chain the occasional lube. I had an old 26 inch MTB that I converted to a single speed, pretty much the same needs as yours. Where I live we don't get snow, but instead torrential rain. My reasons for going single speed were mostly around expense. I couldn't afford a new bike, and wanted to keep the spend to a minimum. I knew I would be riding in the rain, where I would end up having splashed up road grit and grime cause damage to my drivetrain. I also wanted ease of maintenance. After the initial build and setup, I don't need to worry about gear cables stretching and dodgy shifting. I just need to lube the chain every now and then, and I know I have a good reliable bike to commute on in any weather condition. As @batman says you need to consider things like whether or not you have a freehub or freewheel and the impact that may have on chain line, and the type of conversion kit. You also need to look at your dropouts and work out whether or not you need a chain tensioner, or go fancier and get an eccentric bottom bracket (they are costly). But I would still suggest it is worth considering a single speed for commuting in bad weather conditions. In 18 months of commuting I haven't had to spend any money on the bike other than using some of my lube that I already had. 

There are several forums that cater to vintage bikes, one of the best in my humble opinion is the Cabe - The Classic and Antique Bicycle Exchange 

To do it best, You will need the bar (obviously) and the brifter(brake/shifter) and to switch to cantilever brakes. The latter is avoidable if you use what's called a travel agent but if you have the money the canti's are the way to go, as the travel agents are ugly and I have heard a lot of people having issues with them. The reason for this is that V brakes have a different pull ratio than road brakes and with v brakes and a road lever you don't get proper leverage and the result is poor braking. Look up 9sp brifter on google and you should have a plethora of choices. You should be able to use your existing stem as long as the clamp diameter is the same. If I had to guess your looking at a 200 bucks if your were to go through a shop, total guess on my part though, and that number could vary greatly dependent on the components and quality/brands you go with. 

There is one thing you can try, if you have disc brakes. It works a lot better than one might think. You can put zip ties around your tire and rim if there is enough clearance. The more zip ties the better the traction. Also the heavier duty zip ties the better. When placing them alternate the heads so that they are on both shoulders of the tire. I have ridden on ice and snow several times with this method and have yet to go down. I wouldn't get to crazy on them and it helps to keep a pocket of ties, but this method works and does not break the bank like a $100+ studded tire will. If you can lower your tire pressure slightly that will help as well. I have run this method on a 26" MTB tubeless, running 15psi and it never slipped on a parking lot covered in 1" of solid ice, that i had trouble walking on.