Other answers have addressed the large numbers of inspectors and officials that would need to be bought off for you to even construct the "factory". But your problems don't end there. Suppose you somehow do get past all the inspections and get to the point where your factory is open for business. A factory has to have employees, right? Where are yours, and where are your (and their) employment taxes? Even if your city is corrupt, tax fraud at the state and national levels will be much harder to pull off. And all those employees should be having an effect on traffic and parking in the immediate area; unless traffic is already terrible (in which case people probably objected during the planning phase), eventually somebody's going to notice. And what about your consumption and output? A big factory should be drawing tons of power, even if you put solar panels on the roof (which doesn't appear to be a terrible idea in Detroit but probably won't run your plant by itself). Depending on what you claim to be producing, you should be drawing a fair bit of water too -- if nothing else, you'd need lunch, toilets, and maybe showers for all those workers you (don't) have. And sewage to go with. Depending on your processes, possibly also industrial waste that requires special handling. If you (claim to) be consuming and emitting all this stuff, eventually somebody's going to notice that the meter readings and/or utility incomes don't match. If you claim to somehow not need all that, environmentalists, reporters, and others will be beating down your door to find out what your secret is. "Building" a fake factory is already hard; "operating" it will bring you additional difficulties. 

Social activities are derived from shared values. We can see differences here even among human cultures, and with alien cultures it becomes even broader. For example: 

Spread the celebration beyond Rome earlier Christian scriptures do not include a date or even a season for Jesus's birth. December 25 was a ret-con, established by the western church in the 4th century and chosen to coincide with a major Roman festival. The early church overlaid Christmas on a Roman festival because Rome was a huge concern in their lives. The 4th century is pretty late, though. So don't wait until then. In the first decades of the existence of this new religion, spread its message, including the celebration of this day, among other nations, like Greece. Ancient Greece had a lot of festivals; choose one that has the thematic or timing elements you prefer, one that's not in winter. Establish the church early, and by the time church councils are meeting in later centuries, the date will already be fixed. Instead of the orthodox churches following the Roman church on establishing Christmas, as happened in our world, the Roman church will follow the Greek church if the Greek festival gets there first. The church is still going to need to deal with Rome, but that's ok -- there are other events, undated in Christian scriptures, that could be overlaid on Roman festivals. The church could designate a date in late December as the day commemorating a significant miracle, perhaps the one about bringing a man back from the dead or the one about feeding a crowd with a few loaves and fishes. Rebirth in the depth of winter and feeding people in times of agricultural scarcity are both themes that could catch on. So you still get a holiday in December, but one that's clearly not as important as either the birth or death/resurrection of Jesus. The later acretions -- gift-giving, bigger festivities, secular hoopla -- would move to the new date for Christmas. Santa might need to trade his big fur coat in for a beach towel and sunglasses, but people are remarkably resilient about these things. 

Most recent first, and with a support structure. Somebody who died 3000 years ago will be baffled by today's world. Somebody who died last week probably won't be. So don't start with the ones from 3000 years ago. Start with the most-recently departed, teach them the essential post-mortem changes, and then enlist their aid with the next-earlier wave. Somebody who died 50 years ago will be surprised and confused by some things, and a modern person won't be able to anticipate all of them. But somebody who died 45 years ago will have a pretty good idea of what he's going through, having just made the adjustment himself. So as you work backwards, each "class" of recently revived helps the next class, i.e. the next-earlier ones, adjust. For best results, you should match up mentors and revived with as many similarities as possible -- same culture, same language, similar socio-economic groups, etc. You want to take advantage of shared background and shared context, just like some immigrant communities do today. In many cases the best matches come from family members, even if this means larger differences in time of death. If you had a good relationship with your grandpa, you're in a good position to help him acclimate. If he had a good relationship with his grandpa, he can do the same. And so on and so on and so on. You'll need to figure out how to screen for this, though, so you don't have vindictive kids who are upset about the inheritance put in charge of acclimating the parents they're mad at. Possibly the best mitigation is to have groups work with groups instead of pairing people up one on one. 

Suppose I do that -- I have an earth-like planet orbiting a G-class star in a binary system. I'll assume for now that the second star is also G-class, but I'm flexible about that. Suppose the planet is in the goldilocks zone of the star it's orbiting and the other is much rather away, 50-100 AU. Some questions from the planetary perspective: 

It depends. In a culture that requires inheritance down the male line, if there are no surviving sons the title might pass to a younger brother or nephew. In a culture that allows women to inherit, a title could pass to the daughter. In either case, you can also decide whether titles are personal or can be married into. Maybe your Count Advar is married to the Duchess Bamblebry; that doesn't need to make him a duke. 

By putting prisoners in a place where they wouldn't be able to survive on their own, you are taking on a larger burden of caretaking: 

I have aphakia, so I can address the near-UV end from personal experience. For the near-IR, I can only reason from other sources. In daylight, subtle effects like the patterns on flowers mentioned in another answer are completely dwarfed by the giant UV source in the sky. Somebody seeing into the near-UV sees sunlight as brighter than others do, to the point of being painful at times. On bright sunny days, or bright winter days with snow cover, I have to wear protective lenses and/or squint to block out a lot of the light. Near-UV vision is a negative in broad daylight. Near-UV shines, so to speak, in moonlight. Moonlight is just reflected sunlight, but the full moon is only about 1/400,000 the brightness of the sun, so someone who sees into the near-UV can see by moonlight without it being painful. My personal experience is that moonlight makes everything brighter (compared to what I see through glasses) and whiter/bluer. I've never looked for, or noticed, flower patterns or vole urine trails, so I don't know if that's farther into the UV or bees' and predators' eyes are different in this regard. I would expect a human who can see into the near-UV without the loss of visual acuity that comes from aphakia to see well by moonlight, preferring moonlight to low levels of artificial light. (For example, when walking outside he'd probably prefer not to carry a small lantern.) Light-colored surfaces will be especially visible; he'll probably trip over dark obstacles the same as anybody else. At the other end of the spectrum, near-IR vision will see thermal signals, the hotter the brighter. This is the principle used by night-vision devices that help military people see opponents. It's not so much an optical "seeing" like near-UV but, rather, heat made visible in near-IR. You'll see a person but not the details of what he's wearing, for instance. (Near-IR vision won't help you see stuff that's the same temperature as its surroundings.) I speculate that a very hot object could "blind" you in the way that bright sun "blinds" you in near-UV, and that near-IR vision will brighten things overall in daylight, particularly on a warm sunny day. Things like remote controls and IR-illumination LEDs built into security cameras operate in the IR spectrum, so somebody with near-IR vision should be able to see them at least in a dark room. I don't know whether they would be too faint to see in a bright room for someone seeing both normal and IR spectra. I was unable to find anything that addresses how near-IR vision would affect what you see in daylight. You're extending the range in both directions, so we need to consider how these two modifications would interact with each other. In bright daylight, as best I can tell, neither will confer an advantage and at least near-UV confers some disadvantage. (I think near-IR would confer a disadvantage too.) At night, you should be able to benefit from both; the reflection and fluorescence of near-UV is a completely different process from the thermal properties of near-IR. I was unable to find reliable information about how night-vision devices perform under full moonlight, which would give us some hint about whether they interfere with each other. People who see in the near-UV and near-IR spectra in addition to normal visible light will probably be super-sensitive to sunlight. I would expect them to either spend less time outdoors or wear eye protection akin to sunglasses or chemically-variable lenses. In darker settings and under moonlight, however, they'll do better than normal humans and wouldn't want any filters in the way. If your humans solve their sensitivity problem with special glasses, therefore, they'll need a way to turn it off. (Sure you can just take the glasses off, but that leaves you with something you need to carry around and protect. Photochromatic lenses appeal to people who don't want to carry around an extra pair of sunglasses; your people will have an analogous problem.) 

Teleportation as you describe it is a sudden change in location that the teleportee perceives through all available senses. We obviously can't test that on humans today, but we can get some clues from the closest approximation we can get with current technology: virtual reality. VR, like flight simulators that preceded it, can cause something akin to motion sickness. The disorientation comes from the mismatch between the artificial scene -- for example, what you're seeing -- and your body (like your inner ear). But this seems to come from motion, not scene changes, so that doesn't immediately help. A scene that's changing very quickly does not automatically produce the same effects as a cut to a new scene. This article argues that teleportation (I think it means both bullet time and cuts) actually does work in VR, and the author explains why: we all grew up watching TV and movies. We're used to seeing sudden scene changes. We're ok with that. Seeing them through VR goggles apparently isn't especially jarring. (By the way, there are best practices for VR developers that address perception issues.) So if our teleportation concerns were only about the visual aspects, we'f probably be in pretty good shape: it shouldn't be too disorienting, and you might tell first-time or squeamish travelers to close their eyes for a few seconds. But teleportation also changes what you hear, smell, and feel (tactile, temperature, wind, etc). If the atmosphere or gravity changes you'll probably notice that, much like people flying to Denver for the first time. The visual changes are the ones we're best-equipped to deal with through conditioning. The others will be more disorienting. If the context is something like a rescue mission, add stress for that (though subtract some if the people involved are trained soldiers). So what can you do about it? For "beaming down to the planet" (et al), there's probably not much you can do other than to warn/remind people before they jump what to expect on the other end. When teleporting to a controlled location (like returning to the ship), try to create as neutral an experience as you can: 

Even if you send only your worst criminals there, there will be some socio-political unrest if people start dying. And unlike the prison down the road, it's harder for you to keep order or bring in extra enforcement when needed. Spaceflight might now be cheap, but is it fast and widespread? An additional factor is economic. Yes it's much more difficult for prisoners to escape, which brings some peace of mind (unless they manage to commandeer a supply ship!). But a space station is also much more expensive to build and maintain than a conventional Earth prison. How are the taxpayers going to feel about that?