It seems the right flank of the river has been annexed by Tirol from Switzerland, on the oldest map the border follows the river and as such the valley is spit in two, from 1869 on, the border follows the summits and the valley is entierely Austrian. Modern map of the eara : $URL$ (Notice that since WW1 the land in question is part of Italian South Tirol) 

In French we say "Belle Époque", but I don't know if there's an english equivalent. The term refers specifically to the period imediately predecessing the Great War, but there is no clear begining of the eara, it could be as early as 1871 (after the end of the Franco-Prussian war) or later. When using Wikipedia it seem the foreign language have to some extent adopted the French term, however I do not know how commonly they are used. 

I could go like that forever, however you see the idea. Nowadays people do not change the spelling of their names when going from a country to another country using the latin alphabet, resulting in major pronunciation errors, confusion, and exclusion of people with those weird names even many generations after they fully assimilated to their new country. My questions is : 

This particular quote really made me scratch my head because this book was only about Bavaria, which on paper has nothing to do with Prussa, so why would the guy give a damn about so-called "Prussian tradition" ? So who used to consider themselves "Prussian"? Did people that were in political Prussia, but not geographical Prussia, ever feel "Prussian", or did they always continue to consider themselves Rheinlanders, Hessians, Hanoverians, etc, etc... ? In the case where someone was part of Prussia, but did not feel "Prussian", is there a case where they claimed they were illegally occupied by Prussia ? Last but not least: Is there still people who consider themselves "Prussian" today (especially refugees from annexed eastern Germany and their descendants ?) 

Of course Crecy and Agincourt are more famous for the Welsh archers, but Courtrai, Bannockburn, Aljubarrota, Sempach and Grandson are good examples of "peasants with pitchforks" tactics being decisive. EDIT: A case could be made that the Battle of Stirling Bridge belongs to this group too. 

In the memoirs Babur himself wrote, the Bāburnāma, there's indeed a lot of beheading. Some examples (by no means an exhaustive list): 

My guess is the War of Knives got its name because the irregular fighting and lots of saved ammo. Googling your question brings two more possible answers: 

But the Wikipedia article on the Siege itself doesn't mention him whatsoever, the order of battle doesn't show any of his troops, and all other biographies I've read about the character don't say anything about this. So, was Juan Martín Díez, el Empecinado, present in Ciudad Rodrigo during the siege by Ney? 

It is anecdotical but I want to know if the Marshalls of the Empire appointed by Napoleon got well along or if they could hardly tolerate each other. I'm specially interested in Lannes, Davout, Desaix, Masséna, Murat, Ney and Soult. I already know - please, correct me if I'm wrong - that Murat wasn't very much appreciated by Davout, Lannes or Ney. That Ney and Soult hated each other after Spain. That Desaix and Davout were friendly, and that Masséna refused to sentence Ney to death after the Hundred Days. If all of the above is correct, is there anything else worth mentioning - relationship wise - among these seven Marshalls of the Empire? 

One of the owners that sailed to Dunkirk was Charles Lightoller, who had been second officer on board the RMS Titanic. When the Admiralty tried to requisition his yacht, the Sundowner, Lightoller insisted that 

Procopius of Caesarea, in his "History of the Wars", Book II of the Persian War, Chapter XIX, says this: 

There are more examples in pages 303, 441 and 474. I don't know if Babur enjoyed using human skulls as Lego, but by the tone of his comments, certainly very upset he was not. 

It was common for lower classes families in the XIX century to have families of 6-10 children living in an extremely small flat, having only one bedroom for the whole family, and usually only one bed for many kids, if not one bed for the whole family. Was it also common for kids to witness intercourse of their parents? If not, I do not see how the parents could do that discretely without anyone noticing. 

At first I thought this statement was wrong, but thinking further I couldn't find any example of two unquestionably democratic states engagint a war with eachother. I can only find examples of democracy declaring war to a dictatorship (USA invading Irak in 2003) or a dictatorship invading a democracy (for example Germany invading Czechoslovakia in 1938). Cases of two dictatorship attacking eachother are unfortunately too common so that no example is needed... The best counter-example to A.fm.'s claim I can find is Austria-Hungary declaring war to Serbia in 1914... but both of those countries were more hybrid regimes than full democraties it seems. France declaring war to Prussia in 1870 is also borderline making it, but both countries were kind of hybrid/half-democraties at this point of time. 

After Nazi Germany's defeat in 1945, many Germans from former minority communities were expelled from central europe. In addition to that, two significantly large areas with German majority were cleansed of all Germans, and repopulated with people from other places. The first place is what is today western Poland, which was repopulated with poles from the Kresy, former eastern Poland and today western Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine. The second place is the Czech/formerly Austrian sudetenland, which in reality are multiple mountainous territories in Bohemia and Moravia not restricted to the Sudetes themselves that were assigned to Czechoslovakia. There was however not a very significant Czech population to settle the lands, so with whom did the Czechoslovak government repopulate those areas? I know that there was some Czechs living there before Hitler annexed the areas and were expulsed, and there was Czechs that couldn't return their homes after being freed from camps because their homes had been bombed or burned down. However were those enough to repopulate all the sudetenland ? 

The Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology also says that Archestratus had a teacher, Terpsion: 

I'm writing a little piece on Juan Martín Díez, el Empecinado (the most famous Spanish guerrilla leader of the Peninsular War), and I need to know if he took part in the defence of Ciudad Rodrigo during the siege conducted by Marshal Ney in 1810. The Wikipedia article on el Empecinado says this: 

In your edit you mention the Battle of the Golden Spurs, as Courtrai, its other name. Quoting the Historical significance part in Wikipedia article: 

The beginning of the Roman Republic is traditionally dated to 509 BC, when the Roman king Tarquinius Superbus was overthrown. Wikipedia article about the Crisis of the Roman Republic states that political instability and social unrest began with Tiberius Gracchus in 134 BC, and his proposal of land reforms. Between the death of Tarquinius in 495 BC and the election of Gracchus as tribune in 134 BC, was there any internal political crisis serious enough to menace the Roman Republic? Besides the outbreak of the First Servile War in 135 BC, that is. 

Alexander the Great founded many Alexandrias. Following his example, the Diadochi and the Epigoni did the same: Antigonia, Demetria, Lysimachia, Seleucia, Antiochia, Cassandreia... This trend seems to have started with Philip II of Macedon and Philippi: 

In this case, the German "alt" (old) and the Spanish "alto/alta" (high) are false friends. Wikipedia cites as a source for this the book Historia del mundo sin los trozos aburridos by Fernando Garcés ("Wold History without the boring parts"). 

During the Crimean War (1853–56), Charles George Gordon took part in the Siege of Sevastopol (1854–55), calling it "the last of the old sieges". What made Sevastopol so "old fashioned" for a comment like that? I can think of two reasons: 

Book II, Chapter 5, 22 Besides that Heraclitus can get really deep, we can infer from this that book lending in Classical Athens was not unheard of. The source for this anecdote seems to be Aristo of Ceos, a 3rd-century BC philosopher, as Diogenes Laertius explains in the Herodotus chapter: 

For some reason I cannot find reliable source about that. Germany's population were in majority German, but there was also Frenchs in the west, Danes in the north, Lithuanians, and Poles in the east, among other minorities that would cause no problem for Germany. The problem of Frenchs fighting against France, and Lithuanians or Poles fighting against Russia where other Lithuanians and Poles also lived was an obvious problem. I am pretty sure Germany solved this by sending Poles and Lithuanians to the west front to fight France, and sent people from the west of the country toward the east to fight Russia, however I cannot find a source on this right now. Nevertheless my question is, were those people (Poles and Lithuanians on the western front, Frenchs on the eastern front) treated differently than German people (such as making them more often on the front line, and by giving them more risky missions) ? I have heard this was the case, but then again, cannot find any sources. If so, how could the German army know which soldiers were concerned, since ethnicity was not recorded in Germany, and all citizens of the German Empire were considered "German" by the government ? 

There is a long history of free imperial cities having extra privileges within the Holy Roman Empire. Many cities in contemporary Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Italy were former free imperial cities. However, most of them disappeared progressively. When Hitler took power in Germany in 1933, 3 free cities remained : Hamburg, Lübeck and Bremen. Unsurprisingly, Hamburg, Bremen are still free cities to this day, which means they are federal Länder states within the Federal Republic of Germany. What is more a mystery is why Lübeck is no longer a city state. Actually, the sole reason the city state does not exist anymore and was incorporated into Schwestig Holstein is because Hitler decided it in 1937, because of his personal dislike of the city (the reason of this dislike is suspected to be because NSDAP support was low). Despite the fact it was obvious that the dissolution of the city state for such a reason is completely illegitimate, the western allies did not recreate a post war city state like they did for Hamburg and Bremen. Is there any reasons the western allies restored 2 of the 3 free cities, but not the third ? [*] Is there any political group in Lübeck that are striving in order to restore their status as an independent federal state ? (It doesn't seem to be the case but I'd just ask in case I might have missed something or used the wrong keywords in German) [*] I'm excluding Berlin as it has a completely separate history which is out of topic here. 

The reason was colonialism and trade rights. For this same reason, the Dutch had already sent a ship in 1902, along Britain, Germany and Italy. 

I'm quite interested in the removal of the Hastati, Principes and Triarii elements introduced by the Marian reforms in 107 BC, and how it affected the Roman army at first. Looking on Wikipedia for Roman battles just after the reform brings two Roman defeats in the Cimbrian War: the Battle of Burdigala (107 BC) and the disastrous Battle of Arausio (105 BC). Both articles mention other causes for defeat, but I'm wondering if inexperience in a new system on the battlefield played a part. Of course, in case the new Marian legions didn't made their debut in neither of those battles, where was it and what impact had the new composition of the army? 

Definitively not an answer, but info about Bakht Khan seems scarce (a simple Google search now returns this page as 9th result). 

Dessalines really had a fixation with death-by-machete. After seizing the power, he ordered the Haiti massacre of 1804: 

The first book that comes to mind is "The Golden Bough: A Study in Comparative Religion" by James George Frazer, published in 1890. Very influential on its day, not so much today. Still, a fascinating read if you're interested in such themes. Modern understanding of Greek mythology from Wikipedia shows also this: 

Gaius Pius Esuvius Tetricus was the last emperor of the short-lived Gallic Empire (260–274 AD). "Tetricus" in Latin means cheerless or dark, which makes me think there may be an anecdote on how he got that nickname. So far, I searched in Google, Wikipedia, and the Historia Augusta and I have not found anything about its origin. 

This is taken from the Genghis Khan and Subutai chapter (bold is mine), right after the Battle of Legnica, where the Mongols defeated Poles, Moravians, and Templar Knights. In the same book (in fact just before the text I quoted) Hart says "the Knights Templars die fighting to the last man". Who was this Templar knight?