Taking the initiative to reschedule the task yourself would be interpreted as a good deed in most workplaces. Since you know this PM is a little unusual, the first time you do it you might want to phrase it more as a question: tell the PM it will be 4 weeks and offer to update the ticket yourself. Once you get permission to do that once, you can do it every time. 

Yes/no questions are bad interview questions. If you can give a great answer to a bad question, you are ahead of the game. Yes and No are both bad answers. A good answer explains why you think you are or are not, and probably has a story too. For example: 

And here I pause. What is the question you would ask your boss after telling about this condition. What accomodation do you want? I can think of many: 

Look at it this way: the email did not say "your interview is on the 3rd at 2pm." They know they need to work out a mutually agreeable date. That said, I would suggest replying saying something like you would like to have it before the Xth or else after the Yth, because of your defense on the Ath. That gives them more flexibility than if you wait until someone calls you and then say "none of those dates work for me, how about a week after your last one?" I've prepared for a thesis defense. Taking some time out for a job interview before it is probably the best thing to do. It gets your mind off worrying and fussing and gets you looking past it to the life you'll be living after you complete this degree. It might even give you some good ideas for things your research can apply to or the like. You don't really need to prepare for a first job interview very much. Just talk to them about what you've been doing and what you want to do. 

Since you know you might not understand this person correctly, I would avoid yes/no or other terse answers. Constantly checking to see what they mean before answering is exhausting. But 

The vast majority of job seekers are seeking because of reason 3. So the fact there's something about your job you don't like is not unusual or strange or a black mark on you. Bad answers to this question make you look bad. Over generalizations, selfishness, obvious inability to perform or to understand the business environment. Things like 

Not sure a fresh grad can say that with a straight face, so you might want to work something up you're cool saying. The ID wouldn't bother me. Prove your name, residency, and right to be employed wherever it is you're applying: seems fine. 

People attend funerals for many reasons. A minority of people attend as part of a grieving process for themselves alone. You don't need to go to the funeral to deal with your loss of a coworker, but the thing is there are a number of other reasons to go that you should seriously consider. I can't explain why, but I can assure you from experience: the bereaved family is cheered up when coworkers, old friends, neighbours, and such come to funerals and memorial services. "Look, a dozen of Dad's old students are here." "I can't believe how many people from the old neighbourhood came." "It seems like the whole office showed up." Even if you don't talk to the family, just being there will help them. It reminds everyone that the person who has died was important to other people too. Also, listening to the speeches and the small talk will give you some context so that you know more about this associate. Without it, you might not understand why others are upset (or not) in the months to come. And finally, I strongly recommend taking the chance to attend a funeral when you are not sad, so that you can learn how they work. This may help you in the future if you are genuinely bereaved. It can be a very confusing time, and only afterwards will you understand a lot of social conventions that are followed without much explanation. Go. Talk to coworkers so that you will not be there alone. (Arrange a time to meet or share a ride.) Shake hands with the family and say "I'm sorry for your loss." If you can, say "I only knew him a month but he was obviously a great guy." If you have a one sentence story, you can tell it ("Your dad was super nice to me my first day and showed me where the lunchroom was" or "He was so proud of his beautiful dog" or "he got me interested in baseball") but don't feel you have to. Listen and observe, to learn both how funerals work, what this associate was like, and what your coworkers value. Then hope you don't have to do that again for a long time. 

(There may not be the middle thing about changing their job to something lesser, depending on the company size and jobs that exist there.) Others would say 

Giving either developer a raise will just make the other one mad. Giving both a raise won't help. Telling someone they are 8/10 not 9/10, or that skill A is not actually more important than skill B, will hurt their feelings. It will also probably feel like a lie that you trotted out after the fact to justify the fact you are underappreciating and underpaying your "Best" person - keeping in mind they both think they are the best person. Nothing good comes of it. Feelings get hurt. People leave. You may think it's all logical and simple, but it's not. 

There is someone you need to go to and say "please take this guy off my team", right? And presumably "please give me a replacement" as well? I suggest you say something completely different to them. Something like this: 

Then go home and do whatever crunching you need to do. When you call the next day it's not to say "yes" or "no" it's to say "I can make this pay cut work if you can (whatever it is you want from them) and I would love to work there, so is there a way you can do that?" 

There are many motivations for asking this question. Chances are, they are asking "are we likely to have several rounds of negotiation with you every time you tell your employer we've won, and they raise the bid?" If this is the question, you can reassure them without actually answering whether you expect a counter offer or not. But they may be asking "how much do they value you at your current employer right now?" or "how 'into' the whole negotiation and strategy thing are you, and how important is salary to you?" The best answers are not just to the literal question (yes/no) but to the underlying wondering that prompted it. As always, don't lie or just say what you think they want to hear. If you say you would never consider a counter offer, then get one, consider it, and go back to the new employer trying to get them to raise their offer, that's unlikely to be met well. So take some time to establish what the truth is for you on this matter. 

What I find works, with employees just as with children, is right in the title of your question: expectations. There are people out there who, as you say, just don't get certain aspects of the workplace. Telling them explicitly what you expect from them can work wonders. 

can serve everyone's purposes just fine. Alternatively, if you don't do that kind of stuff after work, try: 

the person or you gets someone in the client org to agree to give you logs on request. the person triggers the bug. They take screenshots for you. If there's an exception dialog, they click for More Details and they copy and paste everything they get. If there's a report or other save-able exportable asset that demonstrates the problem (eg the bad number) they save or export it and give it to you. the person or you asks for logs covering the time that just happened. you investigate armed with this info. 

It sounds to me like that middle shift is more being "on call on site" than working. The expectation is that she will sleep all night. Once in a while she will be woken. She gets paid a small amount to be on call, and -- over time -- the amount she actually is awake and working in a week of such shifts should be quite small. If that's how this plays out - once a week or so she is woken, up for an hour, and then can sleep again - it may be a tolerable situation and one for which the compensation is adequate. But if she is woken every night, and has to struggle for hours each night dealing with a patient in crisis, and has no chance to catch that sleep back up again, clearly, that is very different. She'll be exhausted and at great risk of making an error that could harm a patient. Your local Citizens Advice Bureau can tell you whether "on call on site" shifts are in fact legal or not. Her colleagues can tell her what the on call shifts are truly like. If being woken is rare, and she likes the rest of the job, she may decide to accept having an unpleasant night from time to time. If being woken is the norm, and these back-to-backs are a common sight on the rota, then it would seem, legal or no, that the fit is not good and she would do well to look for a job with a more human schedule. 

It's possible you can work out which of these situations applies. The most efficient way of doing so is simply to ask your boss. You could have done so when agreeing to go on the course: 

So, let's take the two things that are in your control. I hear you saying that existing running software may be suboptimal. Something better might be out there or within your power to build. And you're not wrong. But let's phrase their culture another way: existing is a feature. Having been shipped is a feature. Working software rarely has negative value. Depending on your job, putting up with suboptimal (but existing) software may be the appropriate choice. Developing the perfect software is not zero cost, and the improvement between the crap you are getting by with and the gorgeous stuff that could be built is not always greater than the cost of building the perfect software. Rather than focusing on the fantastic thing you want to build, can you look for the good in what is there? Can you get happier about what you're using or maintaining? Failing that, can you take a good solid look at your job and your responsibilities? Apparently, you're not the architect who decides how things are designed. And you're not the stakeholder who decides what gets funded and what doesn't. So, what are you? What does it mean to be really good at what you are? Are you the person who knows the old system and how to keep patching and tweaking it to work in the new world? Are you the person who writes addons and plugins and accessories and scripts for the old system to handle the new world? What's your role? You know what your employers don't want from you - your opinion about how to rewrite everything and redesign everything. But get clear with yourself about what they do want. And then set yourself the goal of being amazing at that. If you can do either (or better still, both) of those, you'll be genuinely happier. And you'll also be way better positioned to look for a new job, should that be the best next step.