Tidal forces limit the stability. Example: $URL$ It's easier if you set every orbiter far away from the orbited, but by setting large distances, that limits how many levels of nesting you can do. There are complicated star systems with like 6 or 7 suns, but they aren't nested in the way you suggest. Pluto is a 5 body system but it's also quite far from the sun and it stays far from all the outer planets, and it's got 2 inner bodies (Pluto and Charon) and 3 outer, smaller bodies. Pluto is also quite far from any large gravitational bodies. If Pluto orbited one of the planets, it's 5 body system wouldn't be stable. 

While the relativistic speeds and time dilation might change things a bit, a flyby is still a flyby. They would either fly past each other, the dense objects would change direction as a result, but the combined kinetic energy and momentum would remain constant. 2nd option is they enter into orbit around each other. Pretty much the same with any 2 massive objects passing near each other. 

Until we actually find out what gravity is, the safe answer here is that we don't know, but it's probably a wave and a particle. Most (perhaps all) fundamental particles in quantum physics are waves and particles. Light for example, Electrons too, though we might think of an electron as a particle, it's wave properties are easily demonstrated, and wave properties of protons can be demonstrated as well. There's a ton of stuff that can be googled on the wave-particle duality. Here's one. It's unclear exactly what fundamental particles "are" so saying a fundamental particle is "this or that" is a bit iffy since we can't see them. We can only study how they behave. Gravity, if it's a fundamental particle, which it probably is, it should be both a wave and a particle, and a field. I know, that's a little hard to think about. We don't get to have many tangible answers in quantum physics. 

As for deviations from Kepler's law. Mercury is close enough to the sun that relativity caused an observed deviation from it's predicted elliptical orbit. Late 19th and early 20th century astronomers tried to explain that by adding a planet (Vulcan), but they couldn't find that theoretical planet. Einstein's laws later explained Mercury's observed deviation. Also, planets pull on each other and that's been known at least since Newton's time, as he did a fair bit of work on it but never solved it to his satisfaction. Earth, for example, speeds up if Venus and Jupiter are ahead of it, and slows down when they are behind it. These are called orbital perturbations and are simple in principal, quite complicated mathematically. An unexplained deviation in Uranus' elliptical orbit lead to the discovery of the planet Neptune. That's not a flaw in Kepler's law. His law is so exact that when a deviation to an elliptical orbit is observed, we know there's another gravitational body out there and we even know about where to look. 

I think your initial question is a good one, but the text gets a bit more jumbled and covers a few different points. 

We're not even sure the Galilean moons will still be orbiting Jupiter in 5 billion years. They probably will, but it's hard to say with certainty. It's difficult to model their orbital stability over that long a time-frame. But in the spirit of your question, it takes much more than oceans and land to make a planet or moon livable. You also need atmosphere, proper gravity (Jupiter's moons have very low gravity) and the right mix of elements. If, somehow, one of the Galilean moons had continents, it's "ocean water" would be full of ammonia and other elements and we'd find it both stinky and likely toxic. But the answer to your question is no, there are no continents. The ice/water to silicate and metal-oxide ratio for the Galilean moons is much too high for it to ever form continents, and even if it could, a moon that light would have some difficulty retaining it's oceans. Some would boil of into an atmosphere and with that low gravity, the atmosphere would be stripped from the moon over time. From a practical standpoint, there aren't any good options for mankind to move to in 1-4 billion years. Terra-forming mars is possible but difficult and only a temporary solution. In time the Sun would get too hot for Mars as well. Titan is an interesting option because it has about the right atmospheric pressure. That's actually very useful, though living on Titan would be kind of dreary. It's under a constant thick blanket of clouds. The good news is, there's a lot of time to find a solution and living in space doesn't require living on the surface. Living under the surface of an icy body (like Pluto) would be workable too. In fact, there's several advantages to living inside an icy world rather than trying to construct one where we live on the surface. Much less work to set it up. If someone wants to move this to world-building, feel free, but I felt the question was asked in good faith. 

Short answer. Pluto's rotation is 100% governed by Charon, or, more accurately, the Pluto-Charon system. The sun is irrelevant to it's rotation. Small point to add. Pluto's rotation is pretty much governed by the Pluto-Charon orbit. If Charon moves closer to Pluto, Pluto's rotation will correspondingly increase. If Charon moves further away, Pluto's rotation will decrease. That's how tidal locking works. I answered the question in regards to the orbit changing, not the rotation changing, but in a tidally locked system the rotation period follows the orbital period. Long answer: 

Two star systems: $URL$ - not exactly what you asked, but I think it's as close as real systems will get. The example you give, 2 planets orbiting each other is easy, two objects will tend to orbit each other but when you have 3 objects, it gets a bit more complicated, unless the 3rd one is distant and orbits the two from a distance. 3 body orbits tend to be unstable unless you have them kind of locked in (sun/earth/moon) with the moon around the earth and the earht-moon around the sun, or in synch (Sun/Neptune/Pluto) - where Pluto and Neptune are in orbital resonance. Neither of those would be stable if the sun wasn't so dominant. There are exotic mathematical models for 3 object orbits but they are improbable in the actual universe cause they aren't very stable. $URL$ and $URL$ 

Toxic to whom? If life evolved on a planet, they would likely adapt to whatever elements were in the air. Oxygen used to be toxic to early life when it started to collect in the oceans once the dissolved Iron has been used up. Early one-celled life first protected themselves from Oxygen, then, later, began to use it. 

It depends what kind of atmosphere. Pluto is cold enough (even at it's hottest) that CO2, NH3 and CH4 are mostly solids. (look up boiling temperature of each and compare to Pluto's temperature if you like). There's some photo-evaporation, and perhaps some equilibrium for the heavier gases, but Pluto's primary atmosphere is Nitrogen, which has a lower boiling/freezing temperature. (the atmosphere is too thin for it to exist as a liquid). Based on this chart and Jeans escape, Pluto would need an escape velocity of about 2.5 km/s (roughly the mass of Io, or about 7 times it's current mass) to retain it's lighter gases like CH4 and NH3 as well as it's nitrogen. (Nitrogen would require a slightly lower escape velocity). Very roughly speaking, escape velocity can be tied to mass. If it was closer to the sun and hotter, it would need to be more massive. This is, of-course, a ballpark answer. With no magnetic field, pluto would still lose some atmosphere to the solar wind, but that far from the sun, that loss would be slow. It wouldn't lose much atmosphere to heat-escape (or Jeans-escape), like it does now. That's not to say Pluto would have a significant atmosphere if it had 7 or 8 times it's current mass but it would likely have a fair bit more. Pluto's problem is that it's cold enough that much of it's atmosphere would freeze. If it could get a thick enough atmosphere to maintain a permanent greenhouse gas effect, then it might maintain a real atmosphere. Again the minimum mass required for that would be in the 7-8 times it's current mass range, but the atmosphere would also need to be sustained and not freeze on it's surface. Significantly more mass and a higher escape velocity would make retaining an atmosphere much more likely. The colder the outer edge of a planet's atmosphere is, the lighter the planet (or moon or dwarf-planet) can be and still retain an atmosphere but there's also the problem of too cold and the atmosphere will freeze into ice on the surface. Titan is a good example of this. It's far enough away from the sun that it can maintain an atmosphere, mostly formed by out-gassing from it's icy surface. A few billion years ago Jupiter's 4 Galilean moons may have had atmospheres similar to Titan, lost over time due to heat from the sun and perhaps also from Jupiter's very active radiation belts. 

I don't think this should be voted down. It's a perfectly fine question to ask about trying to understand a concept. In one sense, the two dimensional surface stretching downward into a 3rd dimension can be entirely replicated, but impossible to draw with 3 dimensions stretching down into a 4th dimension. We can only see 3 dimensions so visualizing a 4th dimension is very difficult for most of us, but mathematically it's relatively simple to do. Instead of 3 coordinates (X,Y and Z), (a 3d Cartesian coordinate system), you have 4 coordinates, (X,Y,Z and W). Where a 3 dimensional "rubber sheet", X,Y,Z stretches it into W space, similar to how the 2d rubber sheet X,Y stretches into into Z.