I like the baking soda comment. Depending on your humidity, you might be developing a mildew smell, which can also develop in cycling jackets if you ride in the rain frequently, too. If you have a warm sunny day, and can turn the bags inside out, sunning them can also be effective. If your bag gets damp (inside) frequently, dry it out promptly and wad up newspaper in it, and that should absorb moisture from a bag (works for gloves and shoes.) Soaking in a saline and vinegar solution can cut mildew solution. You can add garden herbs like sage or rosemary leaves. If this is not effective, I would move up to some Simple Green solution next. If those solutions are ineffective, you could also trest a small section of the bag with a TSP (trisodium phosphate). TSP is harsh so use gloves, safety glasses. This is probably safer than washing with a bleach solution, but doing a test on a section to determine if how it treats your material. 

Bag gallery link I haven't tested them (yet) but seems like a very good choice if you're looking for something durable! 

If your frame isn't pierced through, I wouldn't bother with it much. Apply some paint of correct type (I'm no expert, consult your local home improvement/paint shop) to stop further corrosion. You might want to remove the existing rust with a fine sandpaper before putting the paint on (again, refer to the manual of the paint or consult the shop). I think there are even some special paints for fixing car finishes available in car shops but that might be a little too expensive. The important thing is to prevent direct contact between the bare steel and water / air humidity if you don't want the rusting to progress. 

As it seems you've found, since there is no way to compare Beginner A and Beginner B to one another, there is only one way to find out: give it a try. That said, maybe not every day at first. 

Riding everywhere in one gear is usually not a good idea, unless you're on a SS/fixie. And SS aren't a good idea everywhere (like where I live, for example, an island with almost no flat spaces at all), but the gearings they have are usually somewhere in the mid-range, where you can speed up relatively quickly, won't blow yourself out cruising, but won't be winning any races, either. Heaviest gearings may contribute to knee problems, but the much more immediate concern is that it makes riding a bike more of a chore than it should be. I live in a hilly place and I'm nearly constantly changing gears, and when I go someplace flatter I still find myself changing gears all the time based on wind. The only time I don't is sidewalk riding, 4th-grade style. So... if your friend wants to ride 4th grade style, that's his issue (and his knees, if the medical thing is true). For people who spend a good bit of time on their bikes (commuting in my case) riding in the biggest gear everywhere sounds like a bad idea. 

Are there any bike mounted bags for a camera, that could safely hold my Sony NEX-5? I'd be happy enough if the camera fitted in with the 16mm pancake lens (as most of the shots are landscapes anyway). However, I was only able to find bags for cell phones or very slim compact cameras. The camera dimensions without lens are per spec mm (WxHxD); my own measurements give cca mm. With the lens mounted the depth is about 62mm and the height just slightly bigger. Sony NEX-5 with 16mm pancake $URL$ full size photo Here's a top photo to get the idea of the thickness: link. I'd like a bag that I could mount on the handlebar, allowing a quick access without having to step off the bike for a quick shot. Or are there some solutions I could modify to my needs (more or less easily)? I'm open to your suggestions! Thanks. 

I have not found that tire size, or tire tread has made significant difference to me, I have learned you cannot ride on a snowy shoulder, you want to ride on the least snow or ice possible, otherwise you might just slide into the gully. Studs don't help with snow, deep tread might. For plain old wet weather, I have had no trouble with road tires, I didn't get any advantage from knobbies, in fact I replaced my MTB tires with road tires. Good luck with your commute! 

I suspect you might have either a loose headset or handlebar stem. I would take it back to where you bought it and describe the problem. If it's recently purchased, they would probably fix it under warranty. 

This is really cheap and provides the same exercise as any other bike recommendation, but won't run more than $100 or so (or whatever your currency is -- mine was Y12,000). Since your bike is cheap you can do fun stuff without financial risk, like learning how to take it apart, fitting out some cheapish clipless/push pedals (like these: $URL$ my favorite for souping up a city bike, cruiser or BSO), new saddle styles and seatpost lengths, or whatever. You'll find out about chains wearing out, the difference between a comfortable tire pressure and a fast tire pressure, how hot breaks can get, how strong your legs can get from sprinting up short steep hills, how cramped/comfortable different seat/handlebar configurations can be, and a million other weird things you just can't know about cycling until you've spent a few hundred hours in the saddle. All without blowing a small fortune to satisfy the vanity of the "real" cyclists who seem to constantly forget that the basic feature set on the lowest MTB BSO today blows away the most extravagant features available on professional bikes in the 80's. MTBs also have good gearing for heavy folks to start on -- until you become no-so-heavy. You don't need shocks and all the cool gizmos on newer MTBs if you're going to be on the road trying to get your heart rate up, though -- so give the shiny new stuff with the $4,000 pricetags a pass. For those who say a cheap bike won't last long, I'm proof that this is simply not true -- I've got 3 BSOs, two of which are nearing 10,000km, all of which are demonstrating vastly superior drivetrain durability than my (enormously) more expensive road and crossbikes. Most of the price difference is defined in terms of weight, not features (except in extreme cases). Just about everything on a bike is wear-outable anyway, so as bits break either upgrade old components (and learn a huge amount about how bikes work in the process) or buy new bikes if your budget can afford it (and still learn a lot). 

I have a Trek 7200 (Alpha aluminum frame) and it has two water bottle holder mountings, the top braze-on on the seat tube seems to have broken from over-tightening and has sunk into the frame. These braze-ons are recessed into the body of the frame tubes, as if they were somehow attached from the inside. Is it possible to repair this braze-on? Is it something some super-glue could help with, or am I looking at a permanent wound? 

I've ridden through two winters in the Pacific Northwest, and while our winters might not get as frigid, I have formed similar conclusions to our fellows, but I would like to frame my answer from more of a preparedness point of view. 

One of my most useful bicycles is my 58cm 700c Xtracycle based on a Novara Xpresso cyclocross style frame. Lately, as the kids are getting bigger and my back isn't getting any younger: I crave a much lower top bar. I would consider a used mixte frame, a step-through frame, or other really low diamond frame. Recommendations for sturdy and faithful frame models appreciated. Ability to handle 3 rings and 8 cogs plus a chain stay bridge preferred. These areas would help me evaluate the frames I might find: