All tests are biased All tests can be gamed IQ changes over the course of one's life, especially in childhood and adolescences (where most testing would tend to occur.) IQ is influenced by nutrition, education, chemical exposure and drugs. This means one group could suppress the voting power of another group by physical means. An additional bonus is that by suppressing the other group's intelligence, the power-group blunts any competition. Smart people can make really dumb decisions. Groupthink, echo chambers, confirmation bias and the like are all common plagues of smart people. There is no system that can't be manipulated by a motivated actor with resources. Political power is a highly-addictive drug for which junkies will spend their life pursuing. 

I would say that you need something very precise to prevent harmful genetic mutations. Nano-scale robots programmed to modify the DNA of the germline cells, rather than just the somatic, passed by mosquitos. 

The short answer is, although Stack Exchange is wonderfully designed and extremely useful, it is not a model for utopia because there is no such thing as Utopia. There can not be any utopian society without unlimited resources and information. Since humanity is limited in knowledge and power, that can't happen. There can be no utopia because one man's heaven is another's hell. When people try to create Utopia, they create a special kind of living hell and millions die. Names like Pol Pot, Stalin, Mao, Kim Il Sung, and Hitler were made famous by trying to achieve a utopia. The dreamer says "If we just would eliminate these people here, then we will be in Utopia!" 

Normal diplomacy won't work with the dictator of NK, whose people revere him as a god-king. The only long-term way of dealing with it is regime change. Isolation Cut off NK from all other nations. This deprives it of the resources it needs in order to continue its missile program while increasing the pressure on the regime from within and without. Project Strength The brutal dictator must know that aggression will be met in kind, preferably by drastic, overwhelming force (You punch me, I shoot you, and burn down your house.) This will help him moderate his impulses. You launch a single missile, your country will be a glowing wasteland. Undermine His Rule Send covert operatives across the border, smuggling food, medicine, radios, portable TVs and books. Spend lots of money broadcasting Radio-free NK, with propaganda extolling the benefits of the free society of SK. TV is broadcast to the starving NK people showing the abundant and cheap food of SK. The Real Solution All of the above won't work. The ruler won't leave his throne unless pried out by violence or the threat thereof. It has been this way throughout history. Without taking direct action, you can only slow him down. The ruler sees a strong nuclear deterrent as the key to getting everything he wants because nobody threatens a state with the bomb. The most non-violent way to dispose of a dictator is to remove the dictator. A coup would work, but that is bloody, expensive, difficult, and hard to control. Direct military involvement is also bloody, expensive, and hard to limit. Bombing facilities risk escalating the conflict into a shooting conflict. Seal Team Six breaking into the leader's bedroom one night, however, could easily solve the problem. With the leader removed (whether removed means from power or from life), the current regime would topple (dear leader executed anyone who could possibly lead in his place. Dictators don't last long if they aren't proactive like that.) 

First, that's not flight, that's gliding. Without some mechanism to generate lift, i.e. by flapping, flight by the use of rib extensions is basically impossible. They can be extended, but in Draco the wings are fixed. However, you can possibly develop some form of "false" ribs, by employing a novel joint above the ribcage, perhaps attached by cartilage and ligaments to lengthened neural spines. This would allow you to anchor "pull-up" muscles to the longer neural spines. To get around needing deep breastbones for the chest to anchor muscles to pull the wings down (take a look at a pigeon skeleton, their keels are huge relatively speaking), they could have anatomy that automatically forces the rib-wing, once extended to want to fold forwards (have the tips meet in front of the creature) so that the major force would be from the spinal process muscles pulling the wings back and open and anatomy pulling them closed. Sort of like a clap, where the effort is in you drawing your hands back, not in bringing them together. Also, unless the creature is very short-legged, I don't think you're going to have enough body length, even if you took the rib wings from behind the shoulders to the hip to give you an adequate wing to mass ratio for flight or gliding, a human torso is too short to fit a wing that can support the heavy head and legs, the legs make the whole thing too back-heavy. If you are okay with "rib_like_" structures, you might be better off attaching the extensions to be above the spine themselves. They can still use the neural spines to anchor muscle, but the down-stroke force would have to be generated by muscles pulling the ribs downwards. And you end up with a flier kind of like this: 

You have something going for these aliens in that they can see, if they and your humans can see the same things, then they can ask each other what things are by pointing at the unknown. Being able to read a point would be a plus, but it's not guaranteed unless your sophonts exist in groups where they have to direct each other (some dogs can learn to follow a point, chimpanzees have trouble with the concept). Your basic case for mutual language should probably be looking at Helen Keller. Helen Keller was 19 months old when she had an illness that left her deaf and blind. Originally, they were trying to teach her words by spelling them onto the palm of her hand, but since she had no knowledge of what the symbols meant they obviously didn't stick. The key breakthrough in Helen's learning came when her teacher spelled the word 'water' on her palm while pouring water over her hand. Apparently, that was the one word Helen has started to learn as baby, so with that one connection made, that the spelling of w-a-t-e-r meant 'cool, textureless, flavorless liquid that I can drink' she could then separate what was written on her palm as "water" or something else. But that first word bridge was the key. This is where being able to point might help, your aliens can see. Your humans can point to water, or pour a cup of the stuff over their hands and sign water. The aliens can then reciprocate with their sign for water and a mutual vocabulary can be built up, in sort of a meeting-half-way fashion. The human offering their own sign, the aliens giving theirs, the human or alien trying to mimic the simpler sign. (This can then be tested by setting out several objects, signing for one and having the other party then gesture to the object. You can then have perceptual fun by throwing complexity layers at it, what is more water a puddle on a table or water in a cup? If the addition of 'cup' changes the meaning of 'water' the alien will point at the puddle. A human might hand you the cup, as the puddle is not water, exactly, but is a wet table.) 

How do governments come to power in this world? If it's through any kind of elective democracy, you can take a cue from recent events and pull off an audacious maneuver—run for president yourself, then given your corporation a bailout. Alternately, if you yourself are too highly visible to make this work, pick a lower-level executive who is deeply loyal to the corporation, bankroll his or her candidacy from behind the scenes, and have your stooge ride to power on populist pandering and revelations of corruption among the current elite. (You will, of course, have evidence of this corruption, since you're the one who paid the bribes to being with.) Actually, just having a president in power is too little—to really make it work, you should bankroll stooges to run for office at all levels of the government, all across the country. It would be nice if you could get your puppets into all the major political parties so that any opposition has no single home to gather in. You won't have to bother bribing these stooges, because they're already loyal to you. For maximum effect, you should hire one of those pathetic humanities majors, who are all homeless and starving in the ghettos of this cyberpunk world, to write a manifesto for your "movement". Use your money to spread this manifesto everywhere, but make it look like it spontaneously erupted from the grassroots. A little astroturfing will start a bandwagon effect among everyday Joe Sixpack types; they'll all get on board and support your "movement". You can leverage any media presence you might have—a few television personalities could do wonders for your manifesto. Think of how effective people like Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, and Rachael Maddow are at spreading political ideas in the real world—if someone like that adopts a manifesto, no matter how ludicrous the ideas in it are, people will consider it. Once your manifesto is out there, have all your stooges start quoting from it and insisting that it represents "the real will of the people" or some similar nonsense. Even if no one listening knows anyone who actually buys this garbage, they'll assume that your stooges are telling the truth and there is in fact a group of people who believe in it out there somewhere. Your "movement" should rail against the massive increase in police power represented by the special Police Agency. See if you can start a few demonstrations and get the police to violently suppress them. Then have your stooges go out and criticize this massive overreach of government power. You can also stage "accidents" for particularly troublesome opponents. Some whiny do-gooder activist opposes bailing you out? Just arrange for a "random psychopath" to show up at her rally with ten guns and start shooting. Have all your candidates get up on the stage and lament the tragedy. Once the government is full of your stooges and your "movement" has taken hold, you go to the government pleading for an end to the violence and admitting that your funds are running low. You agree to sign a treaty where you stop funding criminal acts and stop killing police officers, in return for a bailout which will let you reorganize so you don't need to rely on crime anymore. You should also probably tell the government your corporation will collapse without this bailout, and fund a few corrupt economists to make models that predict economic disaster if your corporation fails. Your stooges will argue on your behalf, and the people in your "movement" will support you. Once the treaty is signed, you keep on funding criminal acts. Just do it discreetly. Use your bailout money to set up some shell corporations that can launder the money for you. If anyone in the government complains that you aren't living up to your treaty, have your stooges shout them down, and if that doesn't work, discredit them with a scandal or bump them off. A "terrorist cell" or "foreign crime syndicate" are ways to accomplish the latter, while an ill-advised night with an "underage girl" could accomplish the former. If your stooges and your "movement" somehow get discredited, well, no one knew it was you funding them. After all, campaign donations are completely anonymous in this corrupt cyberpunk world, right? So just run a new class of stooges and start a new "movement", and you'll be good.