Deadlifting does not train all muscles. For starters, it is a "pull" exercise which means it hits the muscles involved with pulling or lifting the most: lats and lower back. This leaves the "push" muscles including the chest to do nothing but stabilize. While stabilizing is important, it's not as much work as pulling. As a result of these potential muscle imbalances, the back muscles would assert more influence on the shape of the spine than the chest muscles. I'm guessing this would result in the shoulders being pulled back more than usual. That being said, deadlifts ARE one of the best exercises (plural) you can do. For best results, do them with squats and bench press. Ideally while taking a multi and lifting heavy. 

Lift heavy! If you can do 8 reps of a bicep exercise, you need more weight. If you can still lift your toothbrush the next morning, you need to add more weight. Since you know a lot of exercises, I'll skip that part. Here are some different way to do the exercises that may help: Positives, negatives, and statics 

Because your legs are the biggest muscle groups in your body and have the greatest potential for burning calories, you need to find a exercise that primarily involves them. Walking lunges would be a good one, doesn't require much space. Although, if you're planning on doing a lot of walking I would avoid this as you can get quite sore from DOMS. If I were in your situation, I would take a pilates DVD with me and do it. It's amazing how much you work at even a simple pilates workout. 

There is one major problem with sleeping in a sitting position - gravity. When you lie down both your blood pressure and heart rate decrease. This allows your body to relax more and, perhaps, increase the rate at which you recover from illness or injury. I'd imagine if you're body didn't have to work as hard getting blood to your brain while you're asleep, you might sleep better. $URL$ Everything that goes up must come down and your head is propped awfully high on your shoulders. Maybe I'm a light sleeper, but having my head bob around makes it hard to sleep, not to mention limbs flopping around when muscle relaxing REM kicks in or just loosing your balance completely and falling out of your chair. I think I'll stick to lying down. 

First of all, what is your diet like? Are you getting a well rounded diet with fruits, vegetables, and lots of protein rich lean meat? If not your body will never grow regardless of what exercises you do. If you are eating all those things, remember that you'll need to eat more if you want your body to use the calories for building muscle and not just surviving. If you want to get big and don't want to go to the gym and don't own weights then you should go work on a farm. Bail hay, lift horse feed, and pull stumps out of the ground. I don't mean literally, of course, but you need to find exercises like those to perform. They all have a couple things in common: 

If you want to target the lats specifically, try switching to pulldowns instead of rows. Rows are more of a compound exercise whereas pulldowns, especially wide grip, will target the lats. You can also try wide grip pullups for the same effect. If you're simply going for aesthetics, this should be fine, but realize that you may end up causing muscle imbalances that can cause posture and other health problems down the road. It's always a good idea to choose compound exercises in order to make sure all the muscles are exercised to avoid injury. My suggestion would be to stick with the rows, but add the pulldowns to target the specific muscles you want. Don't neglect your chest either - exercise both the pull and push muscles to avoid back problems. 

High fructose corn syrup has gone through processing to turn some of the glucose into fructose which makes it about 3x sweeter. The big difference is how the body metabolizes and stores the two. Fructose goes right to the belly which gives you a better chance of heart attack and stroke. Some studies have even found trace amounts of mercury in high fructose corn syrup. 

Strokes like freestyle, backstroke, and breaststroke use your abs, glutes, biceps, triceps, quads, and hams. It's basically a full body workout which is excellent cardio. Like Eelvex said, switch it up. If you do the same exercises, in or out of the pool, your body will adapt and you wont be burning as many calories as you potentially could. 

You cannot do both these routines at the same time, it would be way too much. You can alternate them however. Do a 3 days split for a couple months, then switch to a full body routine for a while, then back again. This will challenge your body in different ways and will keep you from getting use to your exercises and plateauing. 

The most important thing you could probably do is go to bed at the same time and wake up at the same time every day - even on the weekends. This let's your body get use to the rhythm of your days and you wont want to sleep longer than you need. A trick you can use is to turn on all the lights in your bedroom as soon as your alarm goes off. I suffered from the same thing you did and I read that, by turning on all the lights, it tricks your body into thinking it's morning. Especially helpful if you get up before the sun like I do. 

Nope, it's completely impossible to target and reduce fat in one spot on your body. The only way to lose fat in your thighs is to lose fat everywhere. On the other hand, you can target and improve the look of a specific body part. For your thighs I would suggest squats (but I suggest those for just about anything). Simply sprinting would help the shapeliness of your legs overall. 

If you're getting a rash or hives from your thighs rubbing together or against the seat, there are several things you can do to help it: 

First, a word of advice. Losing weight is not something you do for a while and then stop without reverting back to your once chubby self. I hate when people say they're "going on a diet" because this implies that they will eventually "go off" the diet. Losing weight, staying fit, and keeping healthy is not a temporary thing you can do and have it stick, it's a constant commitment to that lifestyle. From your description, you've got only the basic understanding of what it is you're doing right to lose weight. My first suggestion is to start reading everything you can get your hands on concerning healthy living. There are thousands of websites devoted to getting fit and staying there. Many are bogus or trying to sell you something, but you'll easily recognize and disregard those soon enough. Don't be intimidated by a gym. There are a lot of machines for you to use and for a first timer it can be overwhelming. Go during a non-busy time and ask a trainer who's not currently with a client or anyone else on staff how to use the equipment. They are there to keep you as a happy and paying customer. They might give you a hard sell to sign a personal trainer contract, but don't feel pressured. On the other hand, a trainer could be just the thing you need. 

The answer to your question is yes. Yes, you can do a 2/3/4/5 day split each week. And, yes, you can do a full body workout 2-3 times a week. In fact, I would suggest doing both - just not at the same time. Most people who go to a gym will do a split routine. Usually a 3 day split involves: 

Also consider not working out almost every day. Most people use a 3-day split to make sure they get enough rest. Good luck! 

Take a dumbell bar and tie one end of a length of rope to it. Tie the other end to one of your weight disks. Hold the dumbell bar out in front of you, one end in each hand, and rotate it so the rope wraps around the bar. The weight should rise with the rope creating resistance. Twist the bar one way until the weight touches it, then reverse the direction all the way down and back up again. Repeat until your forearms burn like fire. 

Eat a healthy, well balanced diet. If you're already doing that then add a daily multi vitamin. Still getting sick? Seek the advice of a doctor. For the past 15 years or so of my life I've gotten sinus infections and strep throat every year like clockwork around the later part of February. Last year I decided to go to a doctor due to asthma-like symptoms. He refereed me to an asthma and allergy specialist that told me I had asthma and pretty sever allergies. I started following his medical advice and, so far, haven't been sick this year. My sister, like you, was always getting strep throat, bronchitis, and other upper respiratory infections. A couple years ago she and her doctor had had enough and looked into it. Turns out she needed to have a tonsillectomy. Afterwards she's been healthy and happy. My point is, diet usually isn't enough to fix being ill. It will always help you stay healthy, but often times getting sick is out of your control. I'll say it again, discuss this with your doctor. 

Using an exercise ball as a desk chair is not a magic bullet. It will not work for all people and may actually hurt some. There is no replacement for strength training if you want a stronger core (including back muscles). Some articles I've read (I couldn't find a source other than the article themselves) suggest that you may be compressing your spine and discs while sitting on an exercise ball due to the constant muscles strain caused by trying to keep yourself balanced. These articles and other also suggest there is not good replacement for a fully ergonomic desk chair. Like running barefoot or weight lifting, if you're going to switch to using a exercise ball as a chair you should transition slowly to allow your body to get use to it. I have personally used an exercise ball as a chair and loved it. I only stopped when my cats decided it was good fun to deflate the ball when I was sitting on it. 

What you are feeling is normal. Any time you do a new exercise, or even an old exercise in a new way, you will be pushing your muscles past the point where they are comfortable and making them sore. For the most part, this is lumped into the term Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS). For some people, the presence of DOMS becomes a goal or a indication of a good workout because, as you do the same exercise over and over again, your muscles get use to the activity and no longer need to adapt. As a result, serious lifters will try to change up their workout to re-engage their muscles - usually by increasing the weight. For you specifically, you are sore because a) you are doing an exercise in a new way and b) you are engaging the largest muscle system in your body - your quads and glutes. The good news is that this will pass. Further, you will probably never feel this sore again. If you still hurt, take a hot bath, give yourself massage, and then go for a walk. The soreness will subside on its own in a couple days. 

I know your question mentions this is not about food, but I think you have a fundamental misunderstanding. If you cannot even eat a maintenance diet, you should not be burning even more calories on exercise. An alternate question title could have been: "My car has run out of gas, how do I keep driving?" Obviously this question would be absurd. But that's exactly what you're asking about your own body. If you cannot eat, you need to find out why. What is your diet? Do you like the foods you are eating? Are they calorie rich or mostly water? How often are you trying to eat? Can you eat small amounts and more often? Could you drink a mass gainer drink? In my opinion, if you cannot eat enough food to gain weight you should not be exercising at all. If you continue to exercise, you will just lose weight, which seems like the opposite of what your goal is. 

While teaching you how to do each of those exercises is somewhat out of the scope of this answer, I encourage you to read up on each and learn to do them safely. Many exercises like them can be down with very little to no weight. You can also almost always substitute a real world item for the dumbbell/barbell. 

You are suppose to kick your elbows out like that, it helps "lock" the bar against your back and is proper form. If you're getting sore, perhaps you're just creating too much tension. I know when I do certain exercises my back get bruised because I'm unconsciously squeezing everything together. My suggest would be to strip the weight off the bar and work on your form until you can do it without any unusual discomfort. Then slowly build back up to your working weight with the same form. 

Wrist curls do wonders. One exercise is like a preacher curl, but instead of moving your entire forearm, just move your hands at the wrist. Another is just the opposite, with your palms facing down and hand bending up. In reality, though, the forearms are hit by most exercises that hit the biceps and triceps. Even if you don't think you're working them, you are in reality. 

Some people may say the best time to stretch is right after exercising. Your muscles are warmed up allow you to get a nice deep stretch. Stretching afterwards will begin the process of relaxing your muscles, something I find really helpful after lifting heavy weights. During my years of martial arts I have found that stretching after a workout will allow me more flexibility during the next class than I would have had just stretching before. 

If you have a hunch, it could be from a muscle imbalance. If your pectoral muscles are over developed it could pull your shoulders forward causing you to lower your head and arch your back slightly. To correct this, you should work your trapezoid muscles with rowing exercises. 

I'm assuming you mean anaerobic hear rate. Training in this heart rate (80-90%) will train your lactic acid system. In this heart rate, you stop using as much fat for energy and start using the glycogen stored in your muscle. Burning glycogen will create lactic acid in your muscles which creates the soreness you feel when lifting heavy object repeatedly or sprinting. 

Wake up after a good nights rest Walk myself into the kitchen and cook a healthy breakfast Pack a healthy lunch to eat while at work Hit the gym/dojo on the way home from work Eat a healthy dinner and don't snack too much before going to bed Get to bed early enough to get a good night's rest 

The bottom line is that steroids are not a magic button you can press to become swole. Even if you're on steroids you still have to put the time in at the gym or on the track to achieve your goal. Will you get there faster and go further than you would without steroids? Certainly. 

These are the questions you should ask yourself if you want to know if you had a good workout. Don't worry about what the scale (you can gain weight, but look better) or the calipers (you can increase fat, but get stronger) say, use your own mental scale to judge success. 

The most important thin you could do is get up and move around. A lot. Move your legs, don't let the blood and water pool in your ankles. Heavy exercises that make you sweat a lot such as squats and dead lifts. If you don't weight lift then get out and run or bike hard. If you have access to a sauna, us it. As for your diet, cut back on carbs. They are hydrophilic which means they soak up water. And drink lots of water. Contrary to what you might expect, your body wont hold onto water if you're not dehydrated. Try drinking a half gallon or more of water each day. 

Different Grips If you're using a bar to do your bicep exercises there are three good grips you can use: 

While I agree that the correct form is required, it sounds like you are fixating on that fact and overcompensating on a few things. For example, you are falling backwards because your center of gravity is behind your heals. I would guess that you're worrying too much about your knees not going over your toes that you're deliberately leaning backwards. This isn't obvious in your first 10 reps because your muscles are strong enough to compensate, but when they get tired your form suffers. Some trainers are really good at their job, some just have a certificate and a bank account. I would suggest asking some of the other squatters at the gym to watch you do squats and get their feedback. They at least know how to do them and want to do them somewhere other than the smith machine.