Bottle Caps aren't an effective currency To be an effective currency it must hold value which is one reason why the American dollar and the British pound are so prolific. The reason a currency must hold value is because: If I sold you a chicken today for 3 wibbleys and tomorrow I couldn't buy a chicken for 300 wibbleys I effectively traded something useful for nothing. The only reason we can support a currency is to say this useful item has a set value that will be the same '~over time~'. Then what makes currency advantageous is by saying all these useful items and services have a set value which currency can be used to represent and store that value facilitating trade. (A bit imprecise but this is a very large subject go read it) As im sure you realize at this point this isn't quite how our world works. which brings us to inflation is when you increase the amount of currency thus devaluing it. If there is suddenly more currency then its rarity decreases, suddenly the chicken goes from 3 wibbleys to 30 wibbleys. Inflation can happen on the other side as well (though by another name). If suddenly you had 300 chickens to the point no one wants them any more, the price of your chicken starts to go down to the point you can have 1 chicken for 1 wibbley. Currency is subject to the same force of supply and demand. Inflation is the same problem you have, a currency that could be easily forged or found in a shipping container by the thousands would be subject to erratic and controllable inflation. Anyways, as to your original question. The simple solution is to have denominations. Maybe coke caps are like 1 dollar and a Crush orange cream soda cap is like 1000 (because its more rare). You could also have banking systems. Promissory notes between banking branches were a huge solution to personal transporting of large sums of money in the medieval ages. 

In order to get blue soil First I would start with a copper rich dirt. Copper is excellent, its a relatively light semi harmless metal that when oxidized turns blue. Like others have posted: 

I honestly don't understand why this means they have to have 6 appendages, adding a functional hand to the wrist of the wing would be more efficient but if that's your goal.... The key aspect is what Tim mentioned: 

Gills on the back would be my go to. Creating a structure that traverses or even changes the human chest cavity isn't unreasonable. There are currently gaps where muscle and flesh exist between the ribs. To simply say an oxygen exchanging membrane traverses the back ribs isn't to farfetched. Or simply cavities through the back ribs that bring water to the gill/lungs. The added advantage in simplicity is that because its located closer to the lungs you could reuse a lot of that organs structure. You could even likely keep both breathing methods, there are afterall creatures who can breath both air and water. As for other traits. just because you add gills does not necessitate the loss of ears and other organelles. Did you know whales still have their hind legs. As for making this more reasonable. I would increase the space between the ribs on the back (so a larger more pronounced chest) to allow a bigger gill slits. I would grow the lungs to be large and thin lining the back of the internal chest cavity, so you would have more functional respiratory surface area. The shape of the lungs is already conducive having 2 distinct halves with separation in the middle which would be needed to connect the central nervous system to the rest of the organs. If going with the cavity ribs notion then your only challenge is ensuring water circulation. Fortunately, we already have an organ that solves this called the diaphragm. Just modify the diaphragm to be drainable/floodable so it can operate in chosen environment. 

People have been trying to imagine elaborate alien biologically possible ecosystems for a while. A lot of people seem to both want but ignore one of those fundamental aspects of our own ecosystem, algae and photosynthesis in general. They also tend to want these alien environments to be hospitable for humans (always more fun if we are in the story). What I want: is a hard-science chemically plausible alternative to photosynthesis. Conditions: 

There are organisms called Retro Viruses that are capable of altering host cell DNA causing mutations. Some viruses mutate DNA so much it causes cancer the runaway/unregulated growth of cells. Indeed viruses have been looked at heavily as a means of genetic engineering existing organisms. Obviously it is met with extreme levels of controversy like what happens if it doesn't work right or enters a completely different organism or becomes transmittable. Very scary stuff. Engineering a lycanthropy virus would be very difficult: 

Is it possible? yes but... There are biological constructs capable of filtering salt. Could a creature theoretically convert salt water to freshwater, yes but the big question is what does it do with the salt or water? The law of conservation of matter still applies. I would think this creature could be kind of like a stromatellite building a big salt rock on its inside. Though as soon as it punctured it would be chaos. Maybe it could store the Na and Cl ions as a means of metabolic energy. It would need energy to do this. Could it look like a jellyfish? Maybe, depending on what it does with the salt and how it acquires energy will greatly affect its appearance. If it photosynthesizes, it wont be that clear color. If it makes a big salt rock it likely wont float or if it does it sure wont look like a jellyfish. Im also not convinced it would be capable of completely desalinizing water but im not sure it couldn't either. But, on the salt rock train, I could see a thermally powered anemone concept that looks like a jellyfish stuck on the floor. There is also the inverse of storing salt and instead store the water. In this case the jellyfish would inevitably float and be stuck on the surface which is useful because it makes harvesting easier. They would be like organically grown pre-filled water bottles. But no amount of tinkering could overcome the buoyancy problem because the stored water would be less dense than the ever increasing saline water, that is in addition to retaining the jellyfish structural appearance. 

There is mechanical overlap between swimming and flying Yes in swimming buoyancy plays a major role however lift is still a major aspect. When a whale dives, it's using its forward velocity and the angle of its fins and body to create pressure differences allowing it to change its direction similar to a plane. The difference is speed and pressure play a critical factor in wing size and shape requirements. This is why birds have big wings and whales have tiny ones. so to answer your question: your creatures would be somewhere between birds and fish in terms of structural aspects, probably closer to fish. As for how to describe the actual shapes and locomotion that really depends on how your organisms figure it out. tangent: I saw a science channel episode once that posed the visual that a man standing on venus or Jupiter could actually fly under his own power given cardboard wings because of the atmospheric density. 

Steam cannons to the rescue Steam technology has been found since before Christ. Medieval smiths could make boilers and a release valve attached to a cannon. Instructions: 

This sounds like an extreme form of PTSD The memory loss is a bit of stretch however in certain traumatic events the human mind tends to shut down and forget as means of retaining sanity, repression. As with PTSD where the mind represses events, there is a survival aspect that remembers such events in order to avoid repeating the event. When certain stimuli are triggered recollection of the event can occur in order to trigger a survival reaction to avoid repeating the event. It could be that the event itself was so traumatic that even the recollection of it retriggers repression. Example: A soldier and his unit on the field comes across a young girl in a white dress in the street and offers him a gift (chocolate). Then all the sudden she explodes from an RPG round with guts everywhere as he is set upon by live fire losing his hand and leg and a slow dramatic loss of all his buddies. He could relive that every time he sees a girl in a white dress or when someone offers him chocolate. Every time he relives that he could enter a fugue states and repress it again. During recollection he could believe he has just been set upon and is trying to attack and defend himself or he could be trying to run away. performing real world actions under the lens of his recollection. He could see interactive hallucinations of those who died. They could convey other repressed information through the survival mechanic. The occurrence would be random as encounters of stimuli would be random. The duration would be random as well and linked the strength of associating stimmuli. Note: The human mind is a very individual thing. It can follow a very logical progression of cause and effect but it can also demonstrate a degree of completely unexpected and contradictory results. Clinical diagnosis of various conditions are fairly generic applying to many potential causes and a range of relative effects. Very rarely is a condition clear cut in its cause and effect. Its the difference between a category and bob. 

Erg my point didn't seem to inspire anyone, anyways Intentional and direct Genetic Engineering requires vast amounts of knowledge and computational resources. So the one way I see to achieve this without computers is for your species to have such evolved brains that they can intentionally GE using their minds as a substitute for computers. Selective breeding and grafting are great and all but they are more akin to genetic manipulation than true genetic engineering. Without the ability to fully understand the genome and biology and be able to craft target mutators its likely they wont achieve the dramatic effects you are looking for (provided something similar doesn't already exist in your world). Note: the actual process of editing genes is achieved without computers through chemicals, retro viruses, and the imprecise gun method. You need to the computational power to craft and guide these tools. At this rate your species could then even GE creatures as function of their own biology (though farfetched) makes for fun possibilities. 

This depends on a few factors: 1) Size of the ship- obviously the bigger the ship the more noticeable it is 2) EM Emissions- Currently we are scouring the sky looking for all kinds of EM wavelengths, what your ship is emitting at Earth or blocking from reaching Earth greatly increases its chances of detection. Like if it blasting gamma rays at Earth or flying in the light path of a notable star like Sirus. 3) Proximity to Earth- The closer it is the more likely it is to be discovered. This is largely because the closer it is the more sensors there are that are capable of detection as well as the more pronounced its EM signature becomes. This distance is by no means long either. I'd say our most effective detection range roughly begins at Jupiter. 4) Blind luck- Finally, this is the biggest factor. The night sky is massive. Our celestial sphere's radius is the same as the distance from the Earth to the Sun, with half(to ~30%) of it relatively invisible at any given moment in time (occluded by the sun). Trying to find a non obvious thing in that expanse is like trying to find a piece of gold dust on a beach. For all we know there is an ELE class meteor on the way to Earth right now we just haven't yet detected it. Our detection of such objects isn't infallible. 

How about this. Treat this shield more like the shell of a mollusk. -Abalone shells are incredibly strong and virtually bullet proof. -shells aren't directly part of their creature but a product of. -your creature could work on his shell for maintenance or growth whenever there is down time. could attach and detach from the shell via a muscle 

I mean you sort of answered your own question when providing the food sources But I will do my best to list some of what they could do with it: 

So is it possible in the same way we have mules yes. Could they end up being sterile yes and no this is dependent on genetic divergence. There is another more far fetched possibility of zoonotic reproduction I theorized awhile back. Basically, one organism is capable of injecting its DNA through a retro-viral like process. Which could both cause pregnancy, pass on traits, and alter the females physiology enough to support the pregnancy. Is this likely, heck no, is it in the realm of possibility; loosely. 

This image sort of describes what im trying to get at, with different accelerations you can achieve different flight paths and different flight times while still hitting the same target. Note: The added advantage of this method is that the rotation of your planets can now be used more efficiently. When the laser is no longer able to accelerate the priority ship (due to its angle with the horizon) it can now accelerate other ships as their position in the sky would be vastly different than the priority ship. Also note: I would make cargo ships autonomous as there really isn't any need for crew especially since the rails are essentially controlling the majority of navigation.