Andrea Pirlo comes up with 18 titles if you count only club and international titles. He's won numerous individual awards as well. Also an olympic bronze :) My second guess would be Thierry Henry, who has had an impressive career of 23 titles, including conference titles from MLS. While I don't have the energy to check many more players, I'd wager the holder of most titles would be a player who won a lot, not only in clubs but also nationals. Also modern players would likely have more titles, simply because there are more competitions now, compared to what existed in the 50s. I'd check with the famous names from West German team (e.g. Matthäus, edit: who indeed has 26 titles) Lastly, Xavi Hernandez had a great career with has gotten him 27 titles, if I didn't count wrong. So I'll stop there... :) 

To answer your question without going in to all possible scenarios, whether to jump or not primarily depends on the where the spot kick is taken from. If the kick is close to the arc, seeing the goal from a favorable angle, 9/10 times the wall will jump, as the chances that it's a high curveball is much more than a speedy lowball. Keep in mind that keeping the ball low but fast is not that easy. 

These are bold statement to make, especially without any references. I could easily reply with "who?" regarding your second statement (about offside rule diminish the entertainment value of the game. 

So I had to dig up a bit on the regulations regarding the whole thing. So apparently while Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Englad being different countries, they are under the same international identity in the form of British passports. So that fact, together with the fact that there is no national team for the UK, means that any British citizen can play for any one of these four national teams. That being the case, the football associations from these different nations have come to an agreement, together with FIFA, which is referred to as the "home nations agreement". According to the agreement a player is eligible for a national team for the nation he's born/lives in/has parents or grandparents from. In Gareth Bale's case, his grandmother is English, thus he was eligible for England but opted not to play for England but instead for Wales. The residency clause was then removed in order to comply with FIFA regulations. Another clause was then added in 2008 to give eligibility for players that have gotten at least 5 year-long education before the age of 18, in any one of the four nations. This change aloows for example an English-born player who's been through education in Scotland to be eligible for both England and Scotland. The interesting bit is of it all is that athletes from any other territory within Great Britain (who're eligible for a British passport) can choose to play for any one of the four nations (e.g. Matt Le Tissier, Graeme Le Saux, Owen Hargreaves). 

D will rush on you, pressing you to make a move: in which case you make your move (as you said you are skilled, trained and have the flair to just avoid being tackled and proceed. In a scenario where the D is a bit better/seasoned, he'll likely back up slowly while trying to close of your advancement, waiting for you to "make your move". In that case you need to someone get the defender to act and commit to something. If he commits, then you change direction/do something else. For instance you might show/feint a shot stance, if he goes for it you just put the ball past the defender and quickly run past him. If he doesn't go for it, then by all means take the shot :) Another option would be to show/feint dribble to one direction and suddenly change your direction. The linked video shows several different types of such movement, carried out by one of the best players out there. I linked the video to give you an idea on the movements involved, not to tell you to play like Messi, obviously. :) In the unlikely case where the D stays his ground, just sprint past him (assuming that you have the speed, and space behind the D). You are coming with speed and you are the one choosing the direction of the play, so you have the advantage. 

@ThomasDB is quite right in his comment. It would be difficult to hide, with the modern technology and the press being on top of literally everything. That doesn't mean the coaches have to be 100% honest or don't have the wiggle-room in press conferences. For example, Mourinho is quite famous for "overestimating" injuries to his key players, only to figure out later that the player could play just fine (Diego Costa, anyone?). He's far from being the only manager who does tricks like that but perhaps one of the most famous. The main advantage is that you can mess with the opponent managers tactical plans/preparations. The opposite scenario is also quite common. A key player gets injured in a game, the press asks how serious it is, and the manager might downplay the injury even if he knows that the player might be out for a month or two. Practically what a manager says about the injuries at the pre-/post-game conferences is not binding in any way, and practically all is fair in this type of mindgame "warfare". So to answer the OP, why say anything at all? Mind-games! To mess with the morale or tactics of the opponents. It could also be a matter of man management for his own squad, for instance: i) to cheer up/support the injured player, or ii) to give confidence to a replacement player... 

Wow, where do I begin...? :) First off, I would recommend anyone to identify in which facets of the game you are lacking (which you have done more or less). I think the biggest factor in improving yourself (no matter if it's football or public speaking or anything else) is to be objectively critical of yourself. You have pointed out two important aspects of the game, namely technique and mental composure in the game (lets put aside the physical composure for a second). These are two very different aspects, which require different approaches to improve. What's common between them is practice. The more you play the more accustomed to playing you will get. This doesn't mean that you will automatically get better at playing, but you will undoubtedly feel more comfortable on the pitch. That aside, let's take a look at it one thing at a time: The technique: this is obviously the hard bit. Shooting, dribbling, heading, accurate passing/crossing are all very dependent on good technique. Technique on the other hand is built on being proficient in the fundamentals, like which side of the foot you should use in order to send the ball to different directions. Another good example is how you control the ball when it comes at you rolling or flying. You might have seen some players get really high/fast balls without a bounce, that for instance requires good skill and control, typically sign of a player who's got the fundamentals down. As @gbianchi has pointed out, this type of fundamental skills are much easier to learn at younger age, then it'll just sit in the backbone. That said, how can you improve? I cannot give you an exhaustive list but here are a couple tips: 

Match fixing is discipline agnostic, in the sense that it may occur in practically any sport. I will simply refer to match fixing in football, but it could easily translate to whatever sport, with some imagination. Match fixing is the act of playing the game to a predetermined outcome. Note that this outcome could be anything from a particular player getting a yellow/red card, to an exact final result. Likewise it could also occur in the form of a particular player not playing in the game, for some reason. It occurs usually in connection with betting, where either a player willingly (or forcefully) change his/her performance during the game, in a way that affects the game in an "unexpected" way. In such a way an unlikely event, may come to happen, and thus people who bet on that unlikely event might get a premium payout. Match fixing is against the rules of the game in most (if not all) sport, and very often against the law. I don't know about cricket but in football there have been a series of huge scandals in Europe, primarily in Italy where several players and referees were proved to have partaken in illegal conduct (gambling) and were banned. Likewise major clubs such as Juventus, Milan, Fiorentina and Lazio (among others) were severely penalized. The wikipedia article for match fixing is actually pretty good, it's a good place to start reading up on the material. 

What is a rec basketball team? I believe the term rec stands for recreational, meaning "just for fun/training". Such teams are essentially much less competitive and, in my experience, usually composed of enthusiasts and old/injured players. What is a travel team? (In basketball, and just in general.) I have to admit I have never heard of this term, in basketball or otherwise. My guess would be that it's a team that's engaged in a league that requires the team to travel for games, for instance within the region/county/state etc. What is the difference between varsity and junior varsity? Wikipedia has a pretty good article about junior varsity teams, I suggest you start your reading there. Here's a excerpt: