I dunno. You're the one who invented the process. You're the one who decided to violate the fundamentals of physics as we know it. So it's up to you to decide whether or not the process damages the subject. What makes a better story? 

H. Beam Piper's Terro-Human Future History is another possibility, with at least 2 Federations and 5 Empires. 

Torso in the middle or rear does not seem too practical. On the one hand, it will make maneuvering on rough ground very difficult, as the forward portion of the torso will block visibility for near terrain. The selective pressures on a centaur species trying to gallop at speed should be obvious. On the other hand, it will also become extremely difficult to manipulate objects, since, as Martin_xs6 pointed out, it would be difficult to pick them up. Not that it would be easy for a classical centaur, with arms so high up, but at least a standard centaur can see objects that he wants to pick up. And leaning sideways is not a great option, since it requires extreme torsional compliance of the body and spine. 

"Physicists calculate that it will destabilise Earth's orbit and send Earth heading straight into the sun. The calculations aren't yet precise enough to find out what will happen to the planet." Huh? 1)It only approaches within 10 million kilometers, about 30 times farther than the moon. There is no way that will destabilize the earth's orbit, since the worst-case gravitational pull on the earth will be about 1/9 that of the moon, and that will occur for a fairly short time due to the high velocity. 2) If the effect on the earth is known, the effect on the rogue is known. You can't have it both ways. 

The mechanism already exists on earth, and is seen in the different winter coats of Arctic and sub-Arctic mammals such as Arctic foxes, stoats and rabbits and hares. Responding either to shortened days and/or dropping temperatures, the animals stop producing pigment in their brown fur, and it grows out white. Similarly, you would have either a one-pigment or a two-pigment system. A one-pigment system would operate like earth animals, with a base color for the hair and an overriding pigment which is produced either only in early life or in later life. A two-pigment system would presumably occur with a relatively neutral base color for the hair, and one pigment produced early in life, while the other is produced later. And for what it's worth, a restrained version of your desired change can occur in people. In my family, several males were redheads as children, then turned brown at puberty, then white when older. 

I'd start by asking - who cares? This is a medieval(ish) world. 90+% of the people are subsistence farmers. Trade is, by our standards, almost nonexistent. Transportation is largely muscle-driven, and water travel (especially ocean travel) is hazardous. What long-range trade there is is pretty much confined to relatively high-value goods. This largely rules out trade in raw resources. Food, except luxury items like spices and wine, is local. Refined metal, rather than ores, and not a lot of that. No timber, except perhaps exotic woods. Manufactured goods, especially arms and cloth, can be shipped fairly long distances, but these would hardly be widely used. Wool cloth, for instance, is nice, but locally produced leather or linen is likely cheaper. The classic exception, Rome, requires careful thought. An important aspect of Rome's ability to encourage trade was its military might and political control. If you want large-scale trade, you need an empire. Another important factor is slavery. Slaves make cheap labor, and this cuts transportation costs. Are you sure you want a monolithic, oppressive government, and widespread slavery? In response to another answer, I'd point out that with the transportation available, importing firewood is a non-starter, unless the producing area is fabulously wealthy in some product. Likewise, trade in water is just ludicrous. The bulk and weight are simply too great. Ice is possible, since the Romans used it occasionally, but it was the height of luxury, and wildly expensive. Minerals/gems are where you find them. While the vertical exposure associated with mountains makes them somewhat preferred, placer deposits such as gold are found far from the sources, and eroded land also exposes lower strata. Consider the British tin mines of Cornwall and Dartmoor, which were the dominant source for millennia. The region is coastal, with elevations of no more than 2000 feet, and marked by gentle hills and valleys. 

I would suggest the classic sci-fi trope where the planet is just highly elliptical. But don't let this plunder your hopes, this is only based on the current understanding of orbital mechanics. 

If we only look at it with classical mechanics, this system would be highly chaotic. Each time the two stars get close, all the planets will be thrown everywhere. We haven't yet found planets orbiting closely a single star in close binary systems. Most of the systems where we do find plausible planets are those where the stars in the binary system are very close and the planets are orbiting from far away. Example: Proxima Centauri b. If we ignore the color of the blue 'dwarf' (you can explain the color using some kind of future tech or yet-to-be-found astronomical body, since blue stars, which fuse hydrogen at a faster rate, and thus hotter, are massive.) and assume both stars are the same mass, you would have an orbit like this. 

Radiation is detrimental to DNA, as it will induce mutations. Though some bacteria on Earth have developed radiation-resistant DNA-repairing enzymes. See: $URL$ But, Radiotrophic fungus exists: $URL$ With a combination of melanin, photosynthesis, and chemosynthesis, they convert gamma radiation to chemical energy. Furthermore, High energy radiation gets absorbed by water fairly quickly. If the deposit is large enough to sustain a nuclear reaction, you would have a heated zone that would be more favorable to other lifeforms too, like a geothermal vent. See: $URL$ 

Advantages of Mechs: This is a list of advantages mechs might have in some situations. Note that Mechs cannot do the job of tanks/planes/ships nor replace them. They are a new form of vehicles designed for a new form of warfare. This is all coming from an undergraduate in Physics and Computer Sciences, thus I am not an engineer, nor Napoleon, take this only as my grain of salt. TL;DR: Since Mechs have the same degree of liberty as a Human, it can do everything a human does, but at orders of magnitudes faster, thanks to Artificial Intelligence. A tank does not need and would not benefit from recent advances in machine learning since it only requires two variables: foward-backwards movement, aiming and shooting. A mech can do 'everything'. Which is why most armies in the world are fervently developing this technology. From the Military Point of View 

Now for planets to orbit a single star in that binary system, you would need to solve the n-body problem, a problem that is currently unsolved, because it is chaotic. If you do a simulation of three bodies for million of years, the result would be highly different than what we would see in real life. The errors of a numerical solution are just too great in cosmic timescales. $URL$ 

To conclude, an intelligent commander would use all the best characteristics of mechs to create an automated, multi-purpose robotic swarm that is able to cheaply and quickly overwhelm the enemy. It is quite frightening indeed. Of course, big mechs are inherently slow and bulky, smaller mechs would be the way to go. Now you might think, if this is so GREAT, why hasn't any army developed mechs already? Good question. The reason is that programming bipedal motion is hard... (EXTREMELY hard) (As a computer science student I can attest to that) It took millions of years to evolve bipedal motion, and even for children, it takes 3 years to properly learn how to walk. Armies are pouring tons of money into developing quadrupedal motion. Why not bipedal? Because if the robot cannot even walk with four legs, forget even thinking about walking on only two legs. So while two-legged mechs are cool in theory, they are really hard to make. However, you should anticipate quadrupedal mechs coming in the next decade or so. To give you an idea of what it would look like: 

You should be clearer than 'digital' form. I will assume you mean scanning matter and storing it as information. It is currently feasible but they come in varying degrees of precision. We have Radar, Lidar, X-Ray Imaging, Thermal Imaging, CT (magnetic) scans, etc. A hypothetically advanced civilization could be able to accurately represent 'matter' down to atoms, however, they would not be able to represent quantum information with classical computers. That is only assuming our quantum theory is not bogus. Converting matter into energy is quite easy, as mentioned by Einstein decades earlier. The popular equation E=mc2 that allowed us to split the atom is actually Energy equals mass times speed of light squared. We're already doing that within nuclear reactors. I suggest you read more about: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Other than increasing the cost of encrypted traffic to the point that it would be used more selectively, there is no reason to expect a change. It is always possible to generate one-time encryption keys physically (monitoring radioactive decay, for instance, or my all-time favorite, lava lamps $URL$ At this time, so far as I know, such keys are not amenable to being broken, even in principle, by the application of computing power, and going to quantum computing won't help. Once this occurs, the "only" problem is secure key management and distribution. The gains in convenience and security associated with private/public encryption algorithms would be lost, and the replacement costs would be considerable, and would require an entirely different security model, but in principle these don't seem insuperable - just expensive, with all the effects which "expensive" imply. 

Much depends on your timescale. Just exactly how long do need to be in sunlight? If it's 8 or 10 hours, Thorsten S has the right answer. However, no aircraft can maintain flight continuously, and supersonic aircraft in particular will start to get very unhappy after 10 hours or so in the air. As a result, you'd need to create a Pony Express system, with multiple aircraft spaced at, let's say, 8-hour intervals, with the payload being transferred to each in turn. So you'd need a minimum of 3 aircraft, plus a fleet of tankers, and perhaps 2 or 3 times as many to deal with larger maintenance issues. Note that the B2 has flown missions of 70 hours continuous operation, but a) this was considered a quite remarkable performance, and b) the B2 is subsonic and incapable of keeping up with the sun. Of course, this assumes an equatorial flight, and this is not necessary. By flying along the solar equivalent of the Arctic Circle, and staying constantly in twilight, a ground distance of about 10,000 miles is adequate. This implies a ground speed of about 400 miles per hour, so subsonic CAN do the job. In this case, you might get away with only 2 aircraft, with each aircraft operating for 24 hours in turn. Eventually this will require more aircraft, since major overhauls typically take more than 24 hours, and sooner or later something major will need replacing. 

Alas, not even close. Let's say you did manage it. How would you get them to the Antarctica? There simply isn't enough shipping to manage it. Furthermore, you'd need to devote a lot of what there is to provide support for those who do go. Food, water, shelter, etc. The South Pole is not noted for its temperate climate, and not many workers will accept a job which will kill them. Furthermore, assuming the job will take more than a fairly short time, you have to leave a great many people behind to continue providing support. Somebody has to pump the oil and run the pipelines and run the refineries to provide the heating oil to keep the workers from freezing. And somebody has to run the farms to grow more food, and ship the food to the processing plants, and run the plants, and ship the processed food to the ships to send to Antarctica to feed the workers. And on and on. There's an old saying: 

Mr Baloney had the right idea, I'll give a somewhat more specific answer. Is there anywhere on earth where the air density is 1/2 that of sea level? Of course. From $URL$ pretty much anywhere at an altitude of about 6 km will do. Any aircraft which operates at this altitude on earth will do just fine on Thindor. No only that, but since it weighs 1/3 of what it does on earth, it can now carry twice its weight in cargo. Alternatively, it can have 3 times the mass it does on earth and still fly. This means it could be built out of much simpler (but heavier) materials, and still get off the ground.