References Bailey, R (1998). Review: Stratigraphy, Meta-Stratigraphy, and Chaos. Terra Nova 10, 222-230. DOI: 10.1046/j.1365- 3121.1998.00192.x Romans, B (2014). Strata are not flat. In: M Hall, ed., 52 Things You Should Know About Geology. Agile Libre, Nova Scotia, 132 pp. ISBN 978-0-9879594-2-3. Available online. 

No, there is no consensus. In fact, there's quite a bit of debate about it — around the 2 causes you mentioned. To sum up the proposed triggers: 

It depends. Caveat: my experience is with reflection seismic surveys, but I think many of the principles are similar to MASW. As you guessed: it's an optimization problem. There are lots of factors at play. It's up to the geophysicist to balance the various needs of the survey: 

Why do systems with later season starting dates prevail today? Perhaps because at mid-latitudes, the seasonal lag means that the start of seasonal weather is weeks later than the start of the 'insolation' period. In a system with no heat capacity, there would be no lag. In systems with high heat capacity, like the marine environment, the lag may be several months (Ibid.). Here's what the lag looks like in three mid-latitude cities: 

(float) — x location (float) — y location [1-9] (int) — seems to change with each interpreted segment of horizon 14 — no idea (float) — two-way time (float) — no idea (float) — no idea (int) — CDP or trace number 2 — no idea (str) — line::dataset 

There are thought to be two main effects at play: ridge push, and slab pull. We don't know much about their relative importance, but it probably varies spatially (e.g. Ribeiro, 2012, Soft Plate and Impact Tectonics, Springer). Ridge push happens not because the new lava is pushing, but because the ridge is high up. It's so high that in some places it sticks out of the water (e.g. Iceland). It's high because it's hot — but not from deep convection. A geophysical technique called seismic tomography suggests that the hot zone is relatively shallow. As the new plate cools, it thickens and sinks 'downhill', pushing the older plate ahead. Slab pull is easier to imagine: a subducting plate, sinking into the asthenosphere (uppermost mantle), pulls the younger plate behind it. Not all margins are destructive, however, so slab pull does not operate everywhere. Indeed, the relative important of push and pull is debated. You will sometimes see figures like this one, strongly implying that convection and plate motion are strongly coupled. The earth is a complex system so the processes are certainly related, but we don't understand the frictional forces (drag) at the lithosphere–asthenosphere boundary well (e.g. read this primer by DiVenere). These images, while prevalent, are an unhelpful over-simplification. 

The greatest minimum offset in a bin is an important consideration, as you guessed. Also notice the spider plots, which try to visualize both maximum offset in a bin, and the range of azimuths going into that bin (which could be important for stress analysis, for example): 

Other than the age of the planet's surface, there are some secondary reasons why there are fewer craters on earth: 

The latitudes today are 66°33′46.1″ N and S, the Arctic and Antarctic Circles. By definition, north of the Arctic circle, and south of the Antarctic circle, everywhere gets at least one day with no sunset, which I guess is what you mean by 'exactly 24 hours of daylight'? From the linked article: 

The debate may not be satisfactorily resolved for some time. It seems to be one of those unhelpful debates where, to the participants at least, there is no uncertainty. My heuristic in such situations is to assume this means that "it's complicated". References 

Since Hudson Bay is connected to the world's ocean, mainly through Hudson Strait, the runoff into the Bay has no measurable effect on the water level. Credit Ice retreat map by TKostolany, licensed CC-BY-SA. Rebound map by NRCan, free of copyright. Google Maps image contains own credit. 

About 80th. I counted the earthquakes of each magnitude on the List of deadly earthquakes... article. If the Nepal earthquake is about M7.8, then it's in the range 69th to 86th on that list: 

There have been a few discoveries in the Bay of Bengal. Santos made a gas discovery in 2012, and depending on what you'd call part of the delta complex (all of the Bengal Fan?), there are others. One field, Sangu, saw several years of production, but seems to be shut-in today. Another, Kutubdia, is awaiting development. It's true though that there have not been many at all, if you compare with some other big deltas, like Niger or the Gulf of Mexico. Blakely (2010) suggested there are border disputes, which definitely slows exploration. I'm just guessing, but there may be other factors, such as regulatory issues, slow government licensing, or political pressures. Reading around, it does seem fair to say that the region has not been fully explored, and clearly there is a working hydrocarbon system. References Blakeley, I (2010). Bay of Bengal. GEO Expro 7 (6). Available online 

Sheriff's Encyclopedic Dictionary is the closest thing to a canonical text, but the Schlumberger glossary is more up to date. Sheriff is a scientific text, whereas the Schlumberger glossary is a little more generally accessible, but neither is comprehensive. Sheriff is especially poor on recent advances. On the plus side, you can edit it, if you're an SEG member. After those two, Wikipedia is probably your next best bet. 

Note that there are more earthquakes than this in recent history, the list has already selected for deadliness. Also note the point in the comments about different magnitude measures in the list, and the fact that the list is a few years out of date. I don't think these things change the answer. 

Negative values are physical and are expected. Indeed, Thomsen's 1986 paper has several negative values for $\delta$, $\epsilon$, and $\gamma$ — look at the data in Table 1. He also discusses negative values, at least for $\delta$ (e.g. on page 1961) . You can quickly get a sense of how common negative values are from his Figure 4: 

The maximum frequency $f_\text{max}$ of the data determines its resolving power. There are various ways to think about and calculate this; here's one formula (Kallweit & Wood, 1982): $$\tau_\text{min} = \frac{1}{1.4\,f_\text{max}}$$ So in our example, the thinnest resolvable bed is about 1 / (1.4 $\times$ 100) = 7.1 ms, and it will be thicker than that if there is a lot of noise or the bandwidth is not optimal (the earth attenuates high frequencies more than low ones, so this is an absolute minimum). If we assume a P-wave velocity of 2500 m/s, then 7.1 ms two-way time is about 2500 * (7.1/2) = 8.9 m (55 ft). Ordinary wireline logs have a resolution of 0.15 m or 6 in, so there's a substantial discrepancy. I call this 'the integration gap'. Because the seismic contains no information about geology thinner than this 8.9 m (in this example), not only is it pointless trying to invert for it, but it would be dangerous: anything we thought we'd resolved would be erroneous. This is why it's necessary to filter the logs back to the resolution of the seismic. Reference Kallweit, R & L Wood (1982). The limits of resolution of zero-phase wavelets. Geophysics 47 (7), p 1035–1046, DOI:10.1190/1.1441367. 

Reference Emery, K & D Aubrey (1991). Sea-Levels, Land Levels and Tide Gauges. Springer-Verlag, New York, 237p. 

The exact same effect happens on a diurnal (daily) basis too — the warmest part of the day is often not midday (or 1 pm in summer). As with the seasons, there are lots of other factors too, but the principle is the same. These aren't mutually exclusive ways of looking at it — there's clearly lots of overlap here. Cultural notions of season are surely rooted in astronomy, weather, and agriculture. 

Because those frequencies are not present in the seismic data. Here's an example with some typical numbers: 

Elevation can be measured against a tidal datum, in which case it is usually tied to some historic mean, or against a geodetic datum, which is statically defined. Tidal datums, of which there are many flavours, are only useful locally and, as you thought, they drift over time. Here's what NOAA says: 

Seismic, but... There are lots of ways of estimating wavelets. None of them rely on well logs alone, because they don't contain any information about the wavelet. Some methods are purely statistical, some use the seismic data, and some of them use seismic and well logs. Background I recommend reading what you can about wavelet extraction. Especially these (see links to many of these here): 

Yes, it makes a difference. In this case the grid-registered dataset is higher fidelity. However, the cell-registered is easier to handle. As you see, both types of data are available on the dataset's page. The page states: 

Since global sea-level is currently rising at about 3 mm/a, a local uplift at this rate will break even. Anything more will result in relative sea-level fall, as we see in Hudson Bay (as well as in Scandinavia, the UK, Alaska, and elsewhere — this map is wonderful). Interesting, for geologists anyway, is the sedimentological record this leaves. I love this example of raised beaches and a small delta experiencing forced regression on the shores of Hudson Bay: 

Insurance may be the best example. As the document you linked to describes in some detail, there are lots of ways of spreading risk. Traditional insurance is one common mechanism. I think their point is that with a functional insurance model, the effects of a natural disaster may be less profound and/or less protracted (see page 27 of the report). Think of risk as the possibility of something unpleasant happening — say, something resulting in a financial cost. For example, there's a small risk of a hurricane destroying my house. I couldn't afford to rebuild it if that happened. So I buy indemnity cover for some small fixed monthly fee. Now there is essentially no risk to me, just a small definite cost. In effect, I have transferred my risk to the insurer. The risk hasn't gone away. In exchange for my monthly fee, or premium, the insurer has assumed the risk of having to pay me a lot of money at some point in the future. It has been pooled with lots of other people — the insurer's other clients — so there's also the grave risk of everyone claiming at the same time. Weighing these risks and setting the premiums accordingly is what insurance companies have to be really good at. Read up on the insurance consequences of the San Francisco earthquake, the September 11 attacks, or Hurricane Andrew. 

Mosteller and Tukey also called them counts (see Mosteller's book, Data Analysis and Regression). It's clear to me that the concept is a good fit for, say, population, but your biomass example seems intuitively less clear-cut. The point is that it's a countable quantity, as opposed to a ratio scale, so it might just be a matter of being careful how you define the term. This answer was edited after clarification in the comments. 

No, they are not necessarily volcanic. Both of these terms, along with many others like fringing reef and barrier reef, are just morphologic — to do with shape. They tend not to imply anything genetic — to do with origin. (The separation of description and interpretation is an important principle in observational sciences like geoscience.) 

What about spatially? As you can see from this map, they don't correspond all that well spatially either: they are commonly 100s of kilometres apart, sometimes more. 

But deposited sediment does not a rock make. Once deposited and if buried, most sediment undergoes compaction and diagenesis, eventually lithifying — a fancy word for turning into a rock. Below the water table, the shallow crust is saturated with (mostly) saline water, and processes like dissolution and cementation are necessarily aqueous. So it's fair to say that water is essential in the formation of sedimentary rocks, on Earth anyway. Footnote You were right to be skeptical, by the way; the video is introductory material apparently intended for grade school audience, so you can't treat it like a textbook. And you can't even take a textbook as 'truth', especially when it comes to slippery things like definitions. Sometimes generalizations and simplifications help, sometimes they don't. 

A thick ice sheet depresses the crust (the lithosphere), making a small dent in the uppermost mantle (the asthenosphere) in the process. Well, not that small: p 375 in Gornitz (2009, Encyclopedia of Paleoclimatology and Ancient Environments) says it could be 800 m for a 3000 metre-thick ice sheet! Since the asthenosphere is highly viscous, it takes a long time time for the depression to 'bounce' back up. This map from Natural Resources Canada shows the current rate: 

Tomography! In essence, we guess some velocities, compute the arrival times our guess implies, compare them with actual arrival times, tweak our answer, and repeat. Seismic tomography is an ill-posed, ill-conditioned inverse problem, and one upshot of this is that the solutions are non-unique — there are infinitely many answers! We have to choose one (or, better, many), that are compatible with what we think we know about the earth. Compare this with a medical computed tomography (CT) scan, in which there are far fewer unknowns. In the shallow subsurface, down to about 5–10 km in most basins, we have the added advantage of measured well logs, specifically sonic logs, which measure the slowness (1/velocity) of ultrasound. As in all inverse problems, extra information constrains the solution greatly. 

Each horizon starts with two similar header rows. I'm not too worried about those (but it would be nice to know about them too). I'm more interested in the (400,000 or so) data rows. Here's what I surmise so far: 

Here's one example of the application of the method [PDF] from Yadav et al. (2010). It's just my opinion, but I'd treat the idea and the method with the same skepticism as any method claiming to enhance seismic resolution. That said, I'm sure there's a champion of blueing for every detractor. Caveat interpretor. 

You can even see an old gypsum mine near Iona in Google Maps satellite view — the obvious white patch in the lagoon. There are often accessory minerals in gypsum, most famously in Cape Breton howlite. That may be what some of the dark patches are; it's hard to tell from this picture. The geological map is the property of the Government of Nova Scotia and is used here in accordance with their personal research and non-commercial use policies. 

Images from Google Maps. Note: I edited this answer substantially after the OP clarified the question... and I learned about the difference between transform faults and fracture zones. 

So what's the difference? The grid-registered version puts the data points at the grid corners (the red lines, not the grey squares, define the grid boundaries. You have to imagine the grid cells in the left-hand image). So if there are $n \times m$ grid cells, there are $(n+1) \times (m+1)$ data points in the grid-registered data. Since there are fewer data points in the cell-registered version, making it involves some smoothing (averaging) of the values in the grid-registered version. There's an illustration of this effect on the other page you linked to; notice how the centre cell of value 90 ends up being smoothed away: 

This attrition is part of the rock cycle and a very slow-moving part of the carbon cycle. These are well-studied and reasonably well-understood. You seem to suggest there is a paradox, that there's just constant deposition and no erosion or dissolution. But there is no paradox. The earth is not becoming thicker and thicker, material is not coming from space (not in substantial quantities anyway), and there's no need to invoke any processes we don't understand sufficiently to explain our large-scale observations. We know this because those processes would have a measurable effect on all sorts of things: the earth's orbit, climate, plate tectonics, and so on. There would be, I suggest, a strong low-frequency trend in all sorts of signals (stable isotopes, organism growth rates, sedimentation rates, volcanism rates, and so on). The image is by Flickr/Harvey Barrison, CC-BY-SA. 

As for physical meaning, it depends on the parameter. I recently wrote this about the physical meaning of the Thomsen parameters (edited for brevity): 

I think there are at least a couple of approaches that avoid having to choose now and stick with it: 

The width of a unit in a stratigraphic column, or 'log', sometimes represents the average grainsize of the rock. I can imagine it being keyed to some other property, but grainsize is common. You'll find lots of examples with a quick search for 'sedimentary log'. The height of a unit typically represents thickness if the vertical axis is length, height or depth. Alternatively, if the vertical axis is time, then the height of a unit corresponds to time duration. I've tried to illustrate some of the typical layouts here: 

As you say, eastings are usually less than 834 000 m, and more than 160 000 m. Note than some UTM zones are non-standard widths. Also, you will sometimes see coordinates referenced to some neighbouring zone, which isn't a good idea but is sometimes convenient, so the numbers can be unexpectedly large. Lastly: be aware that in the US you may sometimes come across UTM coordinates in other units, such as feet. Horrible.