They are crazy expensive but still in production and/or available new. (Which is to say you can just order one). It's not just gouging at the retail end. As with many Campy parts they're just plain expensive. I highly recommend not messing around with mismatching the crown race. That's true of most headsets because while you may be able to find something that seems to engage the bearings, the race and the cup are designed together to seal correctly. So you might be able to come up with something that physically works, but a cheap new headset would likely be better in practice. In this case, while you're correct that if it's a generic 5/32"x16 caged bearing in there then a mismatched race for a headset that uses the same bearing probably won't have any bearing contact issues (not an absolute because the balls do have some wiggle room in their retainers), the headset you've got doesn't use a generic lower bearing. It uses a special Campy one with 3/16" balls. 

The simple answer is no, because loads, RPMs, and temperatures on bike bearings are all relatively low. Any of the common bearing greases are fine, and if the bike ever gets ridden in wet conditions then water resistance easily becomes the most important variable factor among greases. Whether the drawbacks of any of the EP additives might ever come into play in any bicycle application I don't know. But using common moly EP lithium grease is fine. 

You don't say what brand of hub it is so I'm assuming it's a could-be-anything OEM singlespeed MTB cassette hub. There is no universal answer. If you want to figure it out yourself and you have no other real information about the hub (which would usually be the case unless it's from an aftermarket hub maker), you have to take it all the way apart and see what there is to see. Some hubs, for example most Shimano cassette hubs, can be tuned for freehub play by permanently removing one of a set of very thin shims inside that are there just for that purpose, but one has to take the unusual step of completely disassembling the freehub body. It's also possible that play is occuring because a freehub cartridge bearing is destroyed, in which case can just replace the bearing. Depending on the design of the hub, it's possible that this could be a simple adjustment, but that's not usually the case. If you do find that you need a replacement freehub body, and it is an OEM wheel, they can be tricky to get hold of but it's possible more often than some might have you think. If it's branded by a bike company then the first place to start is a call to that company's warranty department, which in some cases might just have it laying around, especially if you know the exact model and year of the bike. If that doesn't get you anywhere, which is entirely possible, then it becomes a matter of pouring through images of all the Novatec, Formula, KT, King Kong/KK, Chosen, etc hubs of that genre that have ever been made, getting the model, and making contact with a representative of that company that speaks your language. At that point arrangements can often be made to get hold of a replacement freehub body. Since this is a singlespeed it's probably more of a longshot than usual that this plan will work, but it's worth trying. 

Not possible. Convertible hubs are made to be that way, and no Shimano hubs are. There are no generic adapters or spacers that can do this. 756 XT far predates 15mm. There's no room for a 15mm axle in there. 

The Knard rim width recommendations have to be referring to external width. A lot of us think of rims more in external width, which is essentially a bad habit. It used to matter much less in rim brake only world, as the relationship between inner and outer was more constant. WTB is stalwart about their rim and tire measurement practices - they always stick to measures of internal rim width, they always diligently give you both the minor and major (casing versus knob) width of their tires, etc. 

The real answer to this question is in all practicality, no. Steel steerers are extremely strong, and actually bending it back to straight enough that bearing alignment is correct is just not going to happen in practice. If the steerer is brazed into the crown, a framebuilder may be able to remove the bent one and put in a new one. My guess is that few if any would be happy about the idea of doing this to an aero 753 fork (kind of the most corner case permutation of this question you could ever ask for, actually), but that becomes a question of the judgement of whoever you're working with. 

Rear hydraulic brakes are always a little bit softer feeling than fronts. My understanding of the reason is that the hose isn't 100% unable to bulge, the system is never 100% free of air, and/or the fluid isn't 100% unable to compress, despite all those numbers being close too 100, so the more hose and more fluid you have, the more softness creeps into the brake feel. There's a mechanical skill/judgment call involved sometimes in being able to differentiate between normal rear brake feel and slight air contamination, and sometimes brakes wind up being bled because someone decided to be on the safe side. How I would approach it is ask if you were judging the rear brake feel independently of the front, when squeezing hard and fairly fast, does it give you that moment of firmness, where the free movement of fluid in the system has clearly been taken up and now you're squeezing against the flex/compression-resistant aspect of the system? Or does it transition straight to mush without a good moment of firmness? That's the symptom of a brake you should at least try bleeding. 

The size is 700c, indicated by "700 x 42c." The reference to 28" is in there because a few countries use that designation for the same thing. You also need to match the frame spacing of the bike (135mm if it was made in the last 20 or so years), the brake type (rim versus disc), and freewheel versus cassette rear cogs. 

Auriga M290s are generally pretty good and trouble-free but they do bite it sometimes. They're one of the most populous lower end hydros out there, but are mostly an OEM part so you won't necessarily see it listed in product lineups. Pretty much the only reasonably fixable problem the lever might have is at the bleed port. If that's where the fluid is coming out, you can check that the o-ring underneath the screw is in good shape and sitting in there in the right place, and the bleed screw is tight. You could also check the bolt on the side of the lever, which normally isn't touched. You can also check that the hose connections are tight and the hose is undamaged. Especially if the bike hangs, oil that leaks out somewhere on the hose could make its way to the lever. There isn't any internal/rebuild spare parts support for brakes like this. A complete new M290 brake is about $35US online, and that comes with a rotor and fresh pads, so just replacing the whole thing is the usual plan if there seem to be seal leaks or other internal parts issues. 

Other solutions where the reach should be good but that probably won't work very well with a narrow road rim: Odyssey Pitbull and Pitbull 2 roller-cam brakes, or a 990/u-brake adapter and a standard modern BMX u-brake. Edit: Some of the longest and fanciest of the fancy rando long-reach centerpulls may also work, barely. Compass lists their brake as 65-80mm. However, if it did reach, it would probably be the best brake you could get on there. 

First thing to do is double check the other side is put together right, namely that the toothy bits are engaging. If so, probably what's happening is the teeth that are supposed to hold the angle adjustment in place got rounded off from prior incidents of slipping. These kinds of clamps come in one very commonly seen size, 22.2mm aka 7/8", and a couple weird ones that are mostly the domain of antique bikes. You might as well bring in the old one to match, or put a ruler across it to confirm it wants a 22.2mm post end (different from the seatpost size proper because usually pipe style ones taper at the clamp end). The rail mount part is universal among normal single rail saddles. Most bike shops with any kind of family/casual customer base accumulate a big heavy box of new replacement clamps because they come with certain brands of saddle, but most bikes don't actually need them because they have posts with integrated clamps. So from a shop like that they're pretty ubiquitous and cheap.