Saltstraumen and Moskstraumen can both be up to 8km wide. I know of no reason why they could not be bigger. The terrain needs to be correct, such that water is trying to move very fast through an opening which is relatively small. In the case of some whirlpools, the constraining passage can be underwater. I do not believe that a landmass could be engulfed in a maelstrom though. The existence of an island inside of it would make the vortex more difficult to form. Try it at home... If you take a pan full of water and start swirling around the edges, a little whirlpool will form. Now try it with a bundt pan. Moving the water around is much more difficult, and the water will slow down faster. FYI - Whirlpools can be caused by non-natural events as well. Lake Peigneur in Louisiana was the site of a maelstrom resulting from aberrant drilling. I'm surprised no Bond villain has tried this... 

Flapping wing designs are what came first in our history but they didn't work because too high gravity and too thin atmosphere for the weight of the craft. So in a world with thicker atmosphere and/or lighter gravity and perhaps lighter materials to build them out of, an ornithopter will work and be used until people discover the efficiency of the fixed wing+propeller. 

A fire/blast resistant epidermis would be enough. An animal sensing a blast would huddle down protecting the more vulnerable parts, hold their breath and wait it out. Afterwards they could stop-drop-an-roll to put out the embers in the fur or throw dust on themselves to put them out. However the biggest change would be the possibility for animals to stop eating for energy. They would still need to eat to grow (and heal) but not for energy. But instead use internal oxidation of the hydrogen in the air they breath (same would go for the plants). All in all a fauna with a very low carbon foot-print. 

okay here's what I would suggest, create a calendar for your first area Day 1 of month 1 is the first day that the flames should be hitting the area Last day of month 1 is the day that the storm has moves on So the days in which the flames are coming back will be the end of the year. Divide up the rest of the year into months of the same size as the first, or smaller units if you need. For the sake of simplicity, I'll use a 30 day month, with 12 months. So "January" would be the fire days. Then you can map out what should happen in that area each month. Trees start growing back in month 3, should be a foot tall in month 4, 6 feet in month 10 etc. This can also be translated into distance and movement. At 3 months, the fire is 1/4 away around the world. For the purposes of travel, characters who travel 1/4 of the way around the world, would have their calendars turned back 3 months. If you keep track of how much time passes, and where they are, you should always be able to determine where the fire is and what is happening where they are right now. 

To ignite the hydrogen you still need an oxidizer or just a general alkaline material to absorb the hydrogen. To just burn with oxygen to create an ice rock you would need ~8 times the mass of the hydrogen in oxygen. That is a lot of gas. The other option is to harvest all the gas by skimming the outer layers with scoops. 

If you allow the output to be . What you have is essentially a Hyper-Computer. The device that most closely matches your setup is a Zeno machine. After 1 ns you have either the result of the computation or it's already "crashed". This stands above the Turing machine in the computational hierarchy and bypasses the Halting problem entirely. The result of having such a machine available means that all computational tasks that you can think of will be able to be solved as fast as you can port them to the machines language and transfer them in. This means that is the NSA has access to it then they don't need to insert vulnerabilities in crypto standards. As most encrypted data can be decrypted. The One-Time pad will remain safe however. 

So most zombie apocalypse stories involve wiping out 99.9% of the human race and having a small minority survive to try and keep living. But, let's say I want society as we know it to collapse, but I still want a substantial number of people around to keep some of modern life going. However, if there are too many people they would eventually be able to clear out the zombies... Also, we need to have enough people so that we can keep repopulating both the human population and the zombie population... So what is the minimum number of people needed to keep a small city running? For the sake of argument, let's say it started off with 250k and I want to cull at least 80%. What are the essentials that could be covered? (Power, water, sanitation) And how many people would be needed to cover them? How many people would be needed to handle farming and livestock? Obviously, need to figure out how many people would be necessary for security, which would probably need the most employees. 

Now available! 3D printing for all your instant prosthetic needs. In just minutes your patient will be moving around with his new leg thanks to our patented technology. We are not responsible for broken prosthetics; pressure sores; nerve damage or bruises due to bad fit or misuse. Home-printed 3D prosthetics are not a long-term substitute for actual medical care. 

You can fake a gas leak during the night using the oven/stove. Assuming there is no safety built-in to shut off the gas if it fails to ignite. Then when optimal mixture is achieved spark the igniter. Alternatively you can create a carbon monoxide buildup by closing the windows and starting the car in the garage and/or sealing the chimney stack and firing up the boiler then recirculating the gas through the AC system. 

There are a variety of weapons that are designed to be non-lethal for riot control. Rubber and plastic bullets (which need to be fired from special guns) don't penetrate people, so I would tend to think the spacecraft should be okay. There are specialized versions of rubber and plastic bullets called pepper rounds which are used for home defense. In addition to the non-lethal stopping power, they also leave a trail of pepper dust which can irritate eyes, skin etc... Of course, there are a whole host of agents both lethal and non which can be used in its place. Sponge grenades and bean bag rounds are larger rounds, but also could be effective. There are also varieties of lower powered bullets like .22 shorts. These are largely used for target practice and hunting little creatures. They do not penetrate as deeply. Occasionally they are made of compressed metal dust, common at target ranges, which essentially disintegrate on impact. But the holy grail in this case is probably a bullet like the Glaser Safety Slug which is the ammo of choice for Sky Marshals in the US. The Glaser is a hollow bullet filled with bird shot which disintegrates on impact with any surface that is harder than it. They theoretically cannot pierce an aircraft's hull, they don't ricochet, but they'll still take down those space pirates. 

Looks like you want a savanna biome in the valley between the mountain ranges. You can feed the water inland through rivers fed by glaciers in the mountains and underground rivers/lakes. They will then meander though the valley and leave through one of the gaps into the ocean. You'll need to stop trees from growing in some way, either by frequent fires or a shallow soil layer. 

An orbital race would be mostly thrusting towards the planet to stay in a low orbit as possible while exceeding the normal orbital speed at that altitude. This is not really interesting. Unless a thruster fails and they shoot off into space... An interplanetary race would depend on how daring the pilots are and would take several months. The result will depend on the delta-V of the craft and the accuracy of the nav computer 

That said, here is how I think humans would adapt: Daytime would be mostly work time, with catnaps interspersed through at the light hours. I would tend to believe that there would be easily accessible bunks in work places for people to go at naptime. Nighttime would most likely be the opposite. If we assume there would be 16 hours of darkness, I would guess that at least half of it would be spent sleeping, probably in 2 chunks. Maybe 4 hours of sleep, 8 hours of fun-time followed by another 4 hours of sleep before getting back to the daily grind.