When is a consonant simply followed by labliasing sound like /u/ or /w/ and when is the consonant itself considered palatised or labialised? For instance, French point, in IPA, /pwɛ̃/ and Croatian pjevati /pjêʋati/. Contrast this with Polish śpiewać which may have IPA /ɕpʲɛvat͡ɕ/ or /ɕpjɛvat͡ɕ/ or English swoon may have IPA /sʷuːn/ or /swuːn/ but usually the latter. The answer, I would guess, is when the phonemic difference is contrastive. This is problematic because in many phonetic transcriptions of words which do mark consonants with a raised modifier (see Polish and English above), the sounds are not contrastive in the language described. 

Classicists have never been ignorant of this. The knowledge of the relationship is as old as the languages themselves. Monasteries maintained vast collections of codices and manuscripts dating from the classical era to the 12th century. Many still survive. Philologists can trace the evolution of simplified Latin with little need for putative reconstructions. What we would now describe as the Romance languages were simply regarded as vernacular lects of Latin at the time. The oldest attestation of what is described as Castilian, the Glosses of Emilianus, has Latin in the very same codex. Even today, Western Romance languages are not divergent to the point of no intelligibility. No native could fail to miss the connection between French and Latin even if we assume zero exposure to the other's culture or history. In addition, Romance languages are defined by their genetic relationship to Latin. The family that best corresponds to the other branches of Indo-European (Slavic, Celtic, Indo-Iranic, etc.) are the Italic languages of which Romance is the last extant clade. Romance is a relatively young language family. It dates to the early first millennium. 

Jephetic language theory was the antecedent to Indo-European theory. It was the product of the late Medieval standardisation and grammaticalisation of speech which allowed for the future systematic analysis of language. Jephetic language theory has its basis in Noachian genealogy from Genesis. Like TKR said, the first to exclude Semitic from Jephetic was Marcus Zuerius van Boxhorn, before then there was an assumption that there was a first order genetic relationship between the two super-groups. The language group van Boxhorn called "Scynthan" is an early formulation of Indo-European. Similarities between German and Latin were known to Gottfried Leibniz. Proper historical linguistics only comes with the advent of the comparative method. The impression has been there since the first modern grammars so it only took a few years for someone to apply scientific inductive methods. 

I offer another perspective although I like the first answer. The proto-Human language is not reconstructable. Two deep (and highly putative) language families that have been suggested by historical linguists are Niger-Saharan and Nostratic. Were these to be genuine, they would date to the early Holocene and Epipaleolithic respectively. Owing to great internal diversity, the Khoisan and Australian Aboriginal languages remain as strictly geographical superfamilies with no demonstrated genetic relationship between internal families. There is a consensus in lexiostatistics that there is a meantime to happen for semantic shift. After a predicable number of years, a semantic value will be replaced with a new word. The replaced word isn't always recoverable. The meantime to happen is contingent on phonology and the semantic value of the word. Even the more stable items on an ordered Swadesh list (we, two, I, eye, mouth, louse) can't survive indefinitely. After about 9,000 years, most of these conservative words will have been replaced. Eric W. Holman, Aharon Dolgopolsky and Sergei Starostin were the chief linguists of this discipline, glottochronology. To return to my examples, in Niger-Saharan (now completely abandoned) all that is reconstructable outside some typological features are the single phonemes of alleged noun classifiers. Nostratic is relatively better substantiated but not even that comes close to qualifying as as a language related to the proto-Human language. As well as onomatopoeic words for mother, father and birds there are areal terms which travelled with prehistorical human technology. "Pan-African" glosses include */bVr/ for ashes and */um/ for nose. I former is most likely areal and the second onomatopoeic. 

Quick question, and perhaps a natural extension of some of my previous questions. For the girl speaking here at 1:09, what phonetic and phonological characteristics of her accent, and how do they give it away that she is Chinese American? While she definitely has LA area intonation patterns, I don't think solely that comprises her accent, as I can certainly imagine caucasian speakers from LA speaking with that intonation. I feel, vaguely, there's something about her pitch being different on average, and perhaps something about her formants being broader(?), almost post-pubescent, if that makes any sense at all? If not, please just disregard this. 

I'm looking for a corpus of Asian American accents so that I might parse them and determine what phonetic/ phonological differences differentiate them from other American accents. By Asian-American accents, I'm thinking something like this, wherein the speaker is a US-born native English speaker with little to no proficiency in Chinese or another East/ Southeast Asian language, but whose parents speak the given East/ Southeast Asian language heavily in the home and whose L2 English itself is accented. The male speaker at 0:22 here would be a good example for a male Asian American accent. It's an oddly specific request, but I can provide more examples if there's difficulty determining what accent I'm talking about. 

I'm a non-native English speaker at a California university absolutely fascinated by the variety of English accents I encounter in my day-to-day life. I have a co-worker with a Singaporean accent, for example, and hearing it in both her Chinese and English is just really cool. While I have some formal linguistics training and can hypothesize certain phonological rules governing my peers' accents, I was wondering if there exists any kind of encyclopedia or authoritative resource regarding the formal elements of the accents of non-native English speakers, or regional English accents. I'd like to have a more structured understanding of the accents around me, so that I might, for example, more precisely think about and describe my Mandarin speaking coworker's "abrupt" English, or the pitch structure in the sentences of my Vietnamese coworker, and be able to reproduce these accents myself (as an exercise, and to blend into certain communities when appropriate). I see plenty of anecdotal examples in introductory phonology texts, e.g., metathesis in AAVE, glottal stops in the L2 English of native Vietnamese speakers, etc., but is there a resource that compiles this information, such that I could search a particular language and it would provide phonological information? 

I'm currently studying Japanese and Korean for professional reasons and have become very interested in Middle Chinese as the hearth of substantial vocabulary in many East Asian languages. Recalling my days studying Latin in high school, I've become interested in learning, or at least exposing myself to, Middle Chinese of c. ~1000CE but have found finding learning resources very difficult. Interest in learning such a language, however, presumptiously assumes the language has been fully reconstructed. While I'm certainly able to track etymologies of individual words to their Middle Chinese forms, see for example Example of Japanese's Borrowing from Middle Chinese, knowing isolated words is hardly satisfying. Can one learn Middle Chinese in the way one might learn Latin or Ancient Greek? How fully has the grammar, lexicon or syntax been recovered? Understandably, with no written texts and native speakers, this may be little more than an academic exercise, but for me, understanding the etymological context for Japanese and Korean vocabulary would certainly be worth the effort. 

According to research by Asifa Majid and Niclas Burenhult, there are some languages that use more abstract odor words, see Odors expressible in language, as long as you speak right language. It appears that speakers of Jahai can describe odors with the same ease as colors: “Majid and Burenhult found that Jahai speakers could name odors with the same conciseness and level of agreement as colors, but English speakers struggled to name odors.” At Warum Gerüche so unbeschreiblich sind (srf.ch), there is an example word from Jahai: pʔus describes the odor that is found in old rice, boiled cabbage, mushrooms and some hornbill birds. Majid and Burenhult speculate that the ability of Jahai speakers to precisely name odors is determined by their culture. It comes from the importance of the odors in their everyday life as hunters and gatherers in the Malay Peninsula rainforest. 

In late 19th century German linguistics (where the term was introduced, if I am not mistaken), geminates referred to (long) consonants with a two-peak pressure contour. Hence “geminated”. By contrast, a simple long consonant has only one pressure peak. There have been attempts at measuring the double peak in early instrumental phonetics, for instance in Dieth and Brunner (1943): «Die Konsonanten und Geminaten des Schweizerdeutschen experimentell untersucht». The results were inconclusive. There is another notion of gemination in phonology where it refers to a long consonant that corresponds to two elements on some layer of phonological analysis, whereas a simple long consonant corresponds to a single element that is lengthened (for instance in Ham (2001): Phonetic and Phonological Aspects of Geminate Timing, or in Kraehenmann: Quantity and Prosodic Assymetries in Alemannic). This is very theory-specific. 

I do not believe that your observation about English is correct. The verb to drink when talking about alcohol is not instransitive, because it can take a direct object. Its meaning is context-dependent. Imagine you are talking about a toddler who “drinks a lot”, or about Lawrence of Arabia who came to an oasis and “drank a lot”, or about an athlete who takes good care of their body and “drinks a lot”. Chances are good that nobody would think of alcohol. As per your question about languages having a specific word for drinking alcohol: I do not know such a language. It would not surprise me, though. I know about German that has two different words for ‘to drink’. They are differentiated by the nature of their prototypical subjects: The word trinken is prototypically used for humans, while the word saufen is prototypically used for animals. 

The habit of using the term gemination as a synonym of ‘long consonant’ has always seemed rather unfortunate to me. I think the term long consonant is preferrable because it is less obscure and has no history of referring to concepts that go beyond mere consonant length. With regard to Ancient Greek, gemination in the first, phonetic sense is pointless, unless there were ancient grammaticians who had observed a double peak in pressure. Some authors may have analyzed it using some phonological sense of gemination, but I wouldn't know about that.