While we were cycling down the pacific coast of the US, my girlfriend and I met a swiss couple who had been touring the world for 15 months. They didn't move very fast, but they had covered thousands of miles. Here is what I remember from their setup: 

Mavic wheels have three bearings -- one of the bearings is just for the freewheel. If you're experiencing really bad drag from the freewheel, it's possible this bearing needs to be replaced. Tearing apart the freewheel is not terribly difficult, but if you don't have a nice space to work in it could be kind of a pain. For comparrison: when you replace a casette, you're about halfway to the wheel bearings. If you do decide to do it, I would recommend cleaning everything as much as possible, and then re-greasing it. The trick with grease is to use a very small quantity. It's really important to keep things lubed, but excess grease can be a source of friction. I do think it's important to use grease rather than oil, because grease will protect the parts from water and dirt more effectively than oil will -- just be sure to use a very thin film of grease, and you're good to go. 

Details: The front wheel repair (called "truing") should be around $20 plus another dollar or so to replace the broken spoke. While I haven't used hockey tape, others have had success with similar cloth tape as long as you're not buying extremely cheap stuff. You'll get more padding with standard synthetic handelbar tape (contains a bit of foam or synthetic cork) which starts around $8. By watching various youtube videos, you can wrap these yourself very easily. (Also, cheap cloth tape will be more messy and sticky and won't be as easy to unwrap and start over.) A reputable, friendly, quality bike shop will help you get your bike in safe, rideable shape for the least amount of money possible. Insist on the bare essentials for a safe ride, but listen to anything that they say is a true hazard. Technically, you can ride a bike frozen in a single usable gear, but a few affordable tweaks of the drivetrain and replaced cables can mean riding a bike that is much more enjoyable and capable of taking you anywhere you want to go. Given your bike and needs, a basic $50 tune up will get them to look at and repair the necessities which wouldn't include the wheel repair and handlebar tape mentioned above. Remind them you're on a budget and are going to try to do some improvements (handlebar tape) on your own. Showing this initiative sometimes helps. Be wary of anyone that steers you toward purchasing an entirely new bike. A good shop will have low-budget options and might even secretly do a few tweaks and fixes out of pride and a sense of responsibility to someone who is giving such a lovely old bike, new wings. 

I've been in a number of situations where I was really glad to have a master link that I could pull apart. I'm a big fan of Sram's chains, and they're pretty reasonably priced here in the US. In your position, I'd try hard to find a chain with a master link. With that in mind, it's worth having (and even carrying with you) a spare master link. If you do blow apart your chain, being able to put it back together is well worth the extra few milligrams in your bike pack. Since they seem to come in 4-packs, it'd probably be fine to just find a chain and buy a pack of master links. 

My girlfriend and I inflate the tires on our touring tandem to 90 psi. The bike carries both of us plus two fully loaded panniers in the back. At 90 psi in the tire with what probably ends up being over 350 lbs on the bike, we have never had a pinch flat. That said, I drive the bike very carefully to avoid hitting anything with a sharp edge (lots of driveways have a nasty edge on them). I wouldn't recommend over-inflating your tires (they're rated for a reason), but if you're getting a lot of pinch flats, you might consider riding a little more conservatively. A little caution can go a long way toward making things last. 

I like my Spin Doctor Pro G3 due to the stable tripod base that works well inside and out on a variety of surfaces. Though it might not be necessary for some, I like that I can swivel the bike around the main vertical post to reposition my working angle on the bike (sometimes I'm on a stool). I don't think it's as easy or even possible to do that with some of the bipodal stands. Some people do not like the spinning knob used to operate the clamp. I find that it allows a nice sense of how tight I'm clamping various bike tubes as I close it. When I'm forced to clamp a thin tube on a road bike frame, I'm not quite as paranoid that I'm going to scratch or dent it. I'm also less likely to hold the frame tube at a bad angle and slam a clamp closed onto it because of the gradual but still quick and easy process. 

The Fuji VALite 1769 bicycle is a higher-end bike of its time and unless something really bad has happened to it, would definitely be worth getting parts repaired or replaced. 

I've talked to a lot of folks about chain lube. I've met quite a few people with strong opinions, and they vary wildly. Some folks swear by paraffin wax based lubricants like the White Lightning line of lubricants. Other folks swear by oil-based lubricants like Phil's Tenacious Oil. Still others won't ride without a teflon based lubricant like Tri-Flow. Everyone who swears by one of these three types of lubricants will tell you the others are terrible and will destroy your chain or some other nonsense. The rhetoric is silly -- each of them works well enough. I've had good and bad luck with different products in each category. When it comes down to it, you just need to find a lubricant you like and use it. The biggest deal, according to some very experienced mechanics I've talked to, is to keep your chain clean. Your chain needs lubricant on it, but it doesn't take much to keep it lubed. The big thing that destroys chains is dirt. If you clean your chain frequently, it will last a lot longer. When you clean it, you should be able to run your finger along the links (the top or bottom, not the sides) and have your finger come away with a little bit of lubricant on it. If there's nothing there, you should lube your chain. If you do this, what lube you choose won't matter nearly as much. That said, there are some differences to take into account. The two things I think most about are waterproofness, wetness, and application instructions. 

All that said, most modern bars have some visible demarcations on either side of the clamp area that makes eyeballing and/or measuring to the left and right of the stem pretty easy, without all this silliness. 

Work a bit on smaller bunny hops - maybe up and down a curb - until you can start to feel yourself landing with a bit less force or until you get a sense that you are anticipating the landing. It was easier for me to yank and jump higher, but it took a while for me to learn how to jump in such a way that I was landing more gracefully and not thrashing my bike, body and wrists. The finesse and feel takes longer but is worth it! Everything happens in such a short period of time it's a little tough but you'll start to feel what works and what doesn't. 

It's not a terrible idea to take any bicycle wherever you want or need to go within your riding skill limits as there are unique challenges with different surfaces and obstacles. Wider tires generally allow wider applications. With proper inflation, on pavement, a wider tire will be just as fast as a skinnier tire and may even allow you to ride more efficiently, quickly and confidently through turns or when rough surfaces, cracks or potholes appear. 

So there you go: there's no one answer. If there were, you wouldn't see so many products on the market. If you give it some thought, and do some experimentation with a couple of the products that suit your needs best, you should settle on something you can use well, and go through slowly. Chain lube doesn't need to be a big expense. 

Another trick for finding leaks that I don't see mentioned here is soapy water. Pull the tube out, and make a preparation of very soapy water. I particularly like dish detergent (e.g. dawn) because it is so concentrated, but any soap should work. When you brush soapy water over the tube, the air escaping from any leaks will form soap bubbles. If you don't have a great place to submerge it, this trick can be a lifesaver. When you're looking for a slow leak, you want to find the cause of the leak. To do this, it's important to mark the tire, the wheel, and the tube in some way so you can figure out exactly where the hole came from. You can use the valve stem on the tube and the rim to figure out where they fit together, but you should mark the tire to indicate where the tire sits in relation to the valve stem. If you do this, and keep them oriented the same (i.e. don't flip them over as you work on them), you should be able to find the leak and to find the place in the rim and the tire that's near the leak. Once you find the spot, inspect the rim and the tire. Any problems with the rim should be fairly obvious if you run your finger over them; check it and move on to the tire if you don't find anything. When you are inspecting the tire, start by running your finger over the offending surface. If you feel something sharp, be sure to dig it out. If that doesn't work (and with a really slow leak, it often won't), you'll need to get more aggressive. Turn the tire inside out, and fold it over in that area. The fold should stretch the inner rubber wall, and any holes caused by punctures will be more obvious. Find the hole, and then dig around in the hole with a small screwdriver or something. I've often found little shards of glass or bits of wire embedded in the tire itself. You can't feel it, you can't see it, but it can still puncture your tube when you go over a bump just wrong. 

You can practice making the bunny hop more of a fluid movement. Imagine a jump without a bike over something quite tall: 

Use masking tape to secure a ruler (meter/yard stick) such that you can determine a precise midpoint measurement at the center. Tie a length of string to this midpoint, and hang a weight at the end of the string. Place the drop bar, evenly, onto the edge of a leveled table or bench. Rotate the drop bar until the "plumb bob" you have created comes in contact with the center point of the stem clamp area of the handlebar. Mark with this location with a maker or pen in a location that you will be able to see near the opening of the stem clamp. 

You may want to considered a hybrid system that utilizes a battery store that the generator feeds into so you can work within the limitations of the hub generator, but supplement it with additional battery light(s). Generally, this sort of thing is for recharging gadgets and not necessarily running additional lights. $URL$ I'm certain there are electrical experts that could answer if the hub is just a trickle charger for a battery during daylight hours or what the limitations of such a system are based on voltage/amperage/ohms requirements for the various devices. There's also probably some concern around how the battery lights connect to the system. More of an alterative to investigate instead of a clear answer. 

On our tour, we met a great number of foreign tourists who had visited many countries by bicycle. Generally, their touring gear was not terribly different from what we ride with in the US. Sometimes it's worth going to a less efficient but more widely available component (like 26" wheels), but generally the most unique thing about a world touring bike is the rider. To make it a good touring bike all you have to do is ride it all over the planet. 

I use a park tool breaker in the shop, but when I'm on the road it's nice to have something very small and light. The Cutter Shorty is a packable bike tool that includes a chain breaker. While not quite as easy to use as a park tool, it's perfect for packing with you. That and a spare master link, and you're set. 

Waterproofness: If you ride your bike in the rain, you need a lube that will resist washing off. A lot of the inexpensive lubricants you can buy are not very waterproof, so by the end of your ride the whole thing has washed off. That's bad for your chain. If you look at the lubricants you're considering, the bottle should explicitly say if it's waterproof. For this condition, Phil's Tenacious Oils work pretty well, as does Boshield's T-9 lube. Wetness: Some lubricants leave the chain with a glistening wet surface. When you put it on, you should be able to wipe this off a lot, but some lubes (like oils, and some of the teflon-based lubes) will leave an oily sheen whenever they are present. This oily sheen can pick up dust from the environment. If you're riding in a dusty environment you want something that will dry completely and still work. For dry conditions, Tri-Flow makes a product that dries completely and leaves a teflon lubricating layer. Boshield's T-9 is good here too -- it dries and leaves a parafin wax lubricating layer. Application Instructions: Different lubricants require different rituals to apply them. Some of them suggest you put them on the chain, wait 30 min, and wipe off the extra. Others suggest you lube the chain and immediately wipe off the extra. Some even suggest putting it on the chain, wiping off the extra, and then letting the bike sit in a warm space for 12 hours before use. Depending on what you're doing, this may be impossible. My girlfriend and I accidentally bought a bottle of the "sit in a protected place for 12 hours" stuff on a bike tour, and it was terrible. We were camping, we had no protected place for it to sit. When you apply the stuff "wrong", it works very poorly; we were applying it every 2 hours of riding, and still getting some nasty wear and squeaking. 

Being rigid, stiff or having bad timing with any of that will cause harsher landings with or without a bike. Trials riders dropping from large heights extend the rear wheel and have that land first with their legs absorbing the landing with the front wheel landing a bit later. Trying to refine your technique with smaller jumps will help by focusing on the sequence of things to make you and your bike act like a big spring: 

Tire width has a large impact on bike performance but should be considered alongside tire qualities such as suppleness and proper inflation. 

Details... The primary and most notable difference between two identical tires (same tread, suppleness etc.) of different widths will be the amount of suspension they provide over bumps, cracks, rough surfaces and other irregular terrain. A lesser but notable difference will also be the size of the contact patch where they connect with the riding surface. A skinnier tire (with equivalent inflation) has less capacity to deform so can provide less suspension and insulation from irregular surfaces. It also provides a slightly reduced contact patch to grip the road, potentially diminishing the bike's 'sure-footedness' when cornering or braking. I think aerodynamic differences and weight are not notable concerns given your tire sizes and application. The only caveat is that any tire you choose should be properly inflated for the weight the bike is carrying. Too much pressure and there is no suspension from bumps. Too little pressure and bumps could cause flat tires, wheel damage or an accident. Knobs or varying tread patterns and various designs and types of tires change considerations somewhat but even a nice, wide, good quality tire is important for a high-end, fully-suspended downhill race mountain bike. A bike compatible with wider tires will usually have room for fenders and you can always put thinner tires on if you want to run your own experiments.