All results come back positive. I have looked at the certificate store on my local machine, I see a certificate under Personal/Certificates issues by Communications Server, and from what I've seen online this is part of the Polycom/Lync setup. I don't however see anything similar in the Trusted Root store...should it have something in there? In AD Attributes I verified my msRTCSIP-PrimaryUserAddress setting is the same as my SMTP address, but my sAMAccountName is different to logon to the domain (saw one place saying this had to be the same, but others saying only the SMTP/SIP needed to be the same) and the same as my UserPrincipalName. So anyway, I'm kind of at a loss, I have tried everything I can think of and so far I've had no luck getting this phone to connect up to Lync. Exchange and Lync seem to work fine, OWA, EWS, Autodiscover, DNS settings are all right, but for some reason this won't connect. If anyone has an idea of something I could try, I would be very appreciative. Thanks in advance! 

It works fine for putting them all in on file, but I can't tell who's email belongs to who. I also ran it on my mailbox specifically but I'd rather not run that manually on every user as that would take awhile! I'm not a Powershell guru but was hoping someone out there has a firmer grasp and can help point me in the right direction of the commands to help break it down a bit more. Thanks in advance! 

I'm currently running a Windows 2008 R2 print server. Everything seems to work fine, except that i can't seem to cancel jobs stuck in the queue. One of our helpdesk asked me to give them rights to do this, and upon inspection, I couldn't cancel the job either (although I'm sure I could bounce the spooler which would have the same effect). It seems simple enough when I look online-- go to the print server, open up printer management, right click the server, properties, security and add the person or group you want to have rights. I've tried adding our helpdesk there as a group, individually, even adding myself and giving myself full rights. Every option gives me the same result. When I click "Cancel" or "Cancel All Docuements" I get the following error: Authentication Failed The error indicates that the action you chose requires a higher privilege than what you have with your account. Please contact your system administrator to verify that you have the privilege on the requested action. As far as I can tell adding the person or group where I was should fix it, but nothing seems to be working when I try it. I've even tried giving a user full admin rights on that server, putting them in the administrator group...same results. Anyone have any idea why I'm getting this and how to make it work? Thank you in advance! Don 

ACK! several folks have suggested the wonderful date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S style solution but nobody has mentioned the major caveat of '%' in crontabs... '%' it is equivalent to '\n' so your cronjob will likely fire and fail mystereously! You'll more likely want to simply escape it with backslash like this (and I also like to get some kind of inventory or other output to check that it ran). 

We run into this when editing CGIs... the #! interpreter line gets Ctrl-M on it somehow, rendering the executable not found. It looks like a perl error but is really the 'she-bang' interpreter line having 'nearly' invisible characters at the end. In our case, we found this after the file was written. try using dos2unix command to copy to another name and try hitting that. If it works, you've found your root cause. Sorry to say that I have no real workaround except to recognise the problem when I see it. --edit-- Our error message is usually: scriptname: file not found NOT the 'file busy' mentioned in the question. 

looking for spikes is an interesting problem in general. is your data noisy? Try using the TREND modifier like this 

First Things First by Covey was good for me.... isolating tasks into the 2D grid of 'important (or not)' and 'urgent (or not)' was insightful. Some of the urgent 'feeling' stuff is just not important. 

GomezNetworks or Keynote are good 3rd party payware services that can provide performance data and handle the javascript nature of the website. dotcom-monitor.com seems to be another service that might help, but the key point is that you likely want 'transaction' monitoring, not just 'hit this URL' (though dotcom-monitor can do a form POST directly), and you want them to have full browser emulation (ie: javascript), not just simple HTML POST/GET etc try googling 'web transaction monitoring service' 

to get a rolling 1hour average (or whatever looks like a good smoothing interval). use RPN to compare that to your current value and use another CDEF to highlight the spike. I have found limited value in percentage based banding around a moving metric. I've built interactive cgi's to help explore up/down spike detection using RRDtool and jQuery. 

I'm currently trying to setup a Polycom CX600 to test the operability with Lync. We have been using Lync for several months, but only really using the IM aspect. I didn't set the Lync server up initially but am trying to troubleshoot where the problem may lie. I'll explain my setup to better help track the problem down. Lync Server 2013 is installed on Windows 2008 R2. Domain Controller is Windows Server 2008, DHCP/DNS server role. To my knowledge there was no DHCP setup on the Lync server itself. My client is Windows 7 x64, fully patched. Lync client is 2013. We just have one Lync server being used internally, nothing on the outside, no federation, etc. Here's what I did: 

I've never attempted to restore a deleted individual mailbox and figure it's a good thing to have tried for when/if it's actually needed. I have a full backup from Monday (today is Wednesday), i have the GRT options checked in the backup for Exchange, I can browse through the backup job and find a particular employee's mailbox that I removed on Tuesday. My question is, is it as simple as selecting that checkbox and submitting the job? His account no longer exists on the network because he is no longer employed with us, i figured it was a good person to try this on. I see an option in Backup Exec that says "automatically recreate user accounts and mailboxes", so i assume i would select that as well. I guess it just seems too easy, and since this is a production server i wanted to ask around before attempting to restore this individual mailbox back. Anyone have any experience with this? Thanks. 

I'm running into a problem here, and I'm positive it's simply that I'm not doing something correct (as opposed to it not working). I have a current Exchange 2007 server setup with a third party cert for it on TMG. I'm currently testing Exchange 2010 and wanted to test OWA and Activesync as well (I'm the only mailbox on the server so far). For the life of me I can't figure out how to issue a self-signed cert and install it on the TMG server so that when i go to "mail.company.com" it likes it. I've done quite a bit of looking online but so far have yet to get a working solution. My last attempt I did this: Open Chrome, attempt to go to mail.company.com. It sees the cert as not trusted, i then export that cert to the desktop (this was done from my PC). Copy that cert to the TMG server. Open up certmgr and add that certificate to the Personal/certificate group (via import). Import was successful and I now see that cert as well as the working Exchange 2007 cert in there that folder. Open Forefront TMG and go to Firewall policy, add a new Web Listener, require SSL, select All Networks, click select certificates and I see the current 2007 Exchange cert there from the 3rd party, but not the one I just imported. What am I missing here? I do see that the certs in there that are available (and currently being used) are all "Class 3 International Server" certs, if that is relevant. The one I imported is issued by our Domain Controller. I just want to try to use the self signed cert for testing, to make sure it all works before moving forward. We will eventually just edit our current Exchange cert to work with the new Exchange server. It's been awhile since I messed with this, and I'm obviously missing something. If anyone could point me in the right direction I would appreciate it. Thanks! 

I think that you are asking, why use OUs with GPOs when I can use security groups? I can think of a few reasons: 1) Clarity. If you create a logical OU structure (e.g. create "computer" and "user" base OUs, create "server" and "PC" child OUs under "computer", create "administrators" and "accounting" OUs under PC, etc.) and link GPOs to their appropriate OU without changing the security filter, you will be able to understand at a glance what GPOs are affecting what user or computer groups. If you use security group filtering only, you'll need to examine each GPO's security filter or use some other time-consuming method to see what is going on. If you only have a few GPOs and you are the only person managing the GPOs it may not really matter, but as the number of GPOs and the number of people managing GPOs increases the security group filtering only method becomes very confusing very quickly. 2) Efficiency and manageability. GPOs linked to higher level OUs apply to all subordinate OUs. Through a well designed OU structure, you can effectively apply group policies with pinpoint precision and minimal redundancy. For example, more generic computer policies that apply to both computers and servers should be linked to the computer OU (e.g. generic IE/Edge settings, generic security certificate deployment, powershell environment settings, etc.), policies to apply specifically to PCs (e.g. client only Windows firewall rules, MS Office related rules, client software deployment rules) should be linked to the PC OU, and custom rules should be linked at lower level OUs (e.g. specific file share mapping, special permissions, etc.). If all your GPOs are linked to the same OU, you'll need to remember every time to change the GPO priority order so that more important/specific policies take precedence over more generic policies (this is extremely easy to forget). I think you find that troubleshooting "GPOs not applying" problems becomes much easier if you have a logical OU structure with minimized security group filtering. (NOTE: some group policies, like the group policy loopback policy, can behave in unexpected ways if you use security group filtering). 3) Speed. GPOs that use security group filtering take slightly longer to process. GPOs that use WMI filtering take much longer. It may not matter with only a few GPOs, but when your GPOs start numbering in the hundreds you'll need to think about optimization. If you want to minimize GPO processing times OU-based GPO assignment is the way to go.