Suggest he take off his shoes. @DavidSchwartz's answer is excellent. If, however, he does not want to invest in anything, and your workplace is comfortable with this, he could simply take off his shoes. Very likely, he's building up static because either his chair or his shoes are not grounding as necessary to keep from building up static. I know it can sound very unprofessional in some domains - and it is - so I don't suggest it unless your workplace is very relaxed and is absolutely fine with him doing just that. For instance, if there are high profile clients going in and out of your office all the time, don't do it. But if you're a kind of back-end tech company who basically sits in a back room all day, this could be an option. 

Prepare a list of things you're going to have to do for the client in addition to the project - i.e. if you're creating a template sometimes you have to upload it to the server and set it up for the client - it means extra work time and you should remember to bill for that. Same goes for extra consulting time over phone or email. After a year or two you will have all such issues on your mind and you will remember to bill the client for them. You can also tell the client that When you take on a project that includes some new technology/platform that you're not yet familiar with, you should take that into account - I belive that you shouldn't bill the client if you spend extra hours gaining new knowledge, even if it required for the client's project, unless the knowledge is client specific. For example if you want to take on web development projects using PHP & MySQL the client shouldn't pay for you to learn how to write a MySQL query or how to install a template in Wordpress but he should pay if he wants you to support/modify/patch his existing project written in PHP using some in-house libraries of some small software company Regarding fairness and to the point - if you spent the time for the project and handling client's technical issues then it is not zero percent progress - the progress should include the preparation steps as well. And if you spent the time resolving issues both of you had no control over then you should explain this to the client and he should understand that you've spent the time for him and you should get paid. Optimally all such issues would be in the contract and the client would be notified of the issue before you actually spend too much time working on it. If you want it to be completely fair then you can talk to the client, explain the issues and suggest to bill him by a lower rate for those specific issues, as @a_mediocre_riot suggested 

Without applying, you can't get the job! There is not a definite timeline you need to wait. The main concern, from a Recruiter standpoint, is when a candidate applies to tons of positions with no consistency. If your applications are focused, indicating that you are passionate about the career path and company you are pursuing, then you are fine to apply multiple times. There are many situations where not being selected is not a negative reflection of yourself. For example, they could have give preference to an internal candidate originally, and the next opening they decided would go to an external candidate. A general rule-of-thumb is that recruiting stories or rumors like "wait __ amount of time before applying again" might be an excuse used for not hiring someone who wasn't a good fit to begin with, however something that superficial would not be a reason to miss out on hiring someone who is a good fit. 

Alerts people of the need for quiet. Frequently, when people are jabbering away, it's not because they want to disturb, it's just carelessness. They hadn't thought of the fact that silence is appreciated. My guess is that a sign will take care of 80-90% of the problems. If the noise continues, they know already that quietness is appreciated; hence, you don't have to alert them of new information; you simply have to remind them of what the sign has already said. This gives you more authority, and therefore less of a confrontation is necessary to bring things into order. 

I would say, Say what you were going to say! (Though perhaps not the same way!) Honest and above board is almost always the best way to go. Honestly say that you would prefer to live closer to your job and that you believe their company may be a better fit for you personally. Something along the lines of, 

If you would create such list it would be much easier to predict the amount of work - you won't have to think about the whole project but of each separate element/point It would also remind you of the possible issues you could come across As a bonus the client would know exactly what he's getting and for some problematic clients the list would prevent them from demanding extra work that supposedly had to be done in the same project and if some extra issues arise, that weren't mentioned earlier then the client should be billed for them but you should always tell the client in advance that if for example you have to upload the files for the client, instead of just zipping and emailing the files to him, then he must provide the correct account credentials and if there would be a problem with the account then he will decide whether he wants to pay you for handling the issue or he wants to call his hosting company and get their support to handle it... 

Great question! Here are a few things I have learned both from personal experience and from talking with others. 1. Keep up with technology Don't get comfortable. Don't get complacent. Technology is always advancing. Don't wait for HTML6 to be the standard: jump on board ahead of time. Don't wait to catch up with technology, keep ahead of it and wait for it to catch up with you. If you don't have the freedom to do that at your job, do it at home. This will give you at least two advantages: 

Communicate with your superior. From what you're saying, it sounds like your responsibility is essentially to get the job done at the price and in the time that your superior expects. From what I'm reading, at any rate, it sounds like you're basically a facilitator between the superior and the subordinates to, as you said, keep them "on track." When something like this comes up, your superior has to know about it. He is the one whose pocket is going to be hit: essentially, it sounds like you are there to keep this kind of thing from happening. When you talk to him, you should clarify at least two things: 1. Is this person your subordinate? You mentioned that it wasn't official that you are really responsible for this person. If you aren't, this issue isn't in your department, and you can just alert your superior of it and pass on to other things. Whatever the case, there should be an official position on it. Request that it be made official if at all possible. 2. What should be done in this situation? Mention that this is an issue, and ask him / her what (s)he recommends you do in this situation. Should you work out a different way to work hours? Should you send an official warning that this behaviour is not acceptable? Should you leave it totally in the hands of your superior? 

RESULT: Applying now has no negative impact, but it could be the positive difference-maker in landing a job there. 

No, do not wait! Three months is not too soon - begin applying now. To directly answer your question, there is no such thing as your application being "lost in their system." Every application is associated directly with the position to which it is submitted. So, you should apply to any and all positions of interest - you are not capped at one application after which your application is "lost in the system." Finding a job is a full-time job itself, and it can take weeks just to start hearing back from companies. Here is the worst-case scenario if you apply now, along with some common scenarios that are more likely. Worst-case Scenario: You apply now, and the company reaches out soon. You are honest and discuss timelines. A good Recruiter would bring it up, but you should ask if they don't and alert them to your situation. If your timeline is unrealistic, they will let you know. You should use that opportunity to let them know you are interested in their company in the future, and ask the Recruiter for any insights into future openings, other types of positions that might be a good fit for your background, and any career advice they might have. RESULT: You have now gained additional insight into the process, a connection at the company you are interested in, and even the possibility that the Recruiter reaches back out to you for their next opening! Common Scenarios: 

The problem will partially solve itself once you gather more experience handling such issues as it will take you less time to handle and you will take such issues into account when you predict the amount of time it will take you. A nice tip is to double (or even triple) the hours you initially predict as there will always be some surprises When the client approaches you with a project you should create some sort of technical specs for the project or at least a list, specifying all the elements you will handle for the client. Afterwards you should make it as detailed as possible (don't worry - it will go faster once you get the hang of it) and once each element is detailed enough it should be easier to predict the time for each element. You don't have to show the complete detailed list to the client but I find that showing at least bullet points allows the client to remember extra issues he forgot to mention, both of you will know what you've signed up to do and as a bonus you will be able to explain why it would take the time you're asking to pay for. As a simple example - if the client orders a login form then the list could be: