The standard emergency tinder in most places I have been is a lichen called Old Man's Beard. It can appear in several forms. Here are the first two from Wikipedia: 

How do I know which way is down wind? I turn so the wind is coming around me from the back and is equal on both right and left sides. I feel it in my hair, on my face, and on exposed arms and legs. If the direction is variable, use an average direction. Is there a direction it comes from more than 50% of the time? The other directions are probably close to the dominant direction or likely flip flop between two directions. If the goal is to place food so that lions, tigers, and bears (oh my!) don't traipse through my camp following the scent, then there is a wide swath of area which is "good enough". Getting the angle to within 0.001° isn't necessary. In fact, having it within 180° should be fine. Maybe even 270°. More importantly, place the food far enough away that finding the food doesn't make the camp an apparent "next target". In bear country, I find two or three minutes hiking distance (over easy terrain) is a fair compromise between remoteness and convenience of retrieving "just one more thing." 

If one were to discover a leaking section of fabric during a rainstorm, a highly effective solution is to rub wax (candle, ski wax, paraffin, etc.) on the fabric. No need to heat it: rubbing cold works fine. It is better to apply from the outside, but it works okay from the (more comfortable and convenient) inside too. One rubbing generally lasts for several days. 

I am a 25+ year scuba divemaster. Alas, poor fin kicking technique is very common, even among experienced scuba divers. First of all, selection of a fin which is too flexible is better than one which is too stiff (within limits). If you sometimes use a full 7 mm (1/4 inch) wet suit and other times no wet suit, you likely need two sets of fins. Same for snorkeling/swimming versus scuba. The extra bulk of wetsuit/tanks/weights/BCD is appropriately matched with longer and stiffer fins than when skinny dipping. (I am not sure if it is proper when wearing only fins to call it skinny.) It is nearly impossible to select the appropriate length and stiffness in a store (at least by a novice). Fins need to be test driven. One lap in a swimming pool is usually enough to determine a good match. Fins are designed with a variety of parameters. One of the most important is their buoyancy. If thrown into the water, do they sink or float? Sinking is good for kicking technique—especially on the surface (swimming) where density helps keep the fins in the water. If you'll be at depth (scuba), non-buoyant fins are more comfortable and easier to control—unless your swim will have elements of Cirque du Soleil. However, when removing the fins, there is a definite advantage to buoyancy so that $150 fins do not immediately tumble 700+ feet to the bottom between the Galapagos Islands (darn!). The most common fin technique inefficiency is "bicycling". The knees should not be significantly bending. This causes the fin angle to move a lot without moving through much of the water, so it provides little propulsion but a lot of wear and tear on the feet, ankles, and knees. Efficient kicking motion comes from the hips with the knees kept stiff. If done correctly, it won't be possible to rapidly kick—and that's okay. This video shows great kicking technique. Though he "dolphins" as for a monofin, but it works well with two fins, too. Notice how he moves the fins through a great distance but hardly flexes the knees. This video clip shows both frog kick and flutter kick (the latter I derogatorily call bicycling). Frog kick provides nice kicking variety because it uses an entirely different set of muscles. The flutter kick does have its use: the video demonstrates how it can be used to prevent kicking up clouds of silt and minimize coral reef damage when swimming near the bottom. By using long, patient kick cycles and keeping the ankles relaxed, stress on the ankles should be minimal. If you do feel the ankles getting sore or tired, stop, relax, and then continue with gentle large motions instead of rapid tiny kicks. 

Of course we agree on the fact, that cellphones aren't that good in the great outdoors cause they just don't work if you are too far from civilization. That's why we use devices like Walkie-Talkies etc. So, since everyone of us has a smartphone already, is there any hard- or software to transform these into outdoor-prove devices? So that I can stay in contact with my group even if there isn't any connection to the mobile network (and wifi of course)?! 

I often approach deer to see how near I can get and to watch them (just for fun - not to hunt). I take care for the wind and of course to be silent enough. What else should one consider stalking/approaching deer? 

Note: This test is only suitable for this specific product and not a general procedure for water purifiers! Use at your own risk for other models (and imho don't rely on it even for the example purifier First Need XL). 

Last time I was on vacation in Italy, I decided to go barefooted for a run on the beach in the evening. Lovely idea, wasn't it? It was not! The beach felt like a volcano! Which gear or techniques are recommended to walk/run on hot sand? 

According to Wikipedia (German Wikipedia - Truthuhn), there were several attempts to domicile turkeys in Europe since 1732. All of them were not successful at all. Still they kept on trying until 1993! 

I've heard that these two shafts are basically completely similar except for this wood/non-wood design. Is this right? This concerns me because the traditional shaft is more expensive. 

Where does such foam originate from? P.S.: I've seen such foam also on other waters already. It just was somehow this time that it made me wonder. 

Believe me or not but I'm currently playing a video game :) It's called "Ark: Survival Evolved". You've to survive in the wilderness and for example pick up berries to do so. There is a specific species of such which leads to dehydration if eaten (still, it fills up your hunger indicator). This made me wonder if there are any plants in real life with such characteristics? Would it be worth to eat them if you have enough drinkable water? 

A bow whose string touches a section of the limb ... Yeah, all these different bows may confuse a beginner. However, it's generally really easy like in this case. A recurve is simply defined as "a bow of which the string touches a section of the limb when it is strung". To further explain this definition refer to this image: 

I see a lot of (traditional) archers shooting 3D with stringdampers attached. As far as I know they slow your bow down. Okay, okay, it's minimal, but still... Also, as far as I know, the 3D targets don't hear anything ;). So, is there any reason - besides the style - to have them attached? 

An arrow's fletching should balance between providing good spin and minimizing drag. See the video here. Feathers: 

If you hike in a group, ideally arrange the sequence so someone big and not-so-bright is first. Maybe they won't notice the webs. :-) I have not ever seen anyone wear a mosquito net. Not during spider season. Not in the tropics, jungles, or rain forests. I have years of total trail time. But it is a great option and should be easy to pack for "just in case". In the Pacific Northwest, spiders have a definite web building season which lasts 3 or 4 weeks. In the lowlands, it tends to be September or October seemingly triggered by when temperatures drop or maybe when the rains begin. So there is no need to carry protection between November through July. 

The advantages of vanes probably call to many: cheaper and more predictable. I could not find a reason why Olympic competitors use vanes. Maybe it is an Olympic requirement? 

I live in western Oregon and frequently ski areas in the Cascades. One winter, a weather forecaster said the weather at a ski area was going to be warm and wet (mixed snow and rain) that day; another weatherperson said it was going to be very cold and dry. A rare forecast for sure. Both have excellent reputations and good forecast accuracy. Usually when one forecaster is very wrong, they all are—Mother Nature usually outsmarting them in unison. Unlike most places, the Pacific Northwest is supposed to be one of the most difficult places in the world to accurately predict weather (said several meteorology students at university). Turned out both weather forecasts were correct—simultaneously. As I skied down a major ridge, the warm and moist air to the west was blowing over the ridge and mixing with the very cold dry air on the east side. It formed a rotor (horizontal cyclone) in the lee of the ridge which formed dense fog, heavy snow, and strong wind which lasted for several hours. That day, the mountain was creating dramatically unique weather. 

Years ago I was caught in a totally unexpected and sudden blizzard/snowstorm. I started out the trip at 85–95°F (30–35°C) in August so I was totally unprepared for cold weather in the days when I owned a goose down sleeping bag only. I hastily found a reasonably wind-sheltered site, pitched the tent, and dove inside as the storm raged. An hour or two later, I felt the trickle of very cold water flowing (head to foot) through the ground-contacting portion of the sleeping bag. Turning onto one side bought perhaps 10 minutes of relative comfort. After about three repositionings, comfort was unattainable. So I got out of the bag and tent—standing naked in the fierce blizzard—and wrung out the totally soaked bag of several gallons of water (or so it seemed) and shook it vigorously to fluff it up. It was not dry, but at least it was not soaked. Getting back in the sleeping bag was heavenly: It was way warmer and I fell asleep immediately. However, soon it became soaked again and the cycle repeated throughout the night, something like once an hour. Not the greatest night's sleep. By first light (04:30) the storm disappeared and I got out to look. There was perhaps eight inches of Cascade Concrete™ (snow) with drifts of more than two feet. My tent site turned out to be a small gully which was draining maybe 50 feet (15 m) of the PCT. The temperature was chilly at about 10 °F (-12 °C) and my hands were too cold to do a decent packing job (why would anyone take gloves or mittens for summer backpacking?), so I basically stuffed tent and sleeping bag into—and onto—the pack. Though it was a three hour hike from the trailhead on the way in, it took more than seven hours to return because it was difficult following and finding the trail combined with the extra effort of walking in frequently deep snow. After considering this misadventure for decades, my advice for a soaking wet sleeping bag is: 

The old advice is to "Take nothing but pictures, and leave nothing but footprints". Almost any amount of memento-taking is going to lead to some kind of impact in anything but the most isolated of areas. The details of what is and isn't legal are going to vary with the exact area you're in -in the US, Wilderness Areas, a national forests, Bureau of Land Management's land, and state forests, all have different governing bodies and different sets of rules. Even different national parks are allowed to set their own rules. But I think they all prohibit you from taking mementos. And, besides all that, I find that in this age of social networking and photo sharing sites, a handful of good pictures can capture the experiences of my trips better than physical stuff does, although that's purely subjective. 

Scar Tissue You would need to strike a balance between doing enough damage to build callouses, and not doing so much damage that you cut yourself (and build scar tissue). Scar tissue is weaker than regular skin, and can take weeks to a couple months to fully heal, and get strong again. My somewhat related experiences In rock climbing, there's a technique called "hand jamming", where you use your hands as wedges to climb a crack system. I have met old climbers out West (Wyoming and California) with crazy thick callouses on the back of their hands. So, I'd say, yes, it apparently is possible to callous up skin on different parts of your body (in this case, the backs of your hands). Whenever I try and climb hard hand-cracks without athletic tape, I just scrape myself up, and get scars on my hands that take a while to fully go away. As a weekend warrior, I don't think I could duplicate the lifetime of climbing it would take to slowly build those calluses. I could probably devise a skin-training regiment I could do daily, or every other day, to toughen my skin up. But assuming my goal is to be a better climber, I have better luck just taping up, and working on my technique. (honestly, I think that's a better application of my limited training time). My $0.02 Edit: I should say, one of the climbers I met was an old guide, who had thicker calluses on the backs of his hands than most people have on their feet. He also had long, grey dreadlocks. It looked weird, but kinda cool. 

Sorry for not giving a single recommendation, as in many situations in climbing, there are multiple options, and its important to know what the tradeoffs are. Carabiner As per usual, you want to make sure your carabiner is loaded along its spine. That is, longways. So, one end of the carabiner will be running through the leg loop or belay loop, and the other end will have both strands of the autoblock coord. What I do I place my autoblock on my main belay loop, then extend my belay device with a PAS. The rope runs down between my legs, and I can use either hand to control my descent. My autoblock is made out of coord that I measured and cut specifically to be too short to catch up in my extended belay device.