Last fall I bought a sunfish, best I can tell is built in about 1974 (43 years ago) and has all original sails, sail rings (hold the sail to the spars), tiller, etc. Everything but the lines seem to be original. Yesterday it was sunny and warm, wind at about 9MPH, 15KPH, 8 Knots. I took it out to the lake for the first time since I got it. The was a lull as I launched and things went very well. On my third upwind leg (narrow lake) I got good wind and was on beam reach doing about 15MPH, then the outhauls and sail rings started breaking. This was something of a distraction, shore rapidly approaching, so I got a chance to practice my self recovery skills, when I tipped it over. After getting the boat upright, I was able to sail back to shore. I notice that several places sell "Sunfish Tune-A-Fish Kit" which includes Lines, sail rings, etc. Presumably there is some recommended frequency for changing out gear. How often should line, sail rings, etc be changed? 

I have been considering adding a sail to my open 17 foot Coleman canoe. Browsing images on the internet show pretty much every imaginable configuration but they all share 3 or 4 combinations of outrigger and/or leeboard. 

There might even be a bullet in the 2x4 your house is made from. We can see from the image below a bullet does not appear to harm the growth near the injury site any more than knot or broken branch would. 

Source Note that medical tests are available to identify this allergic reaction, Skin Prick Test (SPT) & Specific IgE Blood Test 

Feathers take dye well. Some references suggest that kool-aid can be used. You can use an off the shelf fabric dye. If you want to go natural you could use turkey droppings, and thin to get a consistency that gives the desired color. Regardless of which type of dye you use it will take trial and error to get the correct mix to give the desired color. You need not test a whole, feather cut it in to sections and possibly get 5 or 10 trials out of one flight feather. 

I recently came across a hiking boot maker with a front page photo showing someone walking off trail in ankle high boots that are untied. 

I have a 10+ year old pair of leather red wings boots with Gore-Tex linning. I wore them enough that the tread is pretty much gone, and never noticed a leak. But I am not walking through much water with them anymore. I also put mink oil on the leather occasionally. How long is Gore-Tex lining in boots effective? Is it distance or age that causes it to fail sooner? Do most experienced users really try to avoid Gore-Tex lining in boots? 

In the US this is sometimes called a schoolmarm (alt school-marm) there are a number of ways they can form. OSHA Logging terms As mentioned in the existing answer some trees like willow grow very aggressively and a low cut stump can have several shoots that grow in to trees. Two or more seeds growing in the same location can grow multiple trees. If there is sufficient sunlight neither new sapling will have a significant advantage and both will prosper. This can occur naturally or from manual over planting. Sometimes two forks of a tree will grow about the same. This can be an internal event for the tree, or due to an external trauma like the top of the main trunk of the sapling being browsed by wild life, leaving lower branches to compete to become one or more primary trunk. Schoolmarm's pose risks on two fronts. 

We have several posts about fire most of them are about specific challenges. A recent question had myself and others searching for fire starting basics. We don't seem to have a post about it. What does the novice need to know to start a camp fire? This is not a survival question. The novice has sufficient seasoned dry wood, paper or other man made materials to start a fire. 

It is/was probably at the 2014 National NASP Tournament – a certified Guinness World Book record – for the world’s largest archery tournament. Held in Louisville’s Exposition Center, 10,800 student-archers from grades 4 through 12 representing 39 states, including Alaska, competed. Google offers some other suggestions, but this looks like the best candidate. Other then the "Guinness World Book record" I am not finding details on size. 

A purely synthetic outer layer of Nomex is a good choice. People fighting wild-land fires generally wear Nomex It it works in the middle of a forest fire, you will probably be happy with it at the campfire. 

Barbwire fences are designed to keep cattle in or out of a designated areas. Barbwire intended to prevent human traffic requires additional measures. As previously mentioned it it may or may not indicate a boundary for a traveling human. Where the wire is not intended to halt human traffic there is generally a people/vehicle gate in near proximity to where people are expected to cross the fence. A person should go to, and cross the fence at the gate. There are a number of legitimate reasons for crossing barbwire fences where no gate is present. Assuming you are in one of those situations, consider this. Barbwire is strung tight for a reason, that is what makes it an effective cattle boundary. Stretching it to allow a human to pass between/over strands or using it as ladder to climb a post will alter its effectiveness at being a cattle boundary. That alteration can make the fence an ineffective cattle barrier and/or increase the chance that cattle will be injured by it. The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence 

Realistically there are also ventilation issues (as mentioned in comments, question and answer). Presumably there are similar results for other portable combustables like, propane, etc. Does warming an enclosed area with an open flame provide help with drying wet fabric? 

There are two significant divisions in (the US) RV/Camper protection market. Amperage: 30 Amp VS 50 Amp. The more electrical draw the more amperage is required to run it. Supply and demand should be balanced. In the United States three options are commonly provided, each uses a different style plug. A supply point may offer only one, any combination of two, or all three. 

Single VS Multiple: Some surge/EMS/products needs to be replaced. after protecting from a single event, others will reset and can be protect from multiple events. Single use devices have a lower initial cost. I have been unable to locate a single comprehensive list. There are a few manufactures of protective equipment, some surge/EMS/products protect from different events. Following is a list of protections provided by different manufactures. For simplicity focusing on 30 Amp, Multiple event, portable devices. I have only found 3 manufactures, I think my search tools are limiting results to US. 

Some of the answers here suggest really bad solutions. I recently researched an answer for the question Tick removal, to twist or not twist? it focuses on technique. While you can find lots of people with lots of suggestions, the only empirically (science based) proven techniques are to remove the tick in a timely manor with the correct tool, either fine point tweezers or a special tick removal tool. The CDC offers these great guidelines for tick removal with tweezers. 

I have a .357 revolver. The rounds have a significant amount of kick. When I go out target shooting the kick makes it unpleasant to shoot before I have gone through a full box of ammunition. Someone told me you can fire 38 caliber rounds in a 357, but I am not sure that is a good idea. Is it safe to fire 38 caliber rounds in a 357 magnum pistol? 

Research sources: while multiple references were used to create this answer. Much of the direct referencing comes from BADA-UK they are a volunteer charity, which had really good and completed descriptions and rationale for everything they posted. 

I often see Mangrove and Cypress swamps on T.V. and I think it might be fun to explore one in a canoe. My wife thinks we might get eaten by Alligators if we try it. I have no knowledge about alligators, so I suppose the best solution is to find a Mangrove and Cypress swamp that does not have Alligators. Are there Mangrove and Cypress swamps in the United States that don't have Alligators (or Crocodiles)? 

You don't need a trail. At the top of the bear tooth hwy you are above the tree line. You can stop along the hwy and see for miles. When you get to Top of the World there are some trees, but not far from there you can see forever. I took this way into the park, the views are extraordinary. 

The boat needs to either be stored under cover, or upside down so that rain does not enter the screen. It should keep bug and critters out, while allowing the moisture trapped inside to evaporate. Update Solution has been working well for 4 months. I don't have a way to weigh the boat, but it feels like it drying out and getting lighter. I changed the rope for bungee cord to get a better seal, to keep bugs out. But have had not noticed bugs getting in through the small gap that using the rope would leave on occasion. 

This is the plan B answer. It works but uses ferrous (will rust) parts. I found a source for Hex bolts, Zinc plated grade 8 steel yellow, 7/8"-14 x 2" I ordered it (Just under $10 with shipping.) When it arrived, I ran right out and screwed it into the drain. Perfect fit! 

A bit more side pressure and a bit more speed the leeboard will be above the bottom of the hull and the outrigger will be in the water. At that point the outrigger as doing all the work. From this we can assume that a hinged leeboard used with an outrigger provides little if any advantage. In fact I can't find any advantage to a hinged leeboard over no leeboard. The best documented low budget sailing canoe I have found online is the Q Canoe it has been used with both an 8 x 6 and 8 x 10 (foot) sail made from a tarp. It appears to have been used more than casually on the Mississippi River. It is using a single hinged leeboard, starboard side, that appears can be locked (with rope) in the up or down position. The excerpt below the image provides more information about sailing with only a leeboard. 

I have heard about people using electricity to catch worms, mostly around catching worms for fishing. How does this work? Is it safe? 

I know from personal experience that greenwood (freshly cut) does not provide as much heat energy as seasoned wood (has been down for 6-12 months). When burning it spends a lot of it's energy boiling the water out of the wood. It takes more green wood to provide the same amount of heat as you would get from seasoned wood. Assuming I let my firewood season for 12 months, if I burn seasoned fire wood and my neighbor burns green wood, how much more fire wood will he burn in season? According to the Wikipedia article Heating value of firewood there are a lot of variables. I am just looking for general rule of thumb. I always burn seasoned wood, but my neighbor just moved into his homestead and will need to burn greenwood this winter. How much more wood should he expect to need, compared to my normal usage? 

On the surface this seems like a rather simple question, But imagine if the question was "What should I look for in hunting gun?" Essentially the same question, just a different weapon. I found an article Now: Super Accurate Slingshot(Popular Mechanics Jan 1984) that talks about state of the art 30 years ago. Much like for guns there are entire web sites dedicated to the weapon The Slingshot Community as well as multitudes of articles. Google finds more than 7,000 hits for "slingshot hunting" in books. They are made out every material imaginable; wood, metal, composite. There are as many designs as there are firearms. There are also several options for elastic/rubber bands used. Much like firearms, there are lots of options. The big online (non-hunting specific) have 100's of options. When it comes to the weapon of choice, just like with firearms, personal preference and budget dominate the decision making process. As for ammunition, it can be anything from found objects like rocks, to factory made round object like ball bearings, or even arrows. In the end, all that really maters is practice. Pick whatever you want for the weapon, and the ammunition, just practice a lot with whatever you choose. You want your target to be dead on the first shot. Allowing an animal to escape with a broken limb is wrong. No matter what weapon you choose, how fancy it is or how much you spend, if you don't practice, you will not have consistent kill shots. 

You should consider that an angry or surprised deer can decide to attack. Deer kill people, excluding the 120 to 200 or so by auto accident in the US, deer also kill by attacking. reference1 reference2 I was not able to find accurate numbers but in the US count seems to be less then 52 per year, probably in the 1 to 5 range.