How can one better use an offer in hand to negotiate without risking a rescind? I see some obvious negotiation tactics here like asking me to get on the phone, saying that the lower of what I'm asking for is "higher" than they can provide etc. What other negotiation tactics do HR use and how can they be side stepped? 

Over that week, I tried to drag the conversation out as much as I possibly could, talking about other perks, RSUs, etc. to allow other companies to come back with their offers. Few days later, (Monday of next week): 

As Richard mentioned in the previous answer, train with someone you trust. I'd take this one step forward and suggest you train with someone who understands you, and can give suggestions to help you from an outside perspective. If you went to a university, they may have outplacement centers for alum. These people are really good, and will be able to give you some great help. You have the right idea with mentioning it upfront. I'd go a little different route than suggested by Richard. One thought is to address the problem you have like so: 

And the results are great. Everyone got in touch with other teams' members that, beyond these activities, wouldn't have an opportunity or reason to talk to each other. Besides these two, there are much more that could be done (even for small groups): 

Promote yourself. You know you're good, and you might be. But you must make everyone knows and believe on it. You're far away physically from your target... but nowadays, physical distance is nothing. Use the web on your favour! Some suggestions, following Amy's (+1!): 

I'd try to see the problem from the employee's perspective: what am I going to earn doing this? Why should I do this? It seems that keeping data updated is a 'nice to have' (assuming you didn't go medieval as JeffO mentioned!), and we know that nice to have is a fancy name for I'll never do it unless it's good for me. So, what could happen if employees don't have data updated? What's the objective on this initiative to get better data from employees? Is it beneficial to the company only? Is there anything good to the employees at all? Some (often) times, it's just a matter of getting to the root of the request and understand the real benefits expected with this initiative. In my company there's a similar scenario (with some specific data) and I know that this data is barely used (if used at all)... so I just left for the 11th hour to update it (and I don't invest more than a few minutes on it, as I know it'll be mostly a waste of time). Bottomline: To sell this initiative to the employees, you must be quite sure it makes sense to you and it's a valuable activity. Otherwise, you won't be able to convince anyone (besides that guy that sits at the corner and had no projects in the last few months). 

Meanwhile, I was talking to the other two companies to speed up their offers. Both the companies made an offer when I told them that I need to decide. One of the companies offered (x+15),000 above what the original company was offering. Next day (Wednesday): 

This does not answer your question of doing damage control, but this answers what you can do during next interview. I think there are two things you should do: 

At this point, I accepted. In this entire time, I spoke with the hiring manager twice to make sure that the job duties are what I think they are, and he was available on short notice. I also talked to a finance rep of the company about the RSUs and other aspects of the job offer. This is all to say that it seemed like they were genuinely trying to make everything happen so that I will join. This is a company that is one of the "unicorn" start-ups. I asked for very small increase and was met with a lot of push back until I could produce another offer. Note that: 

That's a very good question, and I'm looking forward for other answers. In my opinion, here's a checklist for items to pay attention to when going through a interview process: 

I know it's not an option to 'replace the coffee break' but still considered important to share as it gave, at some level, similar expected results... So, have you tried some out-of-office activities? Thinking of integration, I've started a similar wave in my company. We've done so far, two: 

The list is huge, but I believe we have here a good start. Reading on the internet about some recruitment processes (like THIS JoelOnSoftware article) is also very interesting. One last thing: Remember that there are two different things to be taken into account: one is the company itself, other is the interviewer(s). In most of the cases, one will be the reflex of the other, but don't take it for granted. 

A team member and I recently worked on a small part of a pretty big (and high profile) issue. This person looked up relevant details on the prod website and I looked up relevant details on the database. We each only have portion of the access. I came up with most of the theories on what is happening and why. Database is not well developed yet so we don't have full visibility into what is happening. After we were done, I said "Hey when you meet with the dev team, let me know. I'd love to join." and the response was "Yeah sure. I was going to fwd the invite to you anyway". There was a meeting the next day and I was not invited, nor was I CC'ed in any of the emails that were exchanged between the person and the team. I don't expect there to be any follow up meetings regarding this. I have worked in this company for a month. This person has been with the company for many years. They changed the team less than a month back and I imagine that they can contribute to this a little less than I can because background isn't security. The dev team and this person have no previous established relationship. Other than this one task, I have not worked with this person before so I don't know this person's work style. I don't want to come across as paranoid and insecure but I also don't want to be left out of important meetings this early in my time with the company. Should I be concerned that I am intentionally being left out? Or just assume ignorance until proven otherwise because this is the first time? Edit: I have been invited to meetings where future project requirements are being discussed. I take the role of sitting in a corner, being confused and making notes of questions to look up or ask later. This would be the first time I might've made a contribution because I worked on the issue being discussed.