They propose this scenario to explain the differences between the Solar System and other planetary systems in which large planets are found in the proximity of the starts. Among the many questions I have: How is it physically possible for such a migration to occur? Is there a way to verify the migration hypothesis with observations? How different would have been the hypothetical planets in the area currently occupied by Earth? If such a migration toward the Sun started, what prevented Jupiter from continuing inward and collapsing with the Sun? Is it possible for such a migration to occur again? 

Let's assume that a ship is traveling on the ocean and it sinks, what is the effect on the sea level? Even if the effect is small, would it go up, down or remain the same? 

In a recent study, Talone et al. (2014) compare 4 different geoids and evaluate their effects for oceanographic studies. The four geoids they used are: 

How much has the total available freshwater change over time? How much has it gone from one reservoir to another? How can we estimate future changes? 

They are missing $g$ in equations 4,5 and 6. When they go from the hydrostatic equation to equation 4, they forget to include gravity in their equations. All the dimensions except from $g$ and $f$ compensate each other and then $g/f$ produces the right velocity dimensions $m/s$. 

Sorry, but there just isn't enough detail in this photo, There are dozens of possibilities. A close up photo of a freshly-fractured unweathered surface would help. That's why geologists carry hammers and a hand lens. Even a good photo isn't necessarily diagnostic. The standard approach is to cut a thin section and analyze it under a polarizing microscope. Even experienced geologists can't always identify a rock just from looking at a hand specimen or field exposure. 

At first glance it does look a bit like granite, but on closer inspection it clearly isn't. There are at least three components. The dark grey clasts are mostly angular with some partly rounded, and hence are derived fragments of some other rock, possibly siliceous, but could be carbonate. There are smaller pinkish fragments, again possibly siliceous - detach a particle and test its hardness. The whole is cemented together by some whitish mineral whose composition and texture is impossible to determine from the photograph. So to summarize I would say it is a clastic sedimentary rock, or conceivably a volcanic agglomerate - though I doubt it. Like most rock photographs on stack exchange, there isn't enough detail to give a clear answer. Please also note that rock identification in general is not just by visual inspection. It's a combination of field associations, overall rock texture, macro- and micro- appearance, detailed optical properties, hardness, response to acid, 'streak', density and mineralogical associations. 

In 2009, the oceanographic community decided to adopt the Thermodynamic Equation Of Seawater - 2010 (www.teos-10.org) as the standard to calculate the properties of seawater. As part of that, they changed from the conductivity-based salinity (Practical Salinity, PSS-78, as part of the EOS-80) to Absolute Salinity (mass fraction of salt in seawater). What are the main differences between the two standards? Where in the world ocean should we expect to see the biggest differences between the two? 

There are two features that need to be distinguish here: one is the Hudson Submarine Canyon on the continental slope, which starts at around 100 m and connects to the deep basin; and the Hudson Shelf Valley on the continental shelf, which is much shallower (20-100m). 

For a general view of the surge in the region, the maps in u-surge give a pretty good idea of numbers and more affected regions. The USGS provides a comprehensive view of High Water Marks (HWM) in the entire region. If you are looking for observations, then the HWM database gives you the best spatial coverage. While HWM do not provide surge information per se as it includes multiple processes (like ocean surge from the storm, waves and wave run-up, and flooding from rivers and precipitation), it gives an idea of the extreme values of water level in many locations. It also shows the large spatial variability of the effects of the storm. There are also tide gauge and rapid response stations in the area as part of the USGS database that provides more information of the temporal evolution of water levels. Part of the problem is that storm surge is only the result of two processes: 1) wind piling water against the coast and 2) low atmospheric pressure that causes ocean level to go up. Additionally, you have many other processes affecting water levels during a storm or hurricane. The tides are still there as always and that adds complications because if the storm surge peak occurs during high tide, then the impacts are much worse. Tides in the Gulf of Mexico are not that high, but they can be a much larger factors in some other areas. The combination of storm surge and astronomical tides is often label "storm tide", which is a very poor name choice and leads to much confusion, as clearly the storm does not cause a tide. Another impact is that associated with the high winds, you have large wave heights. As these high waves approach the coast, they cause higher water levels as a result of wave run-up and wave setup. The magnitude of these wave effects can be pretty large in some locations especially in ocean-facing locations. The last main impact on water level is precipitation and the resulting increase river discharge. Clearly, Harvey had a catastrophic amount of precipitation and its impacts were much larger than the purely oceanic-driven storm surge in this storm. Many agencies are working on developing a measure of water level that includes all these processes. For instance a good example is the USGS effort to develop Total Water Level measurements and forecast. 

There isn't enough detail to identify the pink mineral (maybe orthoclase?), but the bladed blue crystals look very much like kyanite, Al2SiO5. It is quite a common medium to high pressure metamorphic mineral. If you go to Indian Kashmir you will have hawkers trying to con the tourist with kyanite sold as "Himalayan sapphire". It is not even closely related to sapphire, being much softer, and having an entirely different crystal habit. Kyanite is attributed with some mystic value by those 'new age dudes' who believe in such things, and hence is of some spurious value in the shops. 

One doesn't see pleochroic haloes in muscovite, I suspect because the crystal lattice of muscovite isn't conducive to developing inclusions of allanite and other radioactive minerals. I suggest you measure the 2V- to distinguish between muscovite and the paler varieties of biotite. Note that the more magnesian-rich varieties of biotite, i.e. phlogopite, can be very pale brown in PPL. I don't attach much credence to interference colours because the range of colours in muscovite and phlogopite overlap, and can appear very similar. Also, slightly coloured crystals tend to mask the interference colours, so it may be difficult to judge. One may ask 'why pleochroic haloes in biotite, but not in muscovite?', as in 2-mica schist. I can't prove it, but it is known that uranium adsorbs onto Fe-rich surfaces of the biotite, so my hypothesis is that adsorbed uranium serves as crystallization foci for adjacent allanite crystalls, which are then enclosed as inclusions as the biotite crystal continues to grow. You won't see this in muscovite because of the absence of Fe. It is curious that inclusions of magnetite can occur in muscovite, but not radioactive mineral inclusions - at least, not that I have ever seen. I don't know why. Anyone else have any ideas on this? 

A recent article by Yu et al. estimated that 28 million tons of dust from the Sahara fall to the surface over the Amazon basin per year out of the 132 million tons that remain in the air when the dust reaches South America. The deposited dust is rich in phosphorus and contributes 22,000 tons of P per year, which is about the same amount lost from rain and flooding. The question is: how important is this phosphorus to the biological production of the Amazon basin? Also, considering Yu et al. reported very large interannual variability, do we expect to see any variability in the production at annual to decadal scales? 

Direct measurements of three-dimensional ocean currents are carried out with acoustic Doppler current profilers (ADCPs). The ADCPs are usually moored and bottom mounted instead of being ship-based or attached to a floating mooring to minimize the vertical displacement associated with the vertical motions of the ocean surface caused by waves. The ADCP does not measure horizontal or vertical velocities at a point but determines Doppler shifts along three to five acoustic beams that are typically slanted (most commonly 60°) from the horizontal plane and spaced around the horizontal compass. The most typical configuration (Janus) includes four orthogonal beans. The Doppler shifts measure slant velocities of suspended acoustic backscattering particles moving with the water relative to the instrument. Pairs of slant velocities are combined to produce vertical and horizontal velocities. The underlying assumption is that velocities are horizontally uniform over the beam separation. Other instruments (e.g., Teledyne Sentinel V ADCP) have an integrated fifth beam to provide a third vertical velocity measurement. 

Just to add to Dave's answer, the above phase diagrams give the illusion of high precision. In fact, in addition to the temperature distribution, we are not even entirely sure how many sub-solidus phases there are. See for example, Ahrens et al: $URL$ Moreover I was rightly corrected, in a previous answer, when I asserted that the core composition is Ni-Fe with a large sulphur impurity. In fact, although I was probably correct, there is plenty of scope for S2, Ni and other heavy metals, H2, OH-, and other impurities in the core, at unknown concentrations, most of which can create a eutectic depression of the solidus line - that is, shifting the liquid-solid boundary down-temperature. 

Without the sun to keep the Earth's temperature topped up to something comfortable, what would be the equilibrium surface temperature range. It would obviously be a balance between outgoing radiation and geothermal conduction to the surface. This question is prompted by Anixx's recent question on planetary cooling time without the sun. 

Without examining it in detail my first thought is that you were correct the first time, and it is indeed garnet, most likely the almandine variety - which is by far the most common of the many garnet species. The colour, crystal habit and paragenesis all tie in with it being garnet. Fresh almandine is indeed harder than either quartz or feldspars, but maybe the garnet is weathered, and hence softer. Or maybe there is some corundum or other hard mineral in the matrix. I have also seen sphene of this colour in Sri Lanka, but sphene is obviously monoclinic, which this isn't. I'm pretty sure it isn't any kind of mica, which would look more lustrous, and have a flakey habit - easy to test with the tip of a penknife blade. Like MathWA I also briefly considered brookite, which has a plausible hardness of 5.5 to 6, can be pinkish, and is pseudohexagonal. But brookite is generally distinctly striated and more lustrous. Orthoclase doesn't have hexagonal sections, and doesn't form such obvious porphyroblasts. So I think I will stick with garnet as the most likely mineral. 

I recommend you read the original paper Lear et al. (2000). In it they explain that the results are controlled by processes in polar regions and likely associated with the polar surface temperature. The surface temperature will vary considerable depending on the proximity and extend of the deep water formation areas. As these areas are fairly local, relatively small changes in the location and extend of deep water formation can result in deep water temperature being altered. The uncertainty associated with using single cores to estimate global temperatures is thus quite large. What the authors suggest is a predominantly ice-free world during most of the Paleocene and Cretaceous periods and several ice-sheet expansion events during the Oligocene, Miocene and Pleistocene. If there is no ice, the polar and sub-polar deep-water formation is limited and the water temperatures in the deeper part of the ocean is much warmer. 

The idea of an "earthquake storm" has been around at least since 1970. Ambraseys (1970) describe multiple "earthquake sequences" lasting around 40-50 years with "quiet periods of more than a century in a nearby fault system (the Anatolian fault zone). In a study preceding the Nur & Cline work, Nur (1998) provided a possible explanation to connect earthquake damage with civilization collapse: 

Depends upon the species. If the pollen spores are large enough, and of wide spatial distribution, and easily recognizable, and preserves well in sediments, and of distinctive age range (geologically), then it could be used. There have been mistakes in the past where modern pollen collected in microscopic pores in older rock, giving the illusion of rock ages much younger than they really are, so precautions against sample contamination are of paramount importance. 

NCERT is an Indian document written from the perspective of the prevailing non-scientific educational culture, in which (for example) astrology is considered to be bona-fide science! Therefore it is not authoritative, and certainly not written accurately from the perspective of peer-reviewed scientific sources. It has been criticized before, and in this case it is quite incorrect to write that transform faults are significantly affected by the Earth's rotation. Rather, the NCERT quotation that you cite seems to confuse the Earth's pole of rotation with the Euler pole of rotation. The latter is a key concept of the plate tectonic movement between any two plates. The Euler pole of rotation can be at any angle with respect to the Earth's rotational axis. 

mBf refers to the Baltic sea level, which differs from sea level elsewhere in the world for two reasons. Firstly, the Baltic is less saline, and hence less dense, than the North Sea and Atlantic, to which it is connected. Consequently, since it is in quasi-hydrostatic equilibrium with the North Sea, it is also higher than the North Sea. Secondly, in response to the retreat of the Scandinavian ice cap, the land around the Baltic has risen by up to 9 metres per century. The current rate of change being 0.3 to 12.3 mm per year. Put another way, the apparent sea-level has fallen by anything up to 9 metres a century. The mBf is therefore used as the local sea level reference datum for such activities as estuary embankment works, mine drainage, and industrial cooling water intakes. See, for example: $URL$