Bigger and Stronger are not necessarily synonymous, you may want to get bigger looking, but you might not get stronger, and vice versa. I think the term you're attempting to describe is like progressive overload. I think what you're doing now is somewhat futile in that, you need to build your muscles, and condition them to handle more weight, more reps, etc. The weight increase should be steady and progressive. You may want to try and use those 25 lb dumbbells for some higher rep pyramid sets, doing things like 5 sets 20-15-12-10 and for example supersetting standing bicep curls with tricep extensions with little to no rest will create an environment for muscular hypertrophy. and muscular endurance. Both of which will help you when you want to increase the weight. If your interest is in Body Building or getting bigger, you will want to keep the moderate-high reps (9-12) with a somewhat heavy weight. If your interest is increasing your strength//oppose to getting bigger, you will want to increase the weight to roughly 80%+ max load, and do low reps (6 or less), pushing your central nervous system into extreme acts of strength, oppose to high consistency patterned demands on your muscle. I would say both activate a high amounts of fast twitch muscle fibers, but the high weight/low rep will activate more... I would also not leave until you did 4 sets of at least 2 compound exercises, and then add some isolation movements to a particular muscle group for that given day of the week, whatever you want to focus on. This will create your split. If pushups are your only chest exercise, you should be doing them to failure every time and constantly increase your reps per set, even if you have to collapse in between cranking them out, same for pullups... I was planning on sticking to the same weight each day until it became "easy", and then increasing it and repeating that process. Is this approach somehow flawed? It's not flawed, it's just not that convenient for a progressive system, usually you want to increase the weight or the reps in order to push yourself, sometimes it's easier to do 10 reps of 200lbs oppose to 20 reps of 100lbs. It's also about time under tension which you should google. So if you can't do a bunch of push ups, you can do them slower, creating more resistance. Are there any significant changes I should make to my program? What kind of results should I expect to see? As it stands you are missing a vital part of your strength training, and that's your legs. Working out your legs will boost metabolism and burn more calories at the gym due to the size of the quads and hamstrings, glutes and more importantly the core. I would research a lot about proper form on two main compound lifts, the deadlift, and the squat. Without those, you are just training your upper body, and you would really be cutting yourself short. Also, implement progressive overload system into each routine. You could expect to see fat loss within a week honestly, depending how strict your diet is, and how much you push yourself. Your body fat between 12-16% is probably ideal, so you're going to have to change it up eventually, probably have an active rest day with some HIT. Hope this helps some. 

First master the original bracing sequence and then simplify it. Obviously, simply doing this once will not fix your posture. You must make it a habit. Once you understand proper posture you can work on fixing muscle imbalances. 

sorry this is so brief but i need to workout but dont want anyone to suffer : make sure it is not simply a trigger point essentially a ball on your muscle you can deep massage with a ball check out the trigger point therapy workbook it might be a trigger point on the piriformis in which case dont stretch will edit later if anyone can help please edit for me 

Sure you can, but it's going to take time. One of the major things I've noticed is my dominant arm is stronger than my non-dominant. In this case I happen to be a lefty...sinister, I know... Anyway, what I found worked for me is to start all my single arm movements with my weaker arm, and finish with it. Basically forcing my weaker arm to rep 1-2 more reps than my stronger arm. Keep doing this with all arm-isolated or shoulder-isolated movements. Depending on your frequency, in about a month you should be able to see noticeable improvements in the strength of your weaker muscle area. 

Do not crunch. To crunch or not to crunch is very controversial. One scare tactic is the limited flexion cycles of the spine. You can decide for yourself. $URL$ But to fix your ATP we must focus on exercises that give you a big ROI and the crunch is not one. "If you're in excessive APT, strengthen the hell out of PPT." Once you have correct posture and have fixed your muscle imbalances you can begin to focus on reinforcing proper movment. Alot are described on this article on the second page. $URL$ I personally like the hip trust. 

No it won't cement itself. Mobility is very much a "use it or lose it" addition to your strength arsenal. As you say stretching is temporal. So is mobility. For overhead stuff say you do shoulder dis-locators, for example, then when you're done working out, say 3 days later, you haven't done any more mobility stuff. You will lose that mobility and need to warm up (mobility wise) to get back in the swing of things. Keep at it! However, the motion of the movement would cement itself. It's called muscle memory. This also supports the reasoning behind: When you take a break and get back into the same sport, you will get the strength gains back quicker than if you had never played before. This is because your body remembers the pattern of movements and can therefore apply them quicker. 

Anterior pelvic tilt or ATP "could be due to a number of reasons such as increased erector spinae and hip flexor strength relative to gluteal and abdominal strength." Your main goal based on your question is to fix your excessive anterior pelvic tilt. To accomplish this you must address basic principals in the specified order. 

This article describes a way to have correct posture just using your body: $URL$ It is called the bracing sequence; To simplify the sequence I just think about it this way "the butt sets the posture but you cant walk with your but squeezed" so: 

Well, for example with Olympic lifts, specifically the Overhead Squat, being flexible is going to give you better form, better muscle contraction, better hand-grip positioning, where the bar travels, how far back or forward it goes. Being flexible in the areas of your body that are ball and socket (i.e shoulder, hips) is important in any strength training protocol. Muscle flexibility in chest and shoulders allows for greater range of motion, which correlates to more movement, which means more time under tension, which means more strength, and explosive potential. I'm not a scientist or biologist or physical therapist so I'm unsure of any real science. But this is my not-so-common sense answer. 

So how is it possible that the compound exercise is going to get you bigger arms than the isolation exercise? It wont. As Berin L stated " it's not an either/or proposition". You must use both for bigger arms. Now in terms of time efficiency, compound would win if you used nearly identical stressors. One thing i want to clear up: Compounds will make you bigger simply because the main compounds (squats and deadlifts) work the legs. So the "biggness" will come from the legs. You will weight more because your legs weight more. 

Can someone explain to me cumulative benefits of the following: Friend and I went for a Saturday walk at a park. We each had a kettle bells and they weighed 35lbs and 55lbs respectively. The track was 1 mile. The workout was as follows: Kettle Bell A - 35lb Kettle Bell B - 55lb Each person gets a Kettle Bell. Walking at the same time. We went 

If you run, you will get a stronger forefoot, your hip flexors are called into play much more, your quads and hamstrings both have a very active role, as well as your calve muscles. You must swing your arms and bring your core into the motion. There is a huge emphasis on landing and pushing off, your shoes are important, as well as the gait of your foot, your stance, and whether your an overpronator or underpronator. I would say running is more taxing on your knees and joints. If you want to bike, your bike will be more important than shoes, however shoes will still serve their purpose (try laceless ones if you get serious). Your quads and hammies are both activated, as well as your calves, but not to the extent of that in running. Your core is much less activated, your arms are not activated unless you're turning, even then it's minimal. You get places faster, you can cover much more ground while on a bike. It is less taxing on your knees. More cushioning for your whole body, but I would say in general less of a full body workout than running. I can appreciate your love for the outdoors, and personally I found running kept that love at the forefront of my run, where as when on a bike I am more focused on not running over large objects, dodging children, and when I can I will take a minute to enjoy my surroundings. I am not a scientist, I can't justify my reasoning, I just know what feels right, for me. Best of luck friend. 

what newbie gains are not: when you start working out you have 2 months to workout every day as hard as possible and eat all the food in the world because if you don't you will have wasted an opportunity window. what newbie gains are: you start with a 45 bar squat and add 15 lbs every week and in 12 weeks your are squatting 225 lbs. essentially newbie gains is the term for the fact that new trainees don't and shouldn't use a super complicated Russian program: newbie gains are in part due to quick strenght increse due to practice not muscle as bret contreras put it "In Neuromechanics of Human Movement, Roger Enoka (Enoka, 2008) lists eight potential neurological areas for non-hypertrophy related strength gains: Enhanced output from supraspinal centers as suggested by findings with imagined contractions Reduced coactivation of antagonist muscles Greater activation of agonist and synergist muscles Enhanced coupling of spinal interneurons that produces cross-education Changes in descending drive that reduce the bilateral deficit Shared input to motor neurons that increases motor unit synchronization Greater muscle activation (EMG) Heightened excitability and altered connections into motor neurons" "will I end up sacrificing any gains by doing low weight exercises such as dumbbell dead lifts with only about 12kg weights max on each hand" no. please dont use that as an excuse. just start lifting and try your best to get a bar or gym equipment 

So I was just thinking I got a home gym set up, and I can't really approach the bar under a power-rack as of yet...so I just clean it up over my head. I was interested in doing a back squat. But this got me thinking - I know it's much easier to unrack the bar from a standing position, but would there be any benefit to having your starting position being at the bottom? I think it would help activate your glutes and really force you to use those muscles and really "find" your hole... What do you guys think? Any benefit? Any negatives? Other than the trouble with unracking the weight in a hole? Thanks in advance!