Another option may be to show the comments permanently; but you will have to toggle this for every comment, using the cell's context menu -> . 

You can assign this macro to a keyboard shortcut using -> -> , to SHIFT+CTRL+G, for example. This, way, you don't need to define a rule. 

The only limitation is that you can't set differenct captions for the different Y axis values - in my example, you will have to decide to use either A2:A5 or B7:E7. 

... drag the fields from the "Available Fields" list into Row / Column / Data Fields list as follows: 

You can move entire chapters using the Navigator in LibreOffice. To open the Navigator, hit or use Menu -> . A small window will appear that will let you navigate between chapters, tables and so on: 

You can solve this issue by using different page styles. The only problem is that you'll have to insert a manual page break after the first page. So, you can't let the content flow between the first and second (physical) page. If adding a manual break after the first page is ok, just do the following: 

I'm working with largish PDFs (e.g. 17523x2383 dots @ 72dpi), where i need to zoom out (to see the overall picture and to navigate) and to zoom in (to read labels on the nodes). The PDFs are simple graphs (generated from ) containing mostly text, text-boxes and lines, andthe occasional thumbnail image. The only thing special about them is there size. I don't think, that the graphics are complicated to render, e.g. using the xdot.py program to visualize the graphs (before they are rendered into a PDF) is blindingly fast, so I can scroll and zoom arbitrarily in realtime. Unfortunately, it seems that all all PDF readers (that I have tried) have problems with such formats. Afaict, I require the the following features: - fast renderer (so it can be used interactively) - zoom in to (ideally unlimited) - zoom out to (ideally unlimited) - when zooming, keep focus - minimal dependences (i'm running xfce4; i'd rather not pull in half of kde or gnome just to display a PDF) - free software (FLOSS) These are the readers that i've tried: 

You need to select at least two cells before the functionality will be available. Details depend on your use case: 

I've proposed "" as Text to replace, because if you use simply "google", the replacement will take place a second time when the hyperlink is created, resulting in a link text looking like . EDIT: Here's the source of a simple macro to replace arbitrary selected text by a hyperlink (use with care, it's just a "proof of concept" - for example, it doesn't check if the selected text contains spaces, so the resulting link may point to a invalid url): 

Sorry for not answering the question directly, but IMHO a better approach would be to validate the XLSX files just after generation. There are different offline and online validators available for both OOXML and ODF documents. To single out just two sites: 

Now, just select menu -> -> - this will add some small filter buttons to the header row. For example, the filter button for col C will show the following filter dialog: 

when an email-address is stored in thunderbird's address book, it uses the name stored there to display as the sender in the thread-pane, and ignores any value in the email. e.g. my address book has "John Doe ", which means that all emails with the header "From: Netochka Nezvanova (via J.Doe) " are displayed as being sent from "John Doe". i assume that this is to deface some kind of email forgery (e.g. "Bank of America " will not appear to be an official email), but i fail to see how it should work in practice. what's more, I do want to see the original values in the "From"-field. 

this will assign your machine an IP . obviously you should assign your server a valid IP for your subnet (the given configuration assumes that your DHCP-server gives out IP-addresses in the range). you should also make sure to not use an IP that the DHCP-server might give out. usually you can configure it, to e.g. only hand out IPs in a certain range (e.g. ). mak sure that your static IP is outside this range and does not collide with other devices (namely the router itself - most likely ; and the network&broadcast addresses & ) 

You may have to re-define the heading paragraph styles. Maybe just re-assigning the paragraph styles does the trick; if it doesn't, you will have to remove "direct formatting" first (right-lick on the heading and select the topmost context menu entry). 

In such a case, LO calc is able to determine the structure and to auto-outline the data. In this example, just select A2:E19 and select Menu Data -> Group and Outline -> AutoOutline. Calc will create three groups, just based on the sum function in col E: 

Select as Target; Enter path to document or select the file; Open the targets dialog using the target button: 

Please double-ckeck if you're using the same (current) version of LO - the option may be absent in previous versions (version < 5.x). 

The tells PDFjam to arrange the input PDF pages in three columns and three rows on each output page. The option defines the -as it should - a custom paper size. You may set to false to let PDFjam scale the pages automatically. The PDFjam ReadMe has a nice example for clipping the input pages first, before combining them, so to remove any page margins: 

(which is the MSYS2-equivalent of running ), I get a permission denied (error ). Most likely because I'm not running in "Administrator mode". So one possible solution for my problem was a way to run a command as admin from within MSYS2/bash (without pompting the user for a password or "Are you sure?"-dialog). Other solutions would allow me to trigger a resync "otherwise". Ideas? 

So my question is: is there a free (as in Free/Libre/OpenSource Software) PDF reader (this rules out ) that allows for arbitrary and interactive zoom in/zoom out? 

I'm a happy user of thunderbind and and avid hater of HTML mails. So one of the first things i usually do when setting up a new account, is to switch the default composition method to "plain text". Unfortunately (for me), I also happen to use multiple email accounts and need to do a fair amount of testing (adding even more - albeit temporary - email accounts to my thunderbird). Now what really annoys me, is that i have to turn off HTML composing explicitely for each and every account that i use. What's making things worse, is that not even the account creation wizard allows me to specify my preferred composition method. So here's my questions: 

will return the remaining 4 months after dividing the total sum of months by 12. Of course, you can replace the dates that are included in the formulas above by cell references. assumes that cells A1 and A2 contain dates. 

Take care that if you choose / for comparison (above: red), the comparison is case-insensitive - so LO Calc will apply the formatting for cells holding as well as . If you want to handle both strings differently, you'll need to select / as operator. 

That's it - click OK. This won't change the behaviour of every heading, but just the current heading. 

Insert a header or footer, and put the cursor there; Select Menu "" -> ""; Modify the frame properties: 

Open Menu "" -> ""; In the "" dialogue, click on Button More Options, then click on the Format... button: 

Yes - but the implementation depends on the content of your document. The easiest way to insert a paragraph sign (¶) and a number is using the numbering feature, setting the ¶ as text to put before each number. This works only if your document doesn't contain any other numbering yet. If there's already auto-numbered text, you'll will have to use a table to separate numbering from main text. If you only have plain text in your document without numbering, just edit the "" paragraph style of your document to use numbering (for example numbering style ""), 

EDIT after removing any extranous lines from your sources.list, you should refresh your package cache. 

if aptitude cannot find which has been in ubuntu since hardy (and never changed since then), you probably have broken your file. 

the command has an field, that gives you the time since a given process has been started, in seconds. the following bash script will output the PIDs of processes that have been running for longer than 30 minutes. 

I have a Win10/MSYS2 installation on a VM. The VM is mostly "suspended" (paused via the hypervisor). So when the VM is unpaused it has the wrong time (from before the pause). The idea is to run a script directly after unpause, that syncs the local time to an NTP-server. I need to launch that script via ssh (into a bash-session), and it must run without any interaction. Now when I run 

you don't need to add any repositories to your as already comes with any version of ubuntu since hardy. used to be the old name for the central package, and has been replaced by the package since oneric. finally, usually does a better job when it comes to resolving dependencies, so you might use it instead (and from the cmdline, the syntax is almost identical to that of ) if you don't have installed, do so by running 

I recommend to define different page styles. AFAIK, OOo doesn't know something like "logical page size". So, the best bet is to switch between physical page sizes using page styles. By defining the main matter margins, you can make sure that changing the page size doesn't affect page breaks. Another option may be to manually select the printer media size in the printing dialog. But it depends on the printer driver if this works. Finally, you may overcome OOo's limitations by creating a PDF with a certain size and resize it using PDF tools. 

enter the heading set paragraph style to Heading 1 hit enter to add a new paragraph, and insert the ToC with empty title. 

Enable line numbering for the complete document (Menu "" -> ""; don't forget to enable counting of ""): 

If there are certain, defined margins required, make sure not to choose Dynamic Space / Auto fit height on the Header / Footer tab. So, the "big picture" looks like this (light yellow: main content; blue: header; green: footer):