I'm on RHEL 6 using BASH. I'm trying to sort some lines in a file, by a number that is embedded in a field. The name of the file is word.txt. This is the command I am using: 

I have a PDF file. The pages display vertically, one after another, one at a time. I would like the PDF to display 2 pages at a time, one page next to the other horizontally, like laying out a book flat. Users can do this with a menu option in the PDF reader, but I would like the file to behave like that on its own, without any need for the user to do anything. Is this possible? One wrinkle, I am on Linux (Mint) which Adobe has forsaken. I can only use software available for Linux or a web utility. Thanks either way. 

start gnome-termal with 6 tabs each with its own title start a different command in each tab delay starting server 5 until sever 4 has been running for about 1 minute change the title of the gnome terminal to "My Servers" switch tabs to the Server 4 tab 

I made this script a while ago and I embarrassed to say I don't remember 100% of why I did what I did. I'm not familiar with CSH. Basically, I am wondering what I have to do in the code sample above to convert those BASH commands into CSH commands Thanks for any info 

Our company makes us archive our emails on a network drive. My archive.nsf file (NOT my regular mail.nsf file) has exceeded the quota limit for our network drive. I need to reduce the size of my archive file, but I can't do it ON the network drive because there's no space available to me. I've moved the archive.nsf file to my local PC, where I have space to compact it, but now I get a message that says "cannot locate archive file" whenever I open notes. How can I open this relocated file so I can compact it? 

This turned out to be exactly the right thing to do. Size the text boxes to whatever space you want (in my case, the size of 3x5 index cards) and "link" them using the "Create link" tool (under Drawing Tools/Format). Here's the answer from "bibadia": 

I'm using Intellij IDEA 15, a Java-based IDE. It allows me to click on a link in any open-source Java class in my project and download the source and documentation from the internet. However, this feature is failing right now because we have to go through a proxy server, which does certificate substitution. Although the Windows system I'm on knows about the local certificate, the Java VM I'm using doesn't know about it, so the download process fails with this error: 

From the graphical point of view, the recovery mode does not start graphical driver (named modules in Linux) which is often loaded by the non-started graphical service. Instead, it uses limited generic graphic console features which requires no specific module. Graphical modules are big and complex, and can crash your computer when they misbehave. If you experience issue with them, then you will love recovery mode which will let you fix it using a reliable environment. Recovery mode compares with optional kernel parameter , or whichever is the specific run level you want to join instead of the default one. 

This is not possible. As stated by infixed you can still find you external drive device file using symlinks from or and associated mountpoint from there using if you want (not always installed). 

VLC supports both: general command-line options and per-MRL options. You can find details on VLC Wiki Command-line help: 

Also note that the command you run will search for every files as a first step, and then call only once with all matching names as a second step. Calling with 20 filename arguments is reasonable but 800 file-path argument becomes to be a bit too much. You system has limitations about the length of command-line argument (see ). I would suggest you directly ask to execute your command which will break calls in several sub-sets. Next command will call once per folder containing files, which appears reasonable: 

I'm running KUbuntu 11.10 Linux. I would like to extract a clip from an MP4 file. I tried this command: 

Is there a utility I can use that will count the number of "/" per line, print that number and print the line next to it? I would like output like this: 

I have a BASH script( running on RHEL 6 ) that brings up a GNOME terminal, opens multiple tabs in that terminal, starts a server in each tab, names the tab after that server, and inserts the command into the BASH history. Here is a simplified version of it: 

Obviously, the line with just "12" should be first. The number after "VALUES(" can be of any length How can I tell sort to sort on the number in between "VALUES(" and "," ? I can fall back on a workaround of putting a white space after "VALUES(" in the data, but I would rather not do that unless that is the best option. 

I'm in RHEL 6 with bash as my default shell. I have a script called startServers I made a startServers.desktop file which I put on my desktop so I can have the convenience of clicking on an icon to start the script. It works fine. Some friends want to use my script. They too are on RHEL 6, but their default shell is CSH. When I click on "properties" for startServers.desktop I have a text field called "Commands" that is just /pathtofile/startServers Can I alter that field so that double clicking on the icon sends the command to bash instead of CSH ? Something like bash /pathtofile/startServers ? Thanks 

Yes you can. I finally successfully repaired my Win7 x64 computer few days ago and gave it a try this way: 

In my case I have two results being and and in fact the first is a dependency for the second which is the module to use. Load it this way (with root privileges): 

works on a per-character basis. It counts printable characters of each cells and then pads to align them (see code sources for v2.29). The problem you are facing is that your stream contains non-printable ANSI escape sequence embedding printable characters. then fails to compute the real cell minimal width of those cells and misaligns next cells of the same row. 

And you should be ready to run your virtual machine. Depending on your system (I have no RHEL around), you may need to install a package to get those .ko files. 

Hence every users added to the group can raw read the hard drive which is what you actually need. The group name might vary on your system. Just add yourself to that group, logout/logon for this to take effect and give it another try without root privileges. 

And you can read their time-stamps using a simple command. I think it will show creation time-stamps closed to deletion time. 

And git v1.8.2 fixes that new behavior for command which was still affected. The workarounds I can see of interest are: 

I am programmatically starting several servers in Gnome terminal with each server in its own titled tab: 

Windows 7 Professional Firefox 21.0 Hi, The error console ( Tools > Web Developer > Error Console ) in Firefox is not displaying Javascript error messages under any circumstances. I get these messages in my error console when starting up a fresh session: 

I would also like to make a script to programmatically stop them all. My problem is that the PS names generated are not unique. I will get 3 PS names called "bash" and 3 called "java". I will have other processes, NOT, related to these jobs also called "bash" or "java" that I do NOT want killed. I do not have the option of changing the code or names of these programs. Is there any way around this? Can I change the name of the jobs without changing the programs? Thanks 

I looked in my installation directory. Sure enough, there is no chrome.manifest file at either path. Should I try to get such a file or just do a reinstall with a fresh profile? 

I reset Firefox to factory defaults by going to Help > Trouble Shooting > Reset Firefox That cleared up the problem. I then added preferences back one by one until the Error Console broke again. Choosing "Never Remember History" in Tools > Options > Privacy recreated the problem. 

The daemon can also helps in this situation. It runs in background and learn which programs and libraries are often in use. It then them on next boots for a faster launch. As opposite to those files are not locked in RAM but read once after boot so their RAM space can be reused for something else if required, hence there is no guarantee of a faster launch. 

Note: sleep implementations on Linux usually supports such floating arguments, but if you need a portable solution then you should use an integer argument there which limit the pooling to one second tick, or no sleep at all which will use your cpu a lot. See also man pages of sleep and uniq. 

Since this is Javascript, you can of course create and use private helper functions and variables. Further reading You will find a bunch of documentation over the Internet. Among others: 

Windows file property You can also see this weirdness when you open any file property dialog under Windows. It will show you something like "48 KB (49,152 bytes)". 

The feature accessible from the Network advanced settings of your virtual machine allows you to selectively expose a port of your virtual machine to your host. This way, you can setup virtual machine port 80/tcp (http traffic) to be easily accessible from your localhost port 8080. Below is an exemple for this setting: 

I'm trying to create a document, or template, on MS-Word which will allow me to type content into 3x5 inch spaces on the page, flowing the text between these 3x5 spaces - similar to what Word does with its label creation tool, but without a mail-merge component. In the printing trade this would be called "page imposition" but I found no help for that in MS-Word. I've been completely unable to find any help for this in the help documents or online - Everything seems to point back to "here's how you do a mail merge," which is NOT what I want to do. I just want to create the underlying formatted document, and type in my own text. I was wondering if someone either knew how to do this or could point me to the super-secret help online that can show me the way. 

I have a Windows 7 PC (Home Premium) with a ASUS PCE-N15 11n Wireless LAN PCI-E Card which connects it to a Dlink router. This PC periodically loses wireless connectivity - no internet connectivity, no DNS resolution. It does not lose its IP address (assigned through DHCP). The router remains up - other wireless devices seem to work fine and wired PCs remain connected to the internet. It's just this PC. After a few minutes (2 - 10) the connection resumes as if nothing is wrong. The only unique thing about this PC is that I have OpenVPN installed (version 04/19/2010,9.00.00.7) and connected to a remote location. Anyone seen behavior like this before and how did you fix it? 

Such setup makes it very easy to describe comprehensive routing rules based on the URL you are connecting to, or even base on your computer IP address (home/company network) and the weekday (workdays/weekends). Example file Here is an interesting example for you to see: 

feeds left-hand command with right counterpart. This has a meaning for the command, which prints its when no file name is given as argument. But this has no meaning for which always ignores its and only prints its arguments. 

If you did not write it somewhere then you are unlikely to find it back. One of the very few way to get it is to consult ARP cache of computers connected on the same networks your laptop connected recently, and not restarted meanwhile. You must know that it is very hard to locate a computer given one of its MAC addresses since they are only visible on the same network the computer is currently connected to. You can not use it through the Internet. Another way could be to use online accounts your computer is configured to auto-join and track activity from there (online antivirus account if any, google connection logs if a google account is automatically used, maybe Microsoft Office 365 or Skype account, etc). You will then get public IP addresses the police can work with, or you can give those details to the police for it to ask any activity to the service provider if they don't give those data to end users.