EDIT: Actually, my executable comes from s-nail package. The argument is not supported by GNU mailutils, so my solution doesn't work. You can use heirloom-mailx instead of GNU Mailutils. Install the package and modify the crontab line to: 

Your firewall rules seem correct. However, redirection of packets that enters the AP should be configured in the chain. Rules added into the chain affect locally-generated packets only. So, the following rule should be added: 

You can add a or a restriction at the end of if you intend to receive messages from authenticated users only. However, if you are going to receive messages from domains that you don't own (i.e. a public mail server), you have to follow other alternatives, as an explicit or will reject those messages. Apply the resolution pointed by @Jenny D, that is, either set restriction or configure Sender Policy Framework. Also, you can apply additional anti-spam techniques: 

My users are on 2012 R2 RDS Session Host servers. I've used "Deploy Printers" (from Print Manager) to deploy 4 printers. The last week, I've had a lot of problems where users can't print. If I deleted the printer and added it again, they could print just fine. Now I've removed all printer deploying from GPO - and I have no printers in any login scripts. I did a gpupdate /force, but all the 4 printers are now listed 3 times... 

If I delete the printers and log off and back on, all the printers are popping up again. Sigh! This is driving me nuts. This script doesn't show any of the "SVFREJA" printers... 

I have several users using RDS to my Windows Server 2012 R2. Only one of my users have this problem... He can't click the start button. If he hover the start button, it flickers. Furthermore if he minimize apps, then he can't click them in the taskbar to restore the apps window state. I have many user on the same box, but it is only 1 user having this problem. Any idea how to fix this? 

The method you use for remote script execution generates a conflict between code and data flows. I mean... During the execution of , you allocates the standard input (STDIN) for the code that will execute remotely. But if the executed code needs a data input, it will be fed by the next code line (because the STDIN is transmitting lines of code to the remote process). If you want to use STDIN to supply input data to a script that runs remotely, you may have to use another stream for the code. OpenSSH seems not to have a native file descriptor forwarding feature yet, that is, STDIN (file descriptor number 0) seems to be the only file descriptor which could be used for data forwarding from the local terminal to the remote session. As a workaround, you could copy the script file in advance, for example: 

Why is the BPA saying that Server service isn't running,w hen it's running. Is it a bug in BPA or am I missing something? Thanks 

My RDS clients (Win 8.1) needs to use Web Cam (in Lync) on their Win2012R2 RDS (Session Host). How do I set this up? I've found several of articles online, but they are all for Win2008R2. Is it still by using RemoteFX? Thanks 

Using GPO shared printers or Deploy Printer? Use GPO "User configuration" or "Computer configuration"? Should I remove printers when user logs off - if so how should I do this? 

I deleted my old server with my Exchange server - I did not uninstall Exchange first, so I'm afraid that some stuff still floating around about my old exchange server. We've moved to Exchange Online (Office 365), but when a client of mine tries to set up Outlook, it discovers my old server which doesn't exists anymore. In ADSI I've deleted... 

In [Case1], the socket that connects to the client during the file transfer doesn't belong to the process. Instead, it belongs to a process that is owned by root. So, the rule that sets the mark prevails. 

A Squid server configured as a forward proxy is able to receive plain HTTP requests from clients and forward HTTPS requests to upstream servers transparently. However, an external URL rewrite program is needed. Write the following URL rewriting program into : 

I could not find any documentation that explains the meaning of . I usually define the initial state to and let the election process to choose the master instance. I copied your configuration files to a lab environment and have found that a closing brace for is missing in Server2's keepalived.conf . However, the failover seemed to work well despite that character absence. Please, check using wether unrelated VRRP packets with are present. Or try to change the to another number. As VRRP packets are sent to the multicast address , each virtual IP in a network must use an unique . Also, if you intend to let Server1 take over the virtual IP, I suggest you to set in its . RFC5798 section 6.4.3. Master says that if Server1's IP address is greater than Server2's IP address and both servers have the same priority, Server1 wins the election and gets the virtual IP. However, seems to compare priorities only. 

I have 3 servers with 2012 R2 RDS Session Host, where my users log on. I have 4 printers. What is best practice to deploy these 4 printers to my users?... 

(sry for the big picture) My problem is not with the "redirected" printers, my problem is that I have several printers with the same name (on SVFREJA) and I can't get rid of them. Any idea why I can't get rid of the "ophaned" printers?? 

I've set up a Win2012R2 RDS Session Host farm. Only some users must be allowed to log on outside our network (external) while everybody must be allowed to logon on internal network. How can I do this? 

Problem solved by calling MS. They changed CAP and RAP to default values and lowered the security on collection to low. Furthermore I found out it's only possible to use collection by using webaccess. I thought I could use Remote Desktop App and the broker address as "Computer Address", but that's not possible. 

In my system (Arch Linux), the parameter doesn't seem to change the address. Perhaps the crontab line needs to be changed to this instead: 

According to the tutorials I have read, the Active Directory replication subsystem does not handle synchronization of SYSVOL and NETLOGON folder contents between domain controllers. Instead, it handles topology discovery (KCC, ISTG) and synchronization of changes committed against the LDAP databases. Replication of SYSVOL and NETLOGON shares are handled by either FRS (File Replication Service) or DFS-R (Distributed File System Replication) subsystem. 

RFC5321 status is DRAFT STANDARD. This RFC obsoletes RFC2821 and, in the context of DNS resolution, it basically rewrites the same server lookup procedure and presents a new section that slightly discuss handling of MX records that references IPv6 addresses. 

The custom script may restart the machine via the out-of-band management interface (iDRAC on Dell servers): 

When my users opens RdWeb (eg. from home) and enter their credentials, then they are presented with this dialog... 

I've tried Google it, but has found a solution. I've also deleted all DNS records of the server. Questions: 

How can I delete the Exchange Security Group? How can make sure, my old Exchange server isn't discovered? 

(Link to network diagram: $URL$ I have three RDSH servers - SVRDS1, SVRDS2 and SVRDS3. My Connection Broker is located on a separate box SVPDC1. Problem: If a user is logged into SVRDS2 and this server goes down, then he can't log on (via RdWeb) again before SVRDS2 is online again. I don't get why he's not redirected to SVRDS1 or SVRDS3? Isn't that the brokers job? I see this error on the Broker: