Solution 1 IF it is ok for branch B to loose access to 192.168.5.0/24 temporarily, then on the branch B router's LAN interface configure a secondary ip address 192.168.5.X (this needs to be the gateway configured on the printer!). Then configure a static /32 route for 19.168.5.5 on all hops between you and branch B, pointing to branch B (or have the router at B inject a /32 into your routing protocol. Instead of using a secondary address you could also create a new vlan interface as you said, and put the printer in that vlan, but it cannot be a /30 (unless the printer's gateway happens to be .6 which seems very unlikely) so you probably just want the full /24 and make sure it is not redistributed in your routing protocol, and then inject a /32 again. Solution 2 Use vnc, rdp etc. to remotely control a PC in branch B. Configure a secondary ip address 192.168.5.x on its nic. Then access the printer GUI from there. 

Note that the offered rate is a 30-second average. If your traffic is bursty then you may very well have had a very short burst of over 800000 bps (causing the shaper to kick in) and very little traffic the rest of the 30 seconds. 

Yes this is normal. On a Cisco device, a self-signed certificate is not persistent by default. In other words on every reboot it generates a new keypair and a new certificate. To configure a persistent certificate see Persistent Self-Signed Certificates. 

Configure a route on the ASA (as RonMaupin suggested). However, if the Meraki is on the inside of the ASA then this will require two more things in addition: 

You don't block the icmp unreachables - which are sent by your router - but the inbound packets sent by the traceroute or other tool, that have a TTL (time to live) of 1. See e.g. Cisco Guide to Harden Cisco IOS Devices - look for the section " Filter on TTL Value" edit: corrected url edit: note that in that Cisco document the example filters everything with a TTL < 6. This way you also prevent the next 4 hops in your network to appear in the traceroute without having to add an ACL to those routers as well (assuming all traffic passes through the router you are configuring). Also note that the number 6 is just an arbitrary example, you should use a value based on the diameter of your network (maximum number of hops a packet might traverse within your network). An added benefit of this is that traceroute will still work within your network. edit: Please note that as Brendan notes in the comments, some protocols like BGP, IGMP, ... may require you to make exemptions in the ACL as they use low TTL values. 

You can use source and destination filter in wireshark: ip.src==192.168.0.1 and ip.dst==192.168.0.2 if it's http you can add filter: tcp.port == 80 or tcp.port == 443 for ssl. When you find your stream you can click "Follow TCP Stream". You can compare time of failed download and apply time filter to narrow yours search. Unfortunately there is no way to filter failed download unless you know reason for fail or some additional information. 

EDIT: EIGRP uses multicast hello packets in order to communicate to other EIGRP neighbors. EIGRP generates the not on common subnet error message when it receives an EIGRP hello packet sourced from an IP address on a subnet that is not configured on its receiving interface. These are the general cause for this error message: 

You need tower to increase coverage within area. Antenna located on tall tower would have much better coverage. Each object in line of sight between antenna and client would affect signal in few possible ways, listed below: 

01:30:4d:ff:ff:ff seems to be a broadcast destined for ESI PBX. Routers doesn't forward broadcast packets between diffrent broadcast domains. My guess is that both phone and PBX system needs to be in same broadcast domain. Not sure about pfsense but in cisco world you would setup ip helper address. other option is OVA. 

IMHO I assume that lidgren is working on Layer 7 (application layer). Which would increase CPU overhead and latency. Packets are still handled as normal by lower layers supported by operating system, as Lidgren don't change how UDP is handled by operating system. So to process additional checks on higher layer it would take time and use additional resources. Not really sure but maybe lidgren is adding additional headers in data which are handled by application and to process this you need CPU and is where latency could increase. 

For ping you need to allow ICMP Type: 0, 8 thru ASA Depend of technology used for VPN it could be 500/UDP, 4500/UDP, 5000/UDP, ESP[50], 443/TCP, 1723/GRE[47] If inside host if based on RFC1918 and need to be accesible from internet than you need add NAT statment as well. 

In IP world Explicit Congestion Notification would kick in. All about ECN you can find in RFC3168 or Wikipedia 

Option 2 - convert the config by upgrading You did not specify which PIX model this is, but given that you have 6 ethernet interfaces it must be one of the bigger models (515 or larger). If it has enough memory you can upgrade it to Pix 7.x, which will automatically convert the configuration to version 7 syntax, which is identical to ASA 7 syntax (apart from interface names). Migration from PIX 500 Series Security Appliances to ASA 5500 Series Adaptive Security Appliances describes how to do this. Now, there are still some differences between 7.x syntax to 9.x syntax (mostly the new NAT syntax introduced in 8.3). Typically you would normally upgrade an ASA e.g. from 8.2 to 8.3 and then from 8.3 to 9.0, and each upgrade would automatically make the necessary config changes for you. To be honest I'm not sure if this automatic conversion will also work if you copy/paste a 7.x syntax to a 9.2 system. You can either try to find this in the documentation, or just give it a try and see how far you get (and/or use the document mentioned in option 1 to apply the remaining changes). Some doc pointers: 

Yes, the openflow protocol supports the creation of flows with multiple actions, and each action can be to send a frame/packet out a certain port. However, whether or not your openflow switch supports this is a different matter. E.g. this Cisco doc states that only "output to a single port" is supported by version 1.1.5 of their Openflow agent on Nexus switches. In such a scenario where the switch does not support multiple output ports in a flow, you could define the flow to send the matching frames to the controller, and configure the controller to send multiple packet_out commands to the switch (with the same frame but different output port). Please note that in this case scalability may be a concern, i.e the bandwidth to/from the controller and/or the processing power of the controller may become a bottleneck. 

As the error indicates, link-level flowcontrol (LLFC) is not supported on the Nexus 3000 and 3100 series. It is supported on the Nexus 3500 series and Nexus 9000. As an alternative, you could possibly implement PFC instead, cfr. $URL$ 

No such device exists, as to my knowledge. To be honest auto negotiation should work fine. It was standardised as part of fast Ethernet but is backward compatible with 10base-T. If auto negotiation doesn't work why not setup port where device is plugged to 10Mbps. Otherwise you can use 10/100 switch between both devices. 

protect —The PFC drops packets with unknown source addresses until you remove a sufficient number of secure MAC addresses to drop below the maximum value. so answer is no you don't need shutdown and re-enable port, after 10 minutes mac address will age out from port protected and new mac address will be assigned in case of using sticky. You can add to aging type {absolute | inactivity} For absolute aging, all the secure addresses on this port ago out exactly after the time (minutes) specified and are removed from the secure address list. For inactive aging, the secure addresses on this port ago out only if there is no data traffic from the secure source address for the specified time period. 

You will encounter overruns. Which indicate number of times receiver hardware wasn't able to deliver received data into a hardware buffer. Usually hardware buffer is is shared with other ports for example ports 1-8 share same buffer and ASIC. In some switches models if ASIC buffer is overload than data is queued to general buffer but this is causing what we calling punting and slows down whole switch as packets need to be processed by CPU. packets which would not fit into hardware or general buffer will be dropped. But in your scenario wouldn't really be a issue. Issue is when you have more traffic than backplane could handle. 

The issue is more likely that DNS name is pointing towards external IP address, and NAT is in use. I would suggest to use 

Full process in details is described in RFC 2581 3.2 The fast retransmit enhancement works as follows: if a TCP sender receives a specified number of acknowledgements which is usually set to three duplicate acknowledgements with the same acknowledge number (that is, a total of four acknowledgements with the same acknowledgement number), the sender can be reasonably confident that the segment with the next higher sequence number was dropped, and will not arrive out of order. The sender will then retransmit the packet that was presumed dropped before waiting for its timeout. 

where 192.168.1.66 is the (private) primary ip address of the Juniper and 200.201.202.203 is the (public) secondary ip address. The only other solution I can think of is the most common one, using a dedicated public /30 subnet from which you assign one ip address to the Juniper and one to your router. 

The client just connects to an IP address so the ASA doesn't know which name the client resolved to get that IP address, and hence it cannot do any redirection. The only 2 options I see are: 

PAP sends the password to the RADIUS server (encrypted on the wire by the Radius protocol, but it is still decrypted on the server), MSCHAPv2 does not, it uses a challenge/response mechanism. 

From the Cisco Documentation: Recover and Load an Image for the ASA 5506W-X Wireless Access Point To recover and load a software image onto an ASA 5506W-X using TFTP, perform the following steps. Procedure 

From a quick glance at this data sheet, table 1 seem to indicate that your chassis and SUP support all line cards except the 24Gbps 47xx series. So I may have missed one or two but it seems all these are supported: 

If you only need to get to 192.168.16.0/24 from router A itself then as @Datagram.Network wrote the only route needed is on A, for 192.168.16.0 with B's WAN interface as gateway, so on A (in Cisco router syntax): 

Note that the "1" will cause this rule to be matched before all other NAT. Edit: as discussed in comments/chat, for the Internet access to also work, you need to modify the above 2 rules and replace "any" with "global-inside-network" : 

If the switches are vlan capable, there is one broadcast domain per vlan (if the vlans are trunked between the 2 switches , otherwise one broadcast domain per vlan per switch. If not vlan capable, there is one single broadcast domain. For the collision domain, the topology is very poorly drawn but I assume that each set of 3 computers is connected to a different port of the hub or switch above it. In that case I count 6 collision domains: 

Almost the same as #2 but instead of physically separating them, logically separate them on your existing LAN switch(es), i.e. create a new vlan3 on your LAN switch(es), assign the 5 allowed users' ports to that vlan, configure the link between ASA and switch as trunk (and then same as in #2, configure a vlan3 interface and ACL). Same caveats as in #2. Configure Cut-Through Authentication which requires users to enter a username and password before they can access the Internet, so in your case you would only create accounts for the 5 allowed users. Note that this is now user-based, not PC-based. So allowed users can log in from any PC in the network or connect to any switchport, prohibited users cannot access the internet no matter where they are (as long as the 5 users keep their credentials secret). Configure Identity Firewall which integrates with Active Directory, so users no longer have to authenticate to the firewall explicitly as in #4 but this happens transparently, and you create ACLs based on AD usernames. Configure 802.1x on your LAN switch(es), if they support it, and then you get a whole range of additional options, e.g. you can have the switch dynamically change the vlan on the port the user connects to (and then combine that with #3 above) or dynamically create ACLs on the switch. 

Of course it does, it route packets from A to B. Usually home routers only have a default route, but this doesn't mean that they don't route packets. Their routing table is just smaller with one default route and few directly connected interfaces. 

Switch uses Layer 2 Spanning Tree Protocol to ensures a loop free topology for any bridged Ethernet network. So if yours IOT device will forward bridge protocol data unit (BPDU) accross, switch will maintain loop free topology. BPDU are transsmited accross local network to detect loops in network topologies. If BPDU won't be forwarded you can possibly have a loop. But effect of STP could be something like on this picture. So two IOT boards would be able only to talk with DHCP server thru another IOT board. 

You can achive that by ususing VLAN with VACL or use protected ports (easiest option). Another options is Isolated PVLAN. 

You can configure an interface to convert the dynamic MAC addresses to sticky secure MAC addresses and to add them to the running configuration by enabling sticky learning. To enable sticky learning, enter the switchport port-security mac-address sticky command. When you enter this command, the interface converts all the dynamic secure MAC addresses, including those that were dynamically learned before sticky learning was enabled, to sticky secure MAC addresses. The sticky secure MAC addresses do not automatically become part of the configuration file, which is the startup configuration used each time the switch restarts. If you save the sticky secure MAC addresses in the configuration file, when the switch restarts, the interface does not need to relearn these addresses. If you do not save the configuration, they are lost. So they wont be ageing from port security, mac address only ageing from CAM and ARP. Port security and ARP table are two different concepts. 

Ideally you want to setup directory like Radius to authenticate against. Please see guide hope that help: guide Although you can have a local users as per this guide: guide 

If NAT-T is enabled and client is behind NAT, then NAT-T is used no NAT exists, then Native IPsec (ESP) is used So not gonna affect your current tunnels. 

That's correct you need to have support of dot1q on Dlink to be able implement router on stick. Ideal solution would be intervlan routing on switch but yours 2950 is layer 2 device, router on the stick isn't preffered solution.