Is this on Windows 7 or Server 2008 (or newer)? If so, then this article will answer your question. In short: 

Windows 2012R2 will only allow you to upgrade in the same language as the installation you're upgrading from. For whatever reason, this is by design. (I got this from the MS Exam Ref 70-410, page 12). The only way you're going to get an in-place upgrade to work is with a German version of the OS. For further consideration, in case it assists anyone else: The only possible upgrade path to Windows Server 2012 R2 is if the previous OS is the same base language, same platform (x86 or x64), not Itanium, and not a Pre-RTM edition of 2012. Also you can't upgrade from any workstation OS. In Windows Server 2012 R2 Inside Out, the author strongly recommends migrating to a clean installation rather than upgrading in most cases, since in particular not all roles and features can be upgraded. 

Summary: I want to be able to monitor the computers on my network, but don't need it to be automated. We're too small to purchase anything like MOM, but too big to do anything manually (~100 machines in two locations). I just keep running into issues, and was wondering if there's a master list of Group Policy settings I can distribute to my environment to get Remote Powershell working. Environment: Our AD network is pretty mixed. The end users have XP SP3, Win 7, and Win 7 x64. The servers include Win2k3 SP2, Win2k8, Win2k8 x64, Win2k8 R2, and Win2k8 R2 x64. Details: I'm trying to get it to work with Remote Powershell, but I run into errors like the following: 

The most important difference I can see between the two services is that App-V enables you to virtualize almost any application in-house and deliver it to your users, whereas Jump Box is a collection of 50 pre-chosen applications you can use in your environment. These applications are varied and when I flipped through I saw PostgreSQL, some blogging platforms, and a few other things. So, really what matters is if the prepackaged applications Jump box covers the needs of your users. If you need to applications not offered by Jump Box, then it's not your tool. 

Are you looking at this link? Based on my read, that's so you can buy a canned mongoDB-on-a-server with pre-configured storage and other things. If you just want to install MongoDB on a box, make sure the ec2 instance you want to run meets the MongoDB requirements and go from there. t2 Micro servers are (in my experience) pretty OK if you're not looking for high performance. 

Then I go to the computer (Win2k3 SP2 server) and run winrm quickconfig per the recommendations via google, and it says: 

I click OK, then Next, it reports success, and I assume I'm done. But then when I go right back to where I was, I see that "Use protocol defaults" is still checked. Anyone have a clue why this would be? Some other details: I'm logged in as Administrator when I do this. I can't change this setting for the entire IMAP virtual server because some regular users use it. I only have one IP address to play with, which means I can't create another IMAP virtual server. Any suggestions or ideas are greatly appreciated! EDIT: this question was resolved by joeqwerty in the comments. If possible, I'd like the mods to mark this question as answered. 

Following that is a list of the options available. There's other information in the RFC advising that some options aren't supported by older standards, etc. 

Is this an x64 Server? If so, it's possible this blogpost explains your issue. Apparently it has to do with the way the get-process reads x64 systems memory: 

The way I'm reading your question, it sounds like you're just using GPP to to turn on the ID & Print requirement for secure print. Have you tried setting up ID & Print on the device itself? According to the manual I found you can turn it on with the device by accessing the "User Authentication /Account Track" screen, then "User Authentication Settings" then "Administrative Setting" then "ID & Print Settings". Page 13.4.8-13.4.9 (239-240/311) of the manual I linked to walks you through the various specific settings you can choose from in order to appropriately configure it for your users. 

That's right. It tells me to remedy my winrm quickconfig failure by running winrm quickconfig. I don't want to band-aid this project one google search at a time. I'm sure there is a step-by-step tutorial out there on how to set up a network for powershell remote administration. Does anyone know of one? Books are acceptable. Thanks in advance! I didn't think my question would get this long. EDIT: So far, this is the best one, but it's not comprehensive: $URL$ 

None of them show "server.myinternaldomain.com" anywhere. For the record, the mail server is called smtp.mydomain.com externally and exch.myinternaldomain.com internally. Is there a way to change this value in the autodiscover.xml result? I've rebuilt the Autodiscover virtual directory to no avail. Update: Well, I figured it out. A certificate was installed using Symantec SSL Assistant Plus. The problem was it wasn't the right certificate for the Exchange server, because it wasn't a SAN certificate. Also there already is a SAN cert installed, so a mistake all around. Compounding the issue, that utility offers to change your registry settings to harden it. Well, one of those changes broke all kinds of functionality apparently. Fortunately, the utility makes a registry backup so you can restore. After that, all was well. 

According to this article "This can occur if Windows Management Framework (WMF) 3.0 is installed on Hyper-V host without also applying update 2781512." The Microsoft article goes on to advise installing hotfix 2781512. 

I can't answer exactly how this works, but I played around a little and discovered that if I opened a shared drive in windows explorer and did a search in the folder (as with the screenshot you reference) explorer.exe on the local machine becomes active and stays active for the duration of the search, but there is no corresponding activity on the remote machine which I was monitoring in an RDP session. So it seems like the processing is done locally. 

The title says most of it. I have a Spiceworks mailbox that connects to our Exchange Server 2003 box via IMAP for receiving help desk issues. But for complicated reasons, I want it to receive those emails in text-only format. So, I discovered that you can just go to: 

so I have Exchange 2010 and I'm having issues with Outlook Anywhere, and when I run testconnectivity.microsoft.com, it returns: 

So I think the problem is that my Autodiscover is faulty. This is supported by scrolling up in the results and seeing that the xml response returns an IMAP server and an SMTP server that don't exist, both called "server.myinternaldomain.com.". It literally starts with "server". Obviously, I've never called a server "server" before so I have no idea where it would get that from. It's also nowhere in my public or private DNS settings, or in any of my Exchange settings as far as I can tell. I've looked in the following places: 

So, here's the thing. If you're planning to change the file system anyway, you're going to have to backup your data at some point in this process regardless of whether your external drive is accessible after you disconnect it and delete the Storage Space. So, I think the smartest route is probably to back up your files, make the necessary configuration changes you need to make, then restore your files from your backup location. But to answer your specific question, I think it's probable that the files themselves will be OK on the drive, and the PC will probably treat it as an external disk and mount it like any other. They'll just still be in ReFS. But again, I'd back up to a different device before doing anything. Why risk your data?