When taking notes with a stylus on a capacitive touch device like the ipad or android tablets how do you prevent your hand from causing multi-touch problems? When you write, both the stylus and your hand are touching the screen. Does the presence of your hand screw up your touch entry just as accidentally placing a second finger on the screen at the wrong time would? 

I'd like to make a rule such that if an email is moved or copied into Folder1 (where Folder1 is not the Inbox) the action is triggered. For example, if I move an email into Folder1 I might want it to be copied to Folder2. 

I'm creating port forwarding rules on my DD-WRT router (shown below) and want to allow all (any) source networks access. My thought was to specify 0.0.0.0/32 but that is not working. How do I specify this? 

I want an Autohotkey script which launches a new instance of Chrome and brings that new window to the forefront (active window). My script is: 

This might work as-is with no firewall changes (except perhaps permitting http and https Internet access for the static IP addresses of the machines running LogMeIn). Firewalls that are configured securely do not permit inbound connections that originate from outside the firewall. The way LogMeIn works is that the LogMeIn client that's installed on the internal PCs initate an outbound connection to the LogMeIn servers (the broker) over https. Given that it's https (or http) this traffic is indistinguishable from normal web browsing. When the external user goes to the LogMeIn web site to connect to an internal PC, the external user rides the https connection that was initiated by the inside client. Since the inside client initiated the connection, all is good. Like I said above, you may need to have your firewall person add the addresses of the inside PCs to the firewall, but again it's all over https and looks like web traffic. Prior to any changes I'd test from a PC that already has Internet access and see what you get. Update: This support article on the LogMeIn web site seems to confirm the above. $URL$ It does make a good point that if there's a firewall (Windows firewall or other) on the internal PCs you may need to grant access to the LogMeIn executables, however this is unrelated to the network firewall piece. Hope this helps. 

So far though I'm unable to find a spider that can handle #1 and #2. * The site is a bill payment service and it has my bill history. I'm looking to stop using the service but I want to keep the history. 

I'd like to display an RSS feed (updating dynamically of course) on my Windows 7 desktop. The posts I've read about Windows 7 RSS backgrounds are all about displaying various background images delivered via RSS. What I'm looking for would be similar to the Windows XP/95 Active Desktop feature which allowed for web pages to be presented on the desktop background. 

I re-listened to the video at $URL$ and realized that the Google Apps Outlook Sync tool isn't meant for this. I wanted to keep working against Exchange and simply have my emails be synced to my google apps account. What the tool is doing is creating a new Outlook profile which points to your google apps account, then imports your emails et al from your original Exchange profile into this new profile, ie your data is now sitting in Google Apps. Once the import is done your content is re-downloaded from google apps back to your outlook client in the new profile. The video goes on to say that you can turn off Exchange and keep working with outlook against google apps. So Exchange is out of the picture. 

I want to create new Chrome windows (no tabs) from outside of Chrome, e.g. by running Chrome.exe multiple times. How can I do this so as to get a single Chrome window? The default result is to create new tabs in the existing window which requires me to drag and drop the tag to create a new window. 

Is there a way to prime Outlook's local address cache with names/email addresses from the local address book? It's a real hassle when, for example, you move a user from another email client to Outlook and they have to either type in or look up the recipient's name the first time they email that person. It's so time consuming. Update: Is the process different for Exchange mailboxes vs. IMAP? 

Can Outlook 2007/2010 be configured to not warn me if the subject is blank? I want to disable the prompt. 

I'm running Outlook 2010 in Cached Exchange mode against an Exchange 2007 server. Outlook's status bar shows "updating cached messages (2/1950)" and the number never increments. What does "updating cached messages" mean? Information is sparse. Intuitively it seems like some kind of indexing process on the emails cached in the local .OST file. 

I'm looking for a program to spider a web site* and download the content to disk. I've got the following requirements though which appear to trip up the programs I've tried: 

By default, Outlook 2010 creates an "RSS Feeds" folder which cannot be deleted in the usual way you would delete a folder. 

Looking at Amazon reviews for OCZ Agility and Vertex SSD drives, I often see an equal number of great reviews and lousy reviews. People either seem to love them and have no issues or have tons of problems. Reviews for Corsair and Sandisk drives generally seem good to great. What's the story with OCZ? 

The site's logon process is distributed between multiple pages so I need to be able to start the session manually with my web browser, authenticate, then launch the spider and give it access to the cookies. Many of the links execute Javascript and then return content. Many of the links return PDF documents (some spiders do support this). 

I want to remove the folder, so I read How to Remove RSS Support from Outlook and discovered the MFCMapi gem of a utility. I followed the instructions in the section "Delete the RSS folder using MFCMAPI" section, and was able to remove the folder from Outlook. However, the "RSS Feeds" folder now shows in the "Deleted Items" folder in Outlook Web Access (OWA) and also on my mobile devices, but not in Outlook. In OWA I attempted a right-click and delete, but I am told that folder cannot be deleted. I poked around my OST file (I am running in cached exchange mode) using again using MFCMapi to see if I could find the folder but I do not see it. Finally I created a new Outlook profile in which I do not cache messages, so I could get a "live" look at the server and attempt to see the folder and delete it that way, but it still did not show. Any ideas? 

I think you want keyconfig. There appears to be a version available for FF5: $URL$ More info here: $URL$ XPI here: $URL$ Fair warning, I haven't tried to get keyconfig working in FF5. But I have used a version of keyconfig with older versions of FF as well as with Thunderbird and it does what you want: lets you remap key configurations to suit your preferences. 

It's not a F/OSS solution, but this software does exactly what you want, and has lots of configuration options to support most situations: $URL$ The basic concept is that you install Gsync on your client computer where you run Outlook. You configure it with your Gmail login and it will create a two way sync between Outlook and Gmail. Then Gmail will be effective hub between your phone and your desktop. 

My thinkpad t410s has a feature that I can set the min charge level before recharging. I've got it set at 90%, so the battery has to drain down to at least 90% before it will recharge. My old T43 would charge whenever the battery level dropped to 99% and this has made the battery basically useless at this point (30% it's original charge capability). Most battery manufacturers (li-on) also recommend that you discharge the battery fully about once a month, if you use it every day. This will help (I'm not sure why) to maintain a healthy battery. NiCad bats required this treatment more regularly, but Li-On bats also need it sometimes, apparently. 

Check out Greasemonkey - it can almost certainly handle your task, but you'll have to write some javascript to accomplish it: $URL$ This script looks like it's close to what you want: $URL$ And here's a discussion about how to detect text within a span in html, which would get you the other half of your functionality: $URL$ So you'd want to use the text detection code in 2940 with the auto-reload of 34287. 

The best tool I'm aware of for analyzing and fixing low level problems in the dos/windows formats & environments is: $URL$ If it doesn't resolve the issue you probably have a hardware failure on your hands. I'd highly, highly recommend backing up anything/everything you can before you run any analysis/recovery software. In my experience with hardware failures they get worse and worse the more the disk runs, so you have a limited amount of time that the drive is on to get stuff off.. DO NOT write anything to the disk - read/backup stuff off it only. Then try spinrite to see if you can fix things that way. Sometimes it's just a bad sector that crops up and that doesn't compromise the whole disk.. 

Thanks indeed to Microsoft for eliminating "Restore Previous Versions". However, if you have system protection enabled on your system drive (usually C:) you can STILL get to the old versions back. Just because they took away the UI doesn't mean they took away the underlying backups. First off, download Shadow Explorer. Then bow at their feet for writing it. $URL$ After installing it, you can navigate to the files referenced in the accepted answer by Mark Sowul. Note that you select the date/version you want to browser with the pulldown in shadow explorer: 

On my current Windows 7 install (relatively stock from Lenovo) I cannot click-and-drag on a maximized window and drag it onto my second monitor. On my older computer (another Lenovo laptop w/Win7 -in the same laptop family) I could do this. I'm sure there's some Windows config/registry setting that enables "detaching and dragging" of maximized windows when click/dragging on the title bar of a window, but I can't find it on Google or here. Thanks for any info or ideas! 

Check out github too - you can import a project from SVN using github and do it online on their servers (as long as it's a public project it's free). This isn't mirroring and you have to use git not SVN but maybe worth checking out.. 

Are you sure that your IP stack has the hosts file enabled? I recall that by policy it could be disabled, which is a security feature. Scratch installs of Win7 have it enabled, I believe, but it's possible if you're using a corporate machine that it's been disabled and you'll need to re-enable it - I think this is done through the Network control panel as an admin. You sound like you're very computer literate, so don't take offense, but here is another common error: 

My computer is periodically bogged down by disk activity that I've tracked down to files of an usual type. The symptom is that my computer UI bogs down (mouse stutters, UI buttons lag, etc). While this is going on, in the Resource Monitor I can see high disk activity (the heavy disk use seems to be the source of the slow OS/UI). This whole situation happens only every once in a while. The files that Resource Mon lists as associated with the high level of disk activity are randomly named but always in the form "[letters/numbers].exe.part" and are located in my temp folder. One that I noticed today is 2FQgISac.exe.part. There seems to be only one of these files active at a time. At first I thought it was a virus or something but I right clicked on the file in explorer and examined its properties -- it is a digitally signed file from Microsoft! So that rules out most of kind of viruses? Obviously I've googled for this but I can't find anything relevant. Does anyone know what this is, whether there's a way to get it to stop bogging my user interface and/or any other thoughts or suggestions on how to get my computer back to normal? It seems like this issue has cropped up in the last 30 days for me and I've uninstalled any software I've put on the computer in that time but that hasn't helped.. Thanks for any assistance! 

I have a single Windows 10 machine. It is not connected to a domain. Pretty stock. Daylight savings time changed this weekend, and my computer is not showing the correct time. I've rebooted it with no change in the issue. If I set "Adjust for daylight savings time automatically" then the time is wrong. If I turn this feature off, then the time is right. It seems like the opposite should be true. Can someone help me to get my OS to report the correct time throughout the year? Screenshots to demo the problem to follow.. Time is wrong when "Adjust automatically" is set: