I am trying to RADIUS authenticate on my HP ProCurve 2910al W14.38 with both console and SSH. My shows the following: 

Upon doing some research it states that my Terminal Services have been out of licensing for 120 days. This is where I get confused. NEVER have I had a licensing server running on any of my machines. All the RDC connections to work stations and Domain Controllers work without a problem; it seems to be just these 2 servers. It was working earlier this week and this just randomly started happening. Servers are running Windows Server 2008 R2 and is just for databases etc. Is there a way to get my RDC back without installing a Licensing Server since I didn't have one before and things were working or doing the Registry Stop gap of resetting the 120 days? Thanks. 

EDIT: Now the server is not checking in with the WSUS server. I removed it from the list of computers and waiting for it to check back in and report. It will not report. I am not running a proxy sever and port 8530 is allowed through the firewall. What could be causing this? EDIT: This error seems to come up every time it checks for updates in the log . I also see one saying Still can't find a cause yet. EDIT: Was able to run the Powershell script to install the WSUS feature. Clean removed WSUS, WID, IIS and cleaned registry and files and restarted before running the powershell command. Now I am getting an issue where I can't get WSUS postinstall to complete. It gets to the following and then says failed to complete. 

Here's the scenario: (2) Windows servers in an office Server 1. Application Server Server 2. Backup Server, PDC, DNS (5) Laptops that backup to the backup server The Backup server has Symantec Backup Exec installed and backs up the other server, than throws the backups that it does for itself and the other server into a second partition. Also, all of the laptops are configured to backup to the same partition underneath a labeled folder. The Goal: I want to have an rsync script backup everything on this second partition on the Windows server to another -- remote -- NAS device running Linux. Does anyone know this can be accomplished from a Windows to Linux platform, or anything similiar to what I want to do? I enjoy rsync and it's awesomeness, but if there is another, easier, solution out there, that'll do as well. Also, I know that Windows doesn't use Rsync. Just the method that i'm trying to use. 

Here's the setup: I have a MySQL DB cluster in Rackspace that I'm already using for replication to multple slaves in multiple datacenters. I am trying to use AWS' Aurora with a MySQL front-end, which I've had working before, but now replication is breaking. This is the error that i'm seeing Last_Errno: 1146 Last_Error: Error 'Table 'SOME_DB_NAME2.segment' doesn't exist' on query. Default database: 'SOME_DB_NAME2'. Query: 'DELETE FROM WHERE 1' The problem is, is that I have only imported one database called SOME_DB_NAME1, NOT SOME_DB_NAME2. So the error that i'm getting for a table that doesn't exist in my database at all is really strange. I exported 1 database from my Rackspace DB cluster to setup replication, and when I import that 1 database into Aurora and kick off replication, it almost immediately failes and gives me the Errno: 1146 for a table that doesn't even exist in the 1 database that I brought over. I've done a SHOW TABLES; using the 1 database that I brought over, and i've confirmed that the problematic table doesn't even exist. I don't know if maybe I have to grab ALL databases from Rackspace and bring them over to initiate replication, even though I just wanted 1 of the databases... 

I have googled this error and I have found little information or none at all for this error. I have tried all of the suggestions I could find but nothing has resolved this issue. What I can make out of the last .ELT file when I open it with word is: 

Found the answer to this question when looking for the answer to another question. Please see THIS question for the fix to this issue. 

I found the issue was that .NET Framework 4.6 was installed. After uninstalling it and running the installer again all was installed fine without a problem. Reinstalled .NET 4.6 to run my other software after the installation was complete. There was some information I stumbled upon that .NET 4.6 and up can cause a problem with the installation of this software. Unisntall the .NET 4.6 or up and run the WSUS 3.0 SP2 installer again and then reinstall .NET 4.6. The WSUS installer will use the older .NET 2.0 framework to complete the installation successfully. 

Is there anything else I can do? WinRM should be working. This is a production server and is configured to run MULTIPLE things. I cannot rebuild it. UPDATE: I found a firewall rule called "HTTP Through TLS/SSL" set to "public" instead of Private/Domain. I changed that. SERVER2 can not WinRM to SERVER1 but using the Server Manager I get this error: 

On my security GPO I have the Startup set to and the Service action set to . This will make sure that if that if the service is running outside of patching times it will stop the service and disable it. On my update GPO I have the Startup set to and the Service action set to . I have then placed my Patching GPO in a higher hierarchy in the Group Policy. When the Update GPO policy is enabled this GPO overwrites the policies applied in the security GPO. If you set it in this way you can do a simple gpupdate /force on any machine and it will alter the control of the service depending on if the GPO is enable and which is higher in the hierarchy. This was exactly what I was looking for. This article was greatly helpful and I hope can help others: How To Use Group Policy To Control Services by Alan Burchill 

I would restart the vcenter services on your Windows box now that the DC is back up and running before going any further. 

How are you assigning a public IP to the server? Do you have 2 NIC's on the server? Is it a physical/virtual machine? I need more information to determine what might be happening. It could be possible that there's another machine on your network with the same static private IP address that's causing a conflict. You can ask someone in the NOC or network department to do an arp lookup on the mac address for your server to see what IP it's grabbing, and then lookup that same IP address to make sure no one else is using the same IP by mistake. 

I have several production MySQL databases running on an RHCS cluster. I want to setup replication of one specific database, with only specific tables from that database, to another brand new mysql database server. Can this be done, if so, how? 

Either you delete the backup files or have the system do it. Depending on the destination for the storage, make sure you have read/write/modify privileges so that you can access the directory to remove the files. If you're not going to use the backup files, than it really doesn't matter who deletes them to reclaim that space so that you can clear up room for your preferred backup solution. 

I have MySQL servers A, B, C, and D. Server A is the MySQL master who receives the write traffic, and my applications look at B + C for reads (current slaves). I have replication forwarding ALL database events from A --> B and then from B ---> C. Server B is a slave to A, but a "master" to C. There are about 14 databases being tracked in the bin-logs. So, I would like to setup replication to AWS Aurora (the future D server), but I only want to replicate ONE database to it, from server C. So my setup would ideally look like this: A ----> B ----> C ----> D (aws aurora w/ 1 database) How do I tell server C to become a replication master and only replicate ONE database to server D (aws aurora)? I hope this makes sense.