Their mentioning of "OTG" only means that the flash drive has its Type-C plug configured as "USB device", by having 5.1k resistor pull-down on CC line. This is the standard Type-C convention, per Type-C specifications. This CC configuration (5.1k to ground) signals to a more sophisticated dual-role Type-C device/phone that the phone must assume the host role if the Kingston flash is plugged in with Type-C end. This all has nothing to do with flash-drive being as host device, it is never a host, and the CC-pin never changes. So the original premise of this question is wrong, there is no such thing as USB flash storage with OTG function. 

As you say, your "board" has USB 3.0 micro-B connector. Therefore the board is not an officially recognized "OTG" (aka "Dual-Data-Role" port) device, because for OTG case the board connector must be of micro-A/B type. Therefore the use of your "board" as USB host is outside the user-intended use. There could be at least three reasons why your Sandisk flash does not connect at USB 3.0 SuperSpeed rate: 

I'm not sure I've entirely understood the question, mainly use Scribus 1.3.3 but occasionally 1.3.5, both on Ubuntu, so the differences in version and platform may outweigh any similarities but, FWIW, ... After creating the table it needs to be ungrouped. Text can then be added to individual cells by selecting the cell (e.g. click on the cell). Individual cells can also be resized by selecting the cell and using the frame handles as usual. A sequence of cells can be selected (select and shift-select each of the cells) and then manipulated together. This can, for example, resize or reposition a whole row or column. Similarly, a column or row of cells, after they are all selected, can be copied and pasted. The new column can have all its cells selected and then slid into position. Spanning can be achieved manually by deleting a cell then expanding a neighbour. However, this sounds just like what you don't want - a bunch of grouped text areas. Anything more complex I import a table constructed elsewhere, not least as I'm no expert in Scribus. 

In some Chrome instances, several extensions (apps?) called Google Docs, Google Sheets, etc. are installed (I've seen various subsets of these across different Chrome instances). What are these for / what do they do / why do they exist? I verified that I can go offline and use Drive, Docs, Sheets, etc. just fine with these extensions disabled. 

Yesterday I installed doctormo's PPA package of the Wacom drivers to get a new Wacom Bamboo Pen & Touch working on my Ubuntu 10.04 LTS laptop, as instructed here and dozens of other web pages. Things were working fine, but today things broke. Some symptoms: 

I've read several of the other questions here and other pages on the web, but so far nothing I've tried has worked. The video I'm trying to cache for offline viewing is this lecture: $URL$ I've tried: 

I'm trying to get a taste for what the best options are (or what the trade-offs are) if I want to encrypt at least /var, /home, /tmp, /etc, and swap (think that pretty much covers most sensitive data, assuming I'm not installing secret applications into /usr or anything). Some guiding questions: 

This behaviour is seen when the first gateway (in this case the wireless network side of the router is set to not issue/retransmit/forward ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED messages. ( depends on these for the increasing IP protocol time to live (TTL) fields set in its outgoing requests to know the IP address and round-trip-time for each gateway on the path to the host). This is done for a mix of performance and security reasons. It may be possible to adjust the handling of these (and other) ICMP packets in the router set-up. The times and IP addresses for the first and last entries are known from the IP address of the host and the IP address of the furst gateway. 

Unless the sending mail-server (e.g. the one operated by an ISP or webmail service) checks it then an email can be sent with the address set to any valid address. A recipient has to check the routing () information in the email header to see whether this source is likely. Some emails also have and entries that may add to or detract from the credibility of the claimed origin. 

I have a machine (hostname ) with two wired network interfaces, eth0 and eth1. When I connect another host to one of them (eth0), I can see in either one's NetworkManager that it's using "Link-Local Only" mode: 

This works great—I can instantly communicate between the two hosts just with or . However, as soon as I plug in a second host onto eth1, and become unreachable to each other, due to now having multiple overlapping 169.254.0.0/16 routes. How do I fix this permanently, such that I don't need to repeat some incantations on each host every time I connect a host, and also minimize the amount of static IP configuration I have to do (I'd like to solve this in the most ZeroConfNetworking-ish way possible)? FWIW all machines are running Ubuntu 12.04. 

I'm looking for a way to do this from the command line. Totem has no problem just playing the stream, so I assume a way to dump the stream to a file is not out of reach, but I can't figure it out. Anybody else able to record this? Thanks in advance. Update: I was wrong on one data point - if I enable transcoding in VLC, the resulting file is playable (just have to wait for the whole thing to complete - it was the partial recording that was not playable). However, I'm still interested in a command-line approach to this problem, so that I can batch up many lectures. 

If the ISP provides day-by-day or hour-by-hour usage information perhaps you could try a period of time with no machines running and then several periods with one machine only but doing the normal work for that machine to see if you can identify whether the increase is on one of the machines rather than other(s). 

This has the disadvantage of having to prepare a separate file but it makes replication and documentation of tests easier. 

I've not tried it but there is a batch method using OpenOffice.org that you could test. Instructions on doing this on GNU/Linux and Windows platforms described at $URL$ (and also at $URL$ and, at $URL$ The principle of using OpenOffice.org to read in the .doc file and then export it as a PDF seems sound if you find OpenOffice.org makes areasonable job of opening the .doc files you have. 

for all the letters a-z and A-Z (@), digits 0 to 9 (ASCII 48-57), underscore and international letters (ASCII 192-255) 

It is very likely that your laptop has only ONE USB host controller. The aggregate bandwidth is determined by controller architecture. So, one controller - 40MBps. To accommodate 4 USB 2.0 HS cameras, you would need FOUR controllers in your system. If it is a less-modern laptop (that has one separate EHCI and one xHCI USB 3.0), then connecting one camera to USB 3.0 port, and another to a USB 2.0 will give you the bandwidth for two cameras, but you need to check how your exposed ports are routed, to which controller. If there is only one xHCI, then no luck. And I doubt that your laptop has more than one M.2 slot with direct PCIe. 

There is a known issue of interference between RF 2400 MHz receivers and USB 3.0 signals. However, I believe the USB 3.0 ports must have some functional device to cause the interference, but who knows. Try to separate the RF dongle from PC body by using a USB cable extender (I can't believe myself advocating an illegal USB interconnect!). As I recall, many Logitech RF devices come with this kind of extender, with a funny receptacle shape. I this does not help, try to get a USB2 hub, even the cheapest one will do the job (if it works at all with your PC). 

I realize there are previous discussions on disk encryption in Linux but they tend to only cover subsets of the above options and questions. Thanks for any guidance. 

Turned out that it was due to a missing /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-wacom.conf, which was removed in a packaging screw-up in an update from just a few days ago. After adding in the one from $URL$ everything worked again. Thanks go to Favux. 

In an ssh session, one can start tunneling with the keystrokes and entering (e.g.) . However, is there any way to stop tunneling on that port (short of killing the process)? 

I currently share my screen for presentations using VNC, since it's easy to share with anyone who has little more than a web browser with noVNC. Is there a similar viewer (HTML5, Flash, or - as a last resort - Java) that uses the faster NX protocol? The only NX clients I can find today are "full" clients, which require a download/install and have no view-only mode. 

You did solve the first part of problem, by compensating the design deficiency of your "device" USB port, by providing external power (VBUS) to the link. This is a fairly legitimate solution. The second part (charging while connecting as USB device) is more challenging. The solution will depend on what kind of port charging signature does your PHONE understand while maintaining data link protocol. Does it ever charge when plugged into any normal USB port of a PC, or working hub? If it fails to charge from a normal data port (taking 500mA and charging, but maybe slowly), then you need to try a "Battery Charging" (BC1.2) port, if you can find one. If your phone does support/recognize BC1.2 charging signature, you will need to make your own device, a BC1.2 add-on emulator between your phone and your special "device". 

For most PCs the USB VBUS power on ROOT ports does not have any high-side hardware switches to control VBUS, thus there is no means to turn the VBUS on/off by software. The VBUS is connected nearly directly to system's PS, to +5VSB (standby) rail, so even if the PC is turned off, VBUS stays. This is done this way so a keyboard or mouse can wake the PC up. (Laptops are somewhat different, it depends). Therefore, you have three options: (1) Use a good (certified and expensive) hub with ports that have high-side switches to connect to your COM devices. When PC reboots, new enumeration cycle for USB hub will have USB_RESET state, and high-side switches will turn off and then on. It might be not easy to find this kind of hub, since manufacturers usually have stuffing options on their PCBs either to use high-side switches (adding cost), or bypass them with resettable polyfuse (cheap) at assembly point. (2) Use a separate controlled power source like this SPDT USB-controlled switch between USB port and your equipment. (3) Fix your COM-port equipment and/or host driver to implement "reset/initialize" protocol. 

Check that you have the latest BIOS for the laptop, this is an area where manufacturers make improvements over time as there is more user experience with the machine. Worth checking anyway for any other improvements that you might benefit from. Doesn't this machine have a 'whisper mode' when the fan switches to a low speed and the processor runs slower to reduce heat build up? If this profile suits the laptop and your requirements it may provide some mitigation if the problem is just that the replacement fan is a bit noisier than the original (fans the same size can have quite different performance characteristics in throughput, noise and speed as well as different construction and bearings so a like-for-like replacement is quite difficult, leaving aside that even two fans of the same model from the same maker may not behave in just the same way). 

If you have not already looked at Thesycon's DPC Latency Checker Tool and your project is on one of its supported platforms and is non-commercial then you consider using it for free to confirm your conclusions. Details of the tool and next steps are in the page hyperlinked above. One final, obvious, suggestion is to relieve the PC of other work by not running unnecessary processes and ensuring sufficient free RAM may help.