The MTU is dictated by the link. For example, ethernet has an MTU of 1500, while frame relay on a serial interface has a much larger MTU. Other factors can reduce the MTU. For example, a tunnel will encapsulate your packets inside other packets, so the tunnel MTU will be reduced by the size of the encapsulating protocol header. The tunnel is a virtual link, so the MTU is still dictated by the link MTU. The MTU is only the maximum packet size, and not every packet will be that size. For example, VoIP will use a lot of very small packets, regardless of the MTU. Cisco has documents that explain the PPS for the different routers with different options and licenses. I don't believe there is a single document that gives this for you. 

If you are assigned a network, let's pick a valid network (not an invalid network, like you have in your question), you can subnet that network into two networks: and . You then assign those two networks, but you do not assign any other networks from your assigned block anywhere else. You cannot assign overlapping networks without a hassle (VRFs, NAT, etc.), and you really need to know what you are doing and have a good reason for doing it. See the answer to this question for how to do this. 

Many sites, including your friend's router, drop ICMP as a security feature. Pinging an entire domain such as won't work unless there is a host responding on behalf of the domain. You can try to ping one of Google's DNS servers (e.g. 8.8.8.8). If that doesn't work, it may be that your router is blocking ICMP echo replies. Traceroute can be a very different story. Some versions of traceroute use ICMP, but, originally, it was thought that a host should not respond to ICMP messages with an ICMP error message. The result is that many vendors implemented traceroute using UDP instead of ICMP. This can cause sites which block unsolicited UDP traffic to not respond to any version of traceroute using UDP. There can be other problems, too. Any of the devices (routers, firewall, etc.) in the path from the source to the target may block your attempts. Some ISPs are implementing Carrier-Grade NAT (due to the IPv4 shortage), and the way some of them implement it seems to interfere with these tools. 

On a Cisco IOS DHCP server, it is pretty simple. In the DHCP pool configuration, use the command to assign an IP address to a MAC address: 

By the way, switches don't use ARP, which is a layer-3 to layer-2 resolution protocol. Layer-2 switches don't know anything about layer-3. Layer-2 switches do maintain MAC address tables to resolve layer-2 addresses to switch interfaces, but not to layer-3 addresses. 

You are free to use those within you own company if you NAT the addresses when using the public Internet. To do business on the public Internet, you need to be assigned your own unique public address(es). 

A VLAN is a broadcast domain. Broadcasts and unknown unicasts are flooded to every port in a broadcast domain. Broadcasts received by a host interrupt the host and must be processed, even if the receiving host has no interest in the content of the broadcast, it must still process it to determine that. VLANs can be used to reduce the size of the broadcast domain. By using two VLANs (20 and 30), you can restrict the broadcasts in one VLAN from being sent to hosts in the other VLAN. If the second switch has no ports in VLAN 20, why would you even want to send broadcasts and unknown unicasts for VLAN 20 to that switch? You can restrict what goes across the trunk to only VLAN 30 traffic, thereby reducing the traffic on the trunk. A MAC address is only relevant within the VLAN where the host with that MAC address is a member. The frames traveling on the trunks are tagged (or not tagged for a native VLAN) with the VLAN tag, and those frames will only be sent across a trunk which allows the VLAN in the tag. Frames are only delivered to the interface where the MAC address is connected, unless the switch doesn't know that and delivers it to all the interfaces in the VLAN, and a trunk interface will be one of those if the trunk allows that VLAN. A switch will learn which interface a particular MAC address is, over time, and will only send frames with a destination MAC address to that interface. The switch MAC address table eventually times out a MAC address when it isn't used for a while. If the switch doesn't have a destination MAC address in its table, it will flood the frame to every interface in that VLAN. 

I'm not sure where you get that idea. From the perspective of layer-2 (what the WAP works with), you don't have many options for prioritizing traffic. The WAP, like a switch, does not look at the packets, only the frames. It doesn't matter what marking you have on the packets if the devices doesn't look at the packets in order to treat the packets differently. Many people try to set up something like you describe, but it almost always ends in disappointment. What seems to look good on paper, and would work well on a wired network, will simply not work as envisioned on Wi-Fi. 

Also, you are not running OSPF on P1. P1 will never learn routes advertised by PE1 unless you statically define them on P1, or you run a common routing protocol between P1 and PE1. To answer your second question, the routing table is show the directly connected networks: and . Routing tables show the networks. What you have configured on your interfaces are specific addresses within those networks. 

Broadcasting is a term that is used on a broadcast domain, which is bounded by layer-3 (routers). Broadcasts are sent to a special broadcast address, both for layer-2 and layer-3. A broadcast cannot cross a layer-3 device, and every host in a broadcast domain must be interrupted and inspect a broadcast. Flooding is used by a switch at layer-2 to send unknown unicast frames to all other interfaces. If a frame is not destined for a host which receives it, the host will ignore it and not be interrupted. This, too, is limited to a broadcast domain. Flooding in OSPF (layer-3) means that the routes get delivered to every OSPF router in an area. It really has nothing to do with a broadcast. OSPF doesn't use broadcasts to send routes, it uses unicast or multicast to connect with its neighbors. Each OSPF router needs to have a full understanding of all the routers and routes in its area, and it tells all its neighbors about all its local routes, and any routes it hears about from other neighbors. (OSPF routers are unrepentant gossips.) 

The IANA recommendation is to assign everyone a /48 (65,536 networks of 18 quintiliion addresses in each /64 subnet) network. Most ISPs are only assigning /56 networks (256 /64 subnets). You can always get a free tunnel (/64 or /48) to the IPv6 Internet from a company like Hurricane Electric. You would be surprised, but all the big ISPs are already assigning IPv6 to most of their customers (most customers don't have IPv6-capable routers, or they don't realize it). Google receives a large amount of consumer IPv6 traffic. As of right now, ARIN only has 92 /24 (none larger) IPv4 blocks left to assign to ISPs. 

You can buy a wireless tester or get some software for your computer(s) or smartphone to check for signal strength, interference, dead spots etc. LAN throughput can be checked from PC to PC with the proper software. Product recommendations are specifically off-topic for this forum. See the help site. 

You forget that routers can have virtual interfaces. For example, you can create . You can have many, many different VLANs, each with its own network, on virtual interfaces of a single physical interface. Routers only need to terminate the layer-2 LANs. It is the LANs that really need a lot of interfaces, so you use switches for the LAN interfaces, and the switch connects to the router (with a trunk if you have more than one VLAN). 

Routing convergence means that all the routers have received all routing updates and have updated their routing tables to reflect the changes. Different routing protocols propagate routing changes in different ways, with different timing. For example, some routing protocols send all the routes to neighbors periodically, so changes can take a long time to get to every router. On the other hand, some routing protocols immediately send any changes to neighbors as soon as the router knows about the changes, so the updates get to all routers quickly. As soon as all the routers in the AS have the updates, then the routing protocol has converged. Before all the routers know about the updates, packets can be lost, so time to convergence is important. 

A router (layer-3 switch, included) doesn't route from one network to the same network. If you had two different networks, one on each side, of the first switch, the layer-3 switch could route from one network to the other, and the ping should succeed. 

First, uses ICMP, not UDP, and you specify the packet size when you run the command, or the OS may have a fixed packet size. It probably defaults to 64 bytes. Which OS you are using dictates which type of you use (e.g. ICMP, UDP, TCP), and whether or not it uses options, all of which affects the size of the packets. The router queuing and processing time will vary, based on the router model, how it is configured, and how busy the router link is, which may vary by day of the week, time of day, etc. For instance, a shared medium, like a cable modem, may get very busy in the evening when people come home, while a business ISP router is probably busiest during working hours. I assume you mean bandwidth, rather than the transmission rate (which is well known for electrons traveling through copper wire, or light through fiber). The serialization rate (bandwidth) will vary by hop, and it is more important than the actual transmission speed. Also, the layer-2 protocol on each link has an affect. You will have headers for the layer-2 frames, and the size of those vary by the layer-2 protocol used on a link. For instance, ethernet will add 26 to 30 octets for the frame, and it has a 12-octet gap between frames. If a link has a half-duplex medium, you can be delayed because the medium is in use by other hosts. ICMP is usually low priority traffic which is queued or dropped in favor of "real" traffic. The performance of ICMP really doesn't reflect how real traffic performs, and many ISPs will redirect ICMP traffic in order to disguise their internal networks. The path traceroute takes may not reflect anything like the path your other traffic takes. It can even be directed to secondary transit links which your other traffic only takes in the event of a failure. The time it takes a packet to reach the other end can be different than the time the return packet takes to reach you, and the time it takes to process the packet at the far end and generate a return packet can vary. For instance, gives your a round-trip time which is cumulative of the time the packets takes each way and the processing time. All in all, using and for measurements is crude, fraught with problems, and may not reflect how your other traffic performs. It's even possible that the delay for these in your own network (short physical distance) is greater than the delay from your network perimeter to the ISP perimeter (longer distance). 

You can use aggregate routes, and announce only those, or you can announce the aggregate and individual routes. As long a one of the individual routes in an aggregate are in your routing table, the aggregate route will be announced. Creating an aggregate route will also create a route to , so that any traffic coming in for that aggregate which doesn't match any of the individual routes, will be dropped. Simply announcing a less specific route, rather than using an aggregate will not work, unless you have the aggregate route in your routing table, since BGP only announces routes to which it has a path. 

You only do this if the SonicWALL is the DNS server, and, from everything I can find, the SonicWALL will not act as a DNS server. 

You can configure two VLANs, and place an ACL on the router to prevent traffic between the separate VLANs. You didn't give us the switch and router models, so we can't give you specifics, but you will need to configure the link between the switch and router as a trunk, and you will need to create virtual/subinterfaces for each VLAN. Each VLAN will have a different network, so you will need to configure NAT for each network to the Internet. You will also create an ACL for each VLAN that denies traffic to the other network. 

Also, when mixing Category-5E and Category-6 in a cable plant, the cable plant can only be rated as Category-5E since the cable plant is rated as the lowest category of any part it contains. The Category-6 cabling ends up as expensive Category-5E cabling, even if it can pass the Category-6 test suite. 

The proper way is to use a syslog server and an application to parse the resulting data. Message 106100 is an information level message, and you can change it to error level, but it will not change for any existing ACE, and all errors will end up in the log, not just the matches. 

According to the data sheet for the DS-CDM 760, the data rate tops out at 314 Mbps. The ethernet ports on it support 1000 Mbps. To use the full capacity of the device, you need 1 Gbps in the network path (switch, server, etc.). I don't see a problem, but I don't have all the information since I have no details on your network to which you wish to connect this. If the device is going to give you a new network, you will need to route between this new network and your existing network. Depending on how your network is laid out, you may be able to connect it directly to your router, or you could connect it to a layer-2 switch VLAN which runs to your router, or you could use a layer-3 switch to route it. This is really all we can give you without more detail, and designing your network is not really what we do here. 

When a host wants to send something to a host in a different LAN, the sending host can tell it is sending to a different LAN because its own network and mask are configured in it. Based on that knowledge, it knows it needs to send the traffic to its configured gateway (router). It may have the MAC address of the gateway in its ARP cache, or it may not. If it doesn't, it needs to use ARP to resolve the gateway's IP address to its MAC address. Once it has the gateway's MAC address, it can encapsulate the IP packet in the ethernet frame, and send the frame to the gateway. The router will get the frame and strip the frame off the packet. It will inspect the packet and look to see if it has a route to the destination IP address in its routing table. The routing table could be populated in multiple ways, including routing protocols like OSPF. If the router cannot find a route to the destination, it drops the packet. If it does find a route, it will switch the packet to the outbound interface where it will apply a new layer-2 frame for the outbound interface. This may involve ARP, again. When the second router gets the frame from the first router, it will repeat the process that the first router did. It will send the frame it created out the LAN interface toward the receiving host. Switches will learn the MAC address of devices connected to the switch ports as those devices send traffic through the port. The switch updates its MAC address table. Switches don't have forwarding tables the way routers do, but they will send a frame to a port where the destination MAC address is known, and they will flood frames with unknown destination MAC addresses to all ports. Routers get route information to populate their forwarding tables from multiple sources. The most common source is from the directly connected networks. Routes can be statically configured, or they can be learned via a routing protocol (RIP, OSPF, IS-IS, BGP, etc.). Traffic without a route in the forwarding table will be dropped. If your router already knows the route to the destination (directly connected, statically configured, or dynamically learned from a routing protocol) it will forward it out the proper interface toward the destination. If it has not already learned the route to the destination, the traffic will be dropped. If you have new questions beyond clarification, you need to ask a new question, but this question is really too broad to get into more detail than what I have outlined above.