You could look for a .pac file in Internet Explorer's cache. The .pac file can hold rules the browser to use to decide which proxy to use. You could attempt to use those proxies directly, or if they require authentication you could try formatting the proxy setting with your credentials similar to this . That said, corporations can detect and block Skype traffic with packet inspection, and I've heard of many corporations dismissing people violating the corporate policies. Just had the throw that in there. I hope this helps. 

It sounds like the hard drive thinks two sectors are marginal but your reallocated sector count is zero so it looks like the two make get reallocated. I like how wikipedia explains the two SMART parameters. Also, keep in mind all drives will fail, so only backup the data you want to keep. 

Dupemerge is a command line program what will dedupe directories using hard links. This program will look at a directory or directories you point it to and if there are duplicate files, it will hard link them. If you backup on a regular basis, you can schedule this to run after the backup and free up the space. CloneSpy is a GUI program that will display lists of duplicate files. You can manually dedupe some files or have it automatically dudupe the files for you. Hard linking needs to be turned on in the options, this program started out as a program to remove duplicate files and they have since added the hard link capability. Si if you want the file hard linked, you must turn that on. I don’t know CloneSpy knows the NTFS hard link limitations, but Dupemerge does. There are some Windows Explorer extensions to also create hard links and to visually see which files are hard linked from within Windows Explorer, Hard Link Shell Extension will put a red “shortcut” arrow overlay over the files that have been hard linked. Also, on local drives in the file properties it will display which files are hard linked together. It is nice to see which files are duplicates and which are unique. Also if there is a chance of editing the files, this will act as a warning to remind you that if you edit a file with a red arrow that you are actually editing all the hard linked files at the same time. The website $URL$ has a ton of information about Hard Links, Junctions, Symbolic Links. Using hard links like this is nice because each backup folder looks like a complete full backup, but common files within the backup and across backups are only using space up once, usually. Usually because NTFS has a limitation of 1023 hard links to one file, and dupemerge will only hard link 1022 files to one file, so if you have more than 1022 copies, a second copy of the data will have to be stored for another 1022 hard links to link to. There are some programs intended for space efficient backups, duplicati (a Windows port of the Linux duplicity backup program). This GUI program, from what I understand, will dedupe because it hashes the data. It reminds me of using rsync for backup. The current version of duplicati are much improved, and I would recommend it. It can manage your backups by setting how many backups to keep, how much space to use, max age of backups and so on. I use this program for long term backups. Hardlink Backup (formerly RsyncBackup) (a GUI program) dedupes by hard links. (I hadn't used this program since it was rebranded.) Because I was going to use my program in a commercial environment I didn't test the program out much more. However it did appear to work well. Rdiff-Backup (a command line program) also dedupes by hard links. The thing I didn't care for was it put a directory with all the revision history in the backup directory. If that was necessary I wish they would have hidden it and made it a dot directory. This program is similar to an rsync backup program. Just to warn you, with Windows it isn't always clear how much space hard linked files are using. I believe the overall drive statistics are correct and show actual space used. However, if you did a properties over the backup directories it would look like no space was saved by hard linking. Eventually, you should be able to store what looks to be over 100% of the capacity of the drive. This is because Explorer counts the space each file entry takes up, but doesn't check to see if two files entries are pointing to the same piece of data on the disk. --Added-- If you only want to keep files not in the original backup regardless of their location. (e.g. has in , and in is in . Because was not changed, but relocated you want a program to remove .) Then the program I would suggest is CloneSpy. This was what the program was originally designed for. CloneSpy has many options. I've used it for a similar task when I would compare to , & . Then compare & to & . Lastly compare , & to . That way among all the folders only unique files exist. --Added 2-- Actually a simpler way to do the above is to have all the directories in one group and tell it to delete newer files. That would leave the oldest copy of the dupe set. This way you can tell when a version of the file was first created. This would also dedupe files within the directories as well as across the directories, resulting in only one copy of a unique file. 

You probably know this already, but I've had this problem. When troubleshooting, ensure all the firewall software is disabled. I've had some software lock down the connections to the point Windows couldn't use DHCP. Good luck. 

Assuming that the external drive letter is E. The switch means to mirror. The switch means to transfer in restartable mode (so if you want to transfer a 1GB file and stop part of the way through, it will resume where it left off when you rerun the command). The switch is how many retries before the file is skipped. The switch is how long it should wait before retrying. If the and switches are omitted the defaults are very large, 1 million retries & 30 seconds per wait. The will show the usage. 

I would suggest LoJack for Laptops, but I'm not sure if are fully protected on a computer that didn't come with that option. LoJack for Laptops has software that works at the BIOS level, so if the hard drive is replaced, this software will install into the new operating system. Laptops that didn't come with this feature I don't know if this will work. Their website says it would. 

Website for criteria examples: $URL$ Video Series (on Google Video): $URL$ When you say last Friday, I take that the previous Friday (not the last Friday of the month or something). Here is a query that will return the results for the previous Friday, and if executed on a Friday will still return the results of the previous Friday and not the current Friday. 

To be in spec, a CAT 5 UTP cable should not exceed 100 meters. Cable can be connected with repeaters and you can get another 100 meters and so on. However, if you network is too large, then the TCP/IP packet will take so long to go from end to end computers will reach the timeout before they get a reply back. At that point other devices will have to be used to retransmit the packets, like switches/routers... I'm not sure about that distance/time before packets are considered lost. 

I don't know about the print drivers or PDF part, but I would save the PDF as a graphic and use an editor (like gimp or something) to select all of a color (black) and change it to blue. 

I don't know of any OGG validators, but you may want to try an audio conversion program. Convert the OGG to MP3 (or anything else). You should be able to queue up the files and if an OGG file is invalid hopefully conversion program may choke on it and alert you. If you know someone else with the program you could use a program like hashdeep to generate the hashes for the OGG files (of the whole game) and use hashdeep in audit mode to check the known good hashes to your files. (A torrent file could do the same, if who created it didn't ZIP/RAR the files. If they didn't, you may be able to use the torrent file to validate your files.) I assume this is necessary because you don't have the CD (like the game is a downloaded game, as I'm not familiar with your game.) If you did have the CD, then there are many program to compare files on a bit-by-bit level (I like TreeComp.) Hope this helps. 

You may be able to use The Microsoft Keyboard Layout Creator to remap those keys to nothing. Other than that, maybe Superglue and/or butter knife. Good luck 

If your torrent client doesn't speak UPnP or you don't want to open your router up with UPnP, you could use Port Triggering to have the router direct traffic to the IP that opened the port. I like this more than UPnP because you are in control of the ports being opened. $URL$ 

If the DATE_ADMITTED field is a real date/time field, then you can set the criteria of the DATE_ADMITTED field to: 

If @minopret's answer to have to laptop charge the device when in a low power state doesn't work, then I would suggest leaving the computer at the BIOS screen. The USB ports are probably powered so keyboards would work in BIOS mode, and the hard drive will probably spin down because it is idle. I assume everything else would be minimally powered. Some laptops can heat up because the temporary sensors don't ramp up the fans when in BIOS, but if your laptop doesn't have that problem, then the BIOS screen may be the minimal power needed to power the USB ports with the computer on. 

fileTweak is a program that adds a tab in Explorer properties. It is mainly used to change the date/time, but it will display seconds. Unfortunately it isn't free. That said, I thought there was a free add-in that basically did the same thing. 

Maybe, I had a USB cable for a camera that when I plugged it into a newer computer it said there was a problem with the USB device not getting enough power. I tried plugging the cable and camera into an older computer and I heard a pop and a puff of smoke. After examining the cable I saw one pin was shorted to the USB casing of the plug. Liquids would induce similar shorts. So, one computer was able to protect itself from the short, the other not. 

My favorite utility is robocopy (part of Windows Server 2003 Resource Kit Tools). You can put the robocopy.exe on the hard drive and make two batch files, one for each machine. The first script will copy from the computer to the hard drive. The second will copy from the hard drive to the computer. sample robocopy command 

I'm still relatively new to Linux, but I thought when you when to install the system there was a way to turn on whole-disk encryption. Also, TrueCrypt has a .deb package. I hadn't used disk encryption on Linux yet, so perhaps these options have problems like you describe above. As far as the multiuser logon, perhaps TrueCrypt can be setup to use a key file on a USB drive. That way all you need is the laptop and the USB drive to access the files on the laptop. I'm still learning Linux myself, so I hope this helps. 

Depending on how you connect to the remote hard drive, the answer is different. If you can connect to it via a UNC (like you have a VPN between you and the remote machine), I would use Robocopy with the /mir switch. (Plus it is built in to Vista) If you don't have a direct connect, I would look at some third party app like dropbox or live sync, Pogoplug and have it sync. I also like the all the already mentioned software, and the comment a sync isn't a backup (unless you are syncing the backup). There are many correct answers, hard to say which is the best. 

This isn't free ($19), but Womble MPEG-VCR has frame accurate times with frame by frame stepping. If you do a search use the key words "frame accurate", I'm sure there must be something freeware, especially for Linux. Hope this helps. 

To change this to use another unzipping program just replace with whatever command you would execute on each file. Use as a place holder for the name of the file you want to unzip. I tried looking for a polished app, free or otherwise and didn't really find one. Hopefully this will give you a good start and WinZip or something similar can take care of the overwrite problem. Good luck. 

To answer your last question first, Libraries could be an answer. The gotcha is using software that doesn't understand libraries. That software could default to the My Documents folder if they didn't write their code as Microsoft recommends. You could redirect folders to another location. For example the Documents folder if you right click over it, there will be a Location tab, there you will have the option to move the documents to another drive. However, you also want to redirect your Favorites, pictures, music and other folders. In Windows 2000 I know there were some group policies to redirect everything, I would imagine Windows 7 has similar policies. Even since Windows 2000 SP 4 I hadn't used redirection or even saved my data on another partition. One thing I have learn relatively recently is to have a good backup strategy, both for my data and OS. One thing I still have to work on is testing the restore. If you don't test your restore and know it works, you shouldn't count on it.