Your emails are going to get marked as spam regardless of how you send them, if the recipients mark them as spam: GMail, &c, will learn from this, and mark other emails from you as spam. Make sure that people want to receive the emails you send. What perfomance you need will depend pretty heavily on what the social networking software will need, as well as on the number of users and what they do. As a rule, say, PHP sites are less resource intensive than Ruby sites. 

If you're familiar adminning desktop systems with the same OS as your VPS, then you'll be spared the biggest shock that comes with VPS. VPS is to shared hosting what (remote) adminning a system is to having a user account on that system. Things you have to worry about with VPS that you didn't have to with shared hosting: 

If you do want a host physically resident in the EU, use a European VPS. Go for something based in Amsterdam: that's where the AMS-IX International Peer Connection point, which means it is pretty central for most of the European internet, has as good connectivity to the US as you'll get, and has a huge number of VPS providers. Cf. The ICANN IP hubs map. 

If you know the sub domains, then I'd have a different site (call it site 2) pointing to app1, put the certain domains as host-headers with the same ip address as the other unknown on a separate site that has ip address bindings (call it site 1). When you want to update code for site 2, update the folder location to app2 on site2 with the host-headers. If you have multiple servers, I would take one out of load, update to your needs, put in load and continue with other boxes. Hope that helps. 

logparser has the ability to insert into syslog type logparser -h -o:syslog Wrap into a batch file or powershell script. That is one option. Examples: Send error entries in the IIS log to a SYSLOG server: 

Are these local accounts or domain accounts? If these are local accounts, they can't be moved. Are these IIS or windows users? You can review the applicationHost.config (make a backup copy first) and see what configuration is stored in there. I asked a question about moving IIS manager users to another machine, a MS team member mentioned this. We need a bit more information. As far as moving the configuration over. You could try copying the sites configuration specific to the FTP site by copying and pasting the particular configuration. This involves the XML so it's not very straight forward, but is an option. $URL$ 

DNS: you probably have to set up and maintain a nameserver; Mail: likewise a mailserver; Securing ports and syslogging: clients on shared host systems have to worry about only a small fraction of these issues. Ssh daemon and user authentication. 

If you approve all messages that appear on your website, then don't use a captcha. There are comment filtering services out there that can analyse comments in a manner similar to mail spam filters (all links to the client API page, organised from simplest API to most complex): 

I agree with Tom that this is only an attempt to subvert your comment system. I get hundreds of these, and similar, each day, and I don't bother trying to filter them on the server, because: 

Machine: Xen-3.0 image running stable Debian Linux 2.6.18, pretty vanilla. My VPS provider asks me to deal with some trouble my image is causing, namely handling IP addresses it is not supposed to: 

Use rsync if you can. Rsync allows you to generate diff files that show what has changed, what exists on the target but not in the source, etc. It will make this kind of task much easier. There are several repackagings of rsync for Windows. 

Can you look in the iis logs and see what the sub-status code is on the 401. Here is a list of codes posted by MS $URL$ The HTTP status code in IIS 7.0, IIS 7.5, and IIS 8.0 $URL$ you could also use failed request tracing to see what is happening. $URL$ 

by default in IIS 7.5, the applicationpoolidentity (aka i_AppPoolName) is used. I would NOT grant write perms and only grant on the folder(s) needed to support your app. Network service was the default account in IIS 6 and wasn't the best account. MS made a change in 7.x. 'note the default app pool name should be changed to whatever you have. ICACLS C:\inetpub\wwwroot /grant "IIS AppPool\DefaultAppPool":(M) You can do this from the GUI in r2/iis 7.5 The other option is to grant the IIS_IUSRS group modify, the app pool command line above is the most secure. I just wouldn't grant modify on all folders. Personally, I use the IIS_IUSRS perms architecture as my servers are not shared hosting servers. 

SMTP. No, seriously: I had a situation ages ago on a badly adminned Sun-centric network where this was the only port that didn't hangup when it received more than 50K or so. So I wrote a script that telnet 25'd tarballs around. It was silly, but it worked. "Maliciously incompetent" was the term my officemate used about the admin. 

The good news is that running a web server shouldn't look much different, in my experience, after the move, except that you can change some things faster because you don't have to ask anyone. If you enjoy looking after boxes, you will find a VPS much more fun than a shared host. Try running an experimental VPS for a few weeks before you commit anything to it. 

Does anyone maintain lists of the most frequently guessed account names that are used by attackers brute-forcing ssh? For your amusement, from my main server's logs over the last month (43 313 failed ssh attempts), with not getting as far as : 

Setup another site that is pointed to the same content directory. Enable a couple things 1) only allow connections from 127.0.0.1 2) Use a location tag in the applicationHost.config enabling anonymous. If you don't have any of the security providers config'd in the web.config, that'd be the best, then you can control the authentication providers within applicationhost.config 3) use a local hosts file with a dummy name in the bindings or update the bindings ip address to be 127.0.0.1 or pick something like 127.0.0.10 

Good question :) You'd need a decent box to handle 10k requests per sec, in the IIS architecture to handle this type of load, you'd want a web-farm of boxes. http.sys > Process Activation Service > w3wp is the path a request takes. Each app pool has queues to process requests at a time. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ IIS 8 has NUMA support, this helps with scaling. $URL$ There are other factors, which type of content and application. :) 

Might seem like a basic question, but is ASP.NET installed? Do basic ASP.NET pages work, what you are describing doesn't seem like an IIS issue as much as configuration. 

Not explicitly, as far as I can tell! At least, nothing under /etc or /var/tmp mentions these IP addresses. But says something I can't make sense of: 

The only thing that happens to them is that they are emailed to me; the server does nothing else with them. I can approve comments offline, using Steve Kemp's chronicle. I prefer to have a lean set of filters on my server, to deal only with things that are dangerous. Nearly all are trivial to spot using mail filtering software, and that seems the right place to deal with comment spam. I prefer reviewing spam using mail rather than server logs. 

You can tell iptables to only allow each IP address to connect once to port 110. There are a couple of disadvantages to that: 

We see that there is one interaction scree process, 2298, which has /dev/ttyp3 open. Process 2299 also has this tty open, but process 1979 does not access any tty. So you can infer from this output which child processes are talking to which interaction processes. 

The IUSR account is a new account with w2k8. By default that is the user account for anonymous. I recommend setting the anonymous to inherit from application pool identity. Then you can grant permissions on the ApplicationPoolIdentity I_AppPoolName account $URL$ Either way is fine depending on your needs. 

ARR is your answer here. Look for articles by Scott Forsyth on handling ARR. He has a IT pro series with some covering ARR. $URL$ 

first enable sql remote connections $URL$ second open windows fw if you are using it on port 1433 (or whatever port you configured) for sql. 1433 is the default. 

I would consult the vendors website for this type of question. It appears to have an active and well documented @ $URL$ Redmine 2.1.2. 

The only other options I can think of 1) create a local user with the same user name and password on each machine 2) Grant permissions on the folder (first try granting the user, if that doesn't work, try users or authenticated users). The right way is to have a trust like it's mentioned although is more involved. 

seems like a common place to put clojure's binaries and libraries — why I don't know, it seems a natural for — so creating a subdirectory under this for these bash scripts seems fine. The general point is that it makes more sense to organise scripts by function, not have all bash scripts in the same place. 

Steve Kemp (again) has an xml-rpc-based comment filter: it's how Debian filters comments, and the code is free software, meaning you can run your own comment filtering server if you like; There's Akismet, which is from the WordPress universe; There's Mollom, which has an impressive list of users. It's closed source; it might say "not sure" about comments, intended to suggest offering a captcha to check the user. 

If you're worried about lots of idle pop3-login processes cluttering up your process space, I recommend having cron periodically issue a HUP to the master dovecot process. It doesn't sound like the right thing, but it's clean enough. 

My own experience is that very little comment spam is intelligent, in the sense of getting around filters, in the way that email spam is. 

Try a hosts file entry remotely on a client and see if you things work. Once that is all set, you'll just need the dns A record as mentioned in the previous post. This is something I do all the time to make sure the setup is working both locally as well as remotely. 

Sounds like webgardens (one app pool spawning additional processes). I'd suggest trying to not use web gardens if they are being used. Additionally, if you use SCOM 2012 sp1, I'd suggest deploying APM (application performance monitor) and push a management pack to monitor what's going on. APM doesn't require any code changes and can get down to the function level. The only other option is to use IIS Debug Diag to $URL$ 

The permissions are based on the IUSR (anonymous by default) or the application pool identity. The best tool to help determine if there are permission issues is using process monitor by sysinternals. Auditing will tell you right away if there are denies. If so, adjust folder security to meet your requirements. $URL$ 

When I started learning how to configure email, SPF existed but there were doubts about whether it was a good thing, and the value of offering SPF records in DNS. Now it seems that it is widely accepted that some form of well-known sender validation is good practice. Is this really true? Am I being a bad postmaster by not supporting SPF/DKIM/whatever? 

If you're using linux, 'iptables' allows you great freedom in choosing a policy for throttling new connections from IP addresses or IP address ranges. Try: 

I've used PointHQ: they don't really support being a secondary in their free version. Namecheap I didn't manage to use. ClouDNS don't let you set SOA records in their free version. So for this task I recommend Xname, which is painless if you are happy with BIND configuration. 

The trouble was, as I didn't find out for myself, the ethernet interface was bound to the forbidden IP addresses, although only the gateway address was shown using //. would have listed the missing addresses; using on the two misconfigured ip addresses fixed the problem. I should really learn more about Linux networking — this seems like it should have been obvious to me to check. I found Daniel Weiss' Proxy ARP with Linux useful.