When the active cell is within a pivot table, you will have the Refresh option available under PivotTable Tools | Options on the Ribbon bar. 

A pivot table will let you organise amounts summed by the reference number. Then you can apply a value filter to only show the totals above 2000. 

Done. The image should now look like the original image and you can save it in a more popular file format if you wish. If the chunky borders of 'pure' color are a problem for you, you can improve them by selecting the layer mask and applying a threshold adjustment (threshold = 2 or 1 if you prefer). After this, flatten the image and then repeat steps 5, 6 and 7. And if someone could show me how to do this all within Photoshop I'd be very glad to find out how. 

It will depend on the particular application you use but Adobe PhotoShop and Adobe Illustrator (and presumably Gimp) let you define your screen resolution (in pixels/inch or similar) and have an "Actual size" magnify mode. If you mainly want to see the relative differences and don't need perfectly accurate scale, just plot the various lengths in a spreadsheet as a bar or column chart and resize the chart to approximate the real dimensions. 

Try casting your date to datetime. SQL Server's date is internally represented as a 3 byte integer whereas datetime is 8 bytes and presumably floating point. Excel uses a double to represent dates/times so SQL Server's datetime format might map across better than date. 

To address your second question: How to detect conversion from a lossy format like JPEG to TIFF or PNG A visual way to tell if an image has been previously JPEG compressed is to zoom in on the image and look for signs of discontinuities between 8x8 pixel blocks. These are particularly obvious if the JPEG compression was high (low quality). 

Apart from the first summation, the formula is consistent so you can fill/repeat it for any size data set. 

Make sure you have the Netpbm command line utilities installed. For Windows you'll need to have Cygwin installed and then select/install the package. For Ubuntu you can install it with the command: In Photoshop (or similar) convert your image to a PNG file with 24 bit color and transparancy and save as inputfile.png At the command line run the following command Load the PAM file back into Photoshop. You will see that the you have the original RGB values from the original image without any transparency. You may see some rough edges of solid color where there were previously transitions to full transparency in the original image. Don't worry about it for now because the layer mask will fix it. Convert the background to a layer (Layer menu -> New -> Layer from Background ) Create a selection from the alpha channel (Select menu -> Load Selection and choose Alpha 1 as the Channel) Convert the selection to a layer mask (Layer menu -> Layer Mask -> Reveal selection) 

MKV and MP4 are container formats. Internally they contain video and audio which could have been encoded in a variety of formats, commonly referred to as codecs. Examples of video codecs include h.264 and mpeg2. Examples of audio codecs include MP3 and AAC. There a many more codecs and some are more widely supported than others. It appears that your file contains an audio format which the Xbox One does not support. Converting the file from MKV to MP4 probably only changed the container format leaving the audio and video contained inside unaltered, so your problem was not fixed. You need to transcode the audio using a program such as Handbrake (GUI) or ffmpeg (command line) to a codec supported by the Xbox One. 

You're very unlikely to find a terminal program which will do this. If you did, your audience would probably be distracted by it and your presentation would be less effective than you think it is now. 

You can create a Search Folder for "Mail from specific people" and add your team members to it. It will also contain messages from your team members that are NOT in your Team folder but that shouldn't be an issue. 

It sounds to me like you want RAID for its ability to aggregate drives into a single volume and NOT for its redundancy, although you still want to be able to access the data on unfailed drives. You can use Win7's Libraries to group together different folders and volumes in a single location (Libraries) in the GUI while still retaining them as distinct drives. Alternatively, you can use the Disk Management Console to map a drive into an empty NTFS folder. For example, if you have two NTFS volumes mapped to C: and D: you could instead create an empty folder called, say, C:\Data and unassign the drive letter D: and map that filesystem to C:\Data. After that, you will see the contents of what used to be D: in C:\Data 

It appears from your column title that you have the date and time in separate columns. To graph the connections per second over more than one day you will need to merge the date and time into a single datetime value. The simplest way to do that is simply add the the date and time together in another column (assuming your date and time data is correctly formatted and Excel is interpreting them as such). 

If it is, then your EPS file is probably corrupt. If it is not, then your file is probaby another format or it may have been compressed prior to download, using a common format like ZIP. 

Since you've said this is a recurring problem, a script is appropriate. Here's a Lua script to get you going. Edit: I've updated the script based on your additional information. It will take a file containing filenames, sort them and create a new file in the sorted order. Script (edited) 

If you are doing this in a batch file then use %%i instead of %i. If you want to change the type of output file (eg. to MP4) then use "%~ni.mp4" as the output filename. You should put %i in quotation marks so filename with spaces are handled correctly. 

By default, exiftool seems to create copies of the originals with the extension before modifying them. 

I like to install the SciTE text editor, on both Linux and Windows. I find it much better then the default GUI text editors provided on both platforms and having the same editor on both platforms is a big productivity booster for me. 

There's no need for VBA or formulae. Excel's pivot table feature is designed for this type of data summary. 

Holding down the Alt key should allow you to select a column of text. (Note: I've only tested this with Acrobat Pro, not Acrobat Reader.) 

I've successfully used Symantec's Norton Ghost to take a full image of XP Pro on RAID volumes on on older Intel motherboard with 925 chipset. This was all circa 2005 so I can't comment on recent versions of Ghost and their support for current Intel RAID implementations, but it will probably work. Norton Ghost would be initiated inside XP but would then restart and boot independently of XP thus avoiding any locking issues. The resulting image could then be explored within XP. I was also able to restore the image and boot from it. It all appeared to work as advertised. YMMV. 

Assuming you are talking about a motherboard not accepting a Core 2 Duo processor... The most likely scenario is that the motherboard is not compatible with Core 2 Duo processors. This is not due to the number of cores but the type of processor not suiting your motherboard. There is no trick to make a Core 2 Duo look like an older model processor. Check your motherboard manufacturer's web site for a list of supported processors. Depending on the age of your motherboard, it may be as simple as a firmware upgrade to support Core 2 Duo or it may not be possible at all. To get a better answer here you'll have to provide the manufacturer/model of your motherboard and the model number of your Core 2 Duo. The current BIOS version on your motherboard would also help. 

No, zipping a file cannot break it. Providing your zip file is not corrupted, it will reproduce the identical file when unzipped. In this case, difference between fonts installed on the two different systems may cause issues but that is completely unrelated to the zip/unzip process. 

If you don't mind being obvious to your friend about it, remove the HDD and give him a Linux live CD to boot. 

You've probably already tried something similar to this - maybe you could elaborate on where it is failing for you. I got the best results by applying the conditional formatting to the first row in a column, then removing the absolute cell reference and then using the Format Painter to copy the conditional format to the other cells in the column. 

If you mean a mirror, then yes. Mirrors take less time to rebuild (no parity) so your data would be at risk for a shorter duration. 

You could try using Lab color space for this. After you have created your RGB channels as you have described, convert your image to Lab Color mode () and paste your brightfield channel into L. You can then optionally convert back to RGB mode. If you don't want to completely overide the brightness as defined by the RGB values, you could experiment with copying the L channel to a new grayscale image and overlaying your brightfield on it before pasting a flattened copy back to your L channel. 

Make your data range on Sheet1 a List. Then make sure your pivot table's data range is the list, not just a cell range. This is automatic if you make your pivot table from an existing list. When you add data to a list, the list automatically grows. All you need to do is hit Refresh on your pivot table and it will reflect any changes/additional data in the list. 

Select the region or entire sheet where you want to clear the numbers. Press Ctrl + G to bring uo the Go To dialog box. Select Select and (be sure to deselect Text, Logicals and Errors). Select - now your selection will be reduced to just the cells that contain numbers. Press Delete to delete the contents of the selected cells. 

Wake on Lan is a good solution, as pointed out by @Sylvester. If you want even more remote control then HP offers a Remote Access Card for the N40L Microserver. It is an add-in card that allows you to access the server through a browser or SSH and allows you to power up/down, enter the BIOS and even boot the server using an image on your client, mounted as a virtual floppy disk, CD or DVD. See the User Manual (5MB PDF) for details. 

Then specify the type of cells you want and click and only those types of cells will remain selected.