You can use Izarcc (Izarc command line) to compress and encrypt the backup files. $URL$ You can use blat to send the compressed archive via email $URL$ You can easily write a batch file to combine the compress/encrypt/send-by-email task. Anyhow, I suggest you to use the more convenient solution offered by Crashplan. $URL$ Install, configure and forget it. 

Obviously when you have to summarize your data in a 2x2 table, you have to choose which variable titles the rows, which one titles the columns and which one gives values. But remember: first comes data structure, then come summary tables. Are you interested in brand price trend? Build a table Name x Date with cells containing price values. Are you interested in brand stock trend? Build a table Name x Date with cells containing stock values. 

On XP, during hibernation a progress bar shows me how long I have to wait for completing the operation. On Seven, I see no progress bar and the monitor turn off at once while the OS saves the ram on the disk. Same thing during the wake up process after the hibernation. Is it possible to have the progress bar for hibernation and following wake up on Seven? 

I'm connected through a public wifi hotspot. No problem when using IExplorer. When I use Firefox, I obtain the following error message after asking for any https url, as for example $URL$ 

I have experienced several times that Find command does not provide all the results. So I prefer to use the wonderful Agent Ransack utility. 

It is not simple with only SUBTOTAL function. The only way is to add a column of products between the two columns (columns, not rows) of data, and then calc correlation as a function of SUBTOTAL functions. 

I have set up a mail-marge in Word 2003. The source is a document where each field is a formatted text as the following one: I have different pieces of text to insert. However, when I insert such a Merge Field in my primary document, it losts its original formatting. Is it possible to retain all the formatting I have set in the source document file? 

Your usually get this type of error message from VS 2010 when your application hangs or is still executing and you didn't close it. I recommend trying the following variants: 

If I were you I would try to combine all the sticks in any config to try to get a working configuration. Some ram controllers get the timings of the first stick from one bank and assume that the other stick(s) support the same timings. Therefore if you put the best ram in the first slot, the other ram sticks may fail since they do not support those timings. Don't worry about damaging your ram, if the config doesn't work.. it will not boot. Or it will boot with errors.. and that's why .. after you get a working configuration test it with a program like Prime95 that has specific tests for the memory. HTH, Ioan Paul 

When trying to use a different power supply it is best to use one with the recommended voltage and at least the minimum recommended amperage. I can tell you for sure that the power consumption of a laptop is much lower than that of a desktop computer. All the components inside a laptop are optimised for low power consumption while in a desktop power draw is not the main priority but performance and "bang for the buck" :). I have a power consumption meter and a PC and a laptop, and in normal operation the PC draws about 200 watts while the laptop stays under 50 watts. Both have Intel Core 2 duo CPUS E7300 (pc) and T7300 (laptop). And I've never seen the laptop reach 100W consumption. Later Edit: As for the clarification question, the GPU is also optimized and draws less power, the whole platform is optimised so that the laptop has only a fraction of the power requirement of a desktop, and that's why the AC Adapter doesn't need any fans and stuff.. on the other hand, the AC Adapter might get warm to hot from time to time, but it still doesn't need to have the output of a PC PSU and it doesn't need the fans.. 

No idea what a “DPC spike” is, but “issue introduced”, “Windows audio would stop” and so on makes me think this may be precisely my problem. I’ve installed the new driver, and if the issue doesn’t come back (it’s been ongoing since I last posted), then the problem really was a driver issue. I’ll update here in a while with an answer if the problem really is gone (if I remember to). 

I don’t know why it keeps switching back and forth, but it seems to coincide with a lot of the audio crashes. 

Update: I still haven’t fixed the BSODs (or positively IDed the cause), but I’ve figured out what causes the Internet connectivity problem and how to resolve it. The VPN’s “Killswitch” feature, which disables your connection whenever the VPN app is running and disconnected, works by removing the network adapter’s IPv4 default gateway; it replaces it when you exit the app normally, but obviously not when the system suddenly crashes. To fix, all I have to do – as I found after endless trial & error – is restart my modem and wait a bit. Almost anticlimactic. 

Update: Found something else when the sound cut just now: In Event Viewer, under “Application and Services Logs > Microsoft > Windows > Audio > PlaybackManager”, there’s just as many events, and they reveal that the sampling rate switches a lot between the default: 

Even more update: My AudioBox USB driver/firmware just updated to v2.6.0, and the release notes say this: 

There’s also a bunch that says rather than . Does anyone have any idea how to troubleshoot this? I’m really not any kind of expert. Any and all help is appreciated. 

[Rewritten for conciseness and clarity.] My setup: I have a PreSonus AudioBox USB connected to my laptop (Asus G750Z-DB73) via USB 3.0. The AudioBox driver, bundled with the app “Universal Control”, is regularly updated (currently v2.5.3). I’m running Windows 8.1 Pro (x64). As of a couple weeks ago (I cannot remember whether this coincides with an AudioBox driver update), my computer’s audio frequently and randomly cuts out; no apps make any sound, and the volume slider doesn’t produce any “ding” when clicked (the little green volume level bar is frozen). I fix this by either restarting the Windows Audio service in Task Manager or manually disconnecting and reconnecting the AudioBox USB cable; afterwards the audio starts working immediately. I still have to restart most open apps (such as Firefox) to “unmute” them, though. This happens very unpredictably; the sound can cut out five times in as many minutes whilst watching a video, then keep working without issue for the next several hours. Pursuant to the replies, I’ve checked the Event Viewer, and I found something interesting: Under “Application and Services Logs > Microsoft > Windows > Audio”, the “GlitchDetection” log is absolutely packed with events (it says “Number of events: 2,597 (!) New events available”), up to dozens per second. Most of them are the same (the numbers vary slightly): 

Pano (unfortunately no more supported) and All In Tabs Helper integrate themselves with All in One Sidebar as you wish. 

If you are not able to derive the regression coefficients by yourself, you can simply substitute r values with r values divided by 10. That is: 30 becomes 3, 60 becomes 6, and so on. You will realize that Excel re-calculate coefficients more precisely, because it will use more significant digits. 

You have to use VBA to accomplish your goal. Feel free to modify the routine below, which colors the background of the current cell, according to your needs. 

You can format columns to unlock cells which are user-input, and then set conditional formatting for columns in your table specifying the formula condition =CELL("protect", ) as condition. Or you can set the following udf: 

You cannot manage the number of page through "Rows to repeat at top". The only way to do what you are asking is to customize the page header in Printing > Page setup, as explained here: $URL$ 

Put "Elementary", "Middle School", "High School", "" in B1:B4. Then, assuming that your list is in column J and you want the processed list in column K, input the following formula in K2 confirming with Ctrl+Shift+Enter and copy down. 

I don't remember if I have create a (not-hidden) TrueCrypt volume in one of my partitions and copied some files there. I've tried my usual password but it does not work. So, before reformatting such partition, I wish to know if there is a method to detect the presence of a TC volume in such partition. I already know TCHunt but it works only for files and folders, not partitions. 

I have installed Ubuntu on a partition of my external usb drive. Since I had problems with grub2, I have uninstalled it and installed grub1. But then the usb drive didn't boot anymore, and I am forced to the limited shell of grub1. If I write manually 

Did you look on the website of the seller that you bought the netbook from or just a random web site ? For instance here: $URL$ the netbook has the same specs yours has. Take into account that configurations can be different for different countries, or can even be different from one vendor to another. Secondly, you can upgrade the CPU of a laptop. But what you have is not a laptop but a netbook and usually netbooks have the CPU on their motherboard and that means that you can only change it and that you can't upgrade it separately. 

Yes you can. Make sure that you have enabled in BIOS the option to boot from other devices and adjust the boot order so that the dvd drive is accessed before the hard drive. Performance wise, it depends on the speed of the dvd drive and the speed of the usb port you plug it into, but generally speaking, today I presume that your laptop has USB 2 ports and that would be a more than decent speed (30Mb/s maximum), therefore the bottleneck should actually be the reading speed of the dvd drive (aproximately 1,3Mb for each 1x .. that would be 13Mb/s at 10x read speed) 

Most probably, since you can use the old pair and the new pair, the two pairs are not compatible. You can validate this by trying to mix the two pairs.. use one stick from the first pair and one from the second, if it doesn't work just for the hang of it try with the other 2 sticks and if this also doesn't work then the memories are absolutely incompatible. Note also that in most cases you can also put in 3 sticks of ram, it's not absolutely necesary to use pairs (unless your board can work with memories in dual channel) and you want to use that. Other than that if you find that there is any configuration when 3 sticks work.. you can also install 3 Gb. It will be much better in most cases then 2 Gb with dual channel. 

I'm just switched from XP to Seven. I have transferred my Firefox and Thunderbird profiles to my old XP pc to my new Seven pc. Firefox and Thunderbird work as expected, apart that with Thunderbird now when I click on a url inside a message text nothing happens, while before the browser window was loaded and the url page opened. What could be the problem source? 

You write: However, this requires applying that formula to every cell in the primary column of the overview sheet. And even then the range of the table isn't extended down to include new rows as they become valid. You cannot escape from these two requirements if at least you don't set the maximum length of the list in your first sheet. 

Your idea is fine for me. You can set up a table in an empty sheet where first column lists parameter meaningful names, and each one of the successive columns contains a different parameter value set. Then, on the "bunch calculation" sheet you set up a unique cell to choose a column of the table in the other sheet, and in the cells containing parameters you have to define a formula that using INDEX function retrieves the right value from the parameters table. So, changing the value of only one cell you realize istantly a whole different calculation without having to select a different sheet. 

I have made some images perfectly overlapped in a slide. Now I have to build a custom animation that makes one of them at a time appearing and disappearing according to a complicated sequence. Unfortunately, when I try to select an image only the most foreground one is selected, and I am not able to select all the other ones. How can I select a specific overlapped image to attach an animation to it? 

Make a pivot table, group date field by hour as explained in $URL$ then insert a chart based on pivot table.