confirm with CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER and copy down Note that this gives 137 for your sample - Gary has only 27 days, not 35 Update: I found a way to shorten the above using function, i.e. 

In use your 3 formulas to get , , and then in E2 use this "array formula" to get the corresponding values from B1:B5, while accounting for possible duplicates: 

If there are any text values in column N (e.g. header row) then those won't give the same number (hence #N/A error) because COUNT only counts numbers, COUNTA counts all entries. I suggest you change to COUNTA throughout because using COUNT will ignore the last row if you have a header row You can probably also simplify a little, don't think you need the part in the new condition, why not just look for cells that start with As and When (.....and you could use rather than checking for blanks or zeroes as divisors, i.e. including new condition (and COUNTA throughout as suggested) that would be: 

The ANDs aren't really required - for example the first IF deals with any values <= 16, so for the next IF you don't need to specify > 16, that must be the case - similarly the last IF isn't required - it can't be FALSE because you have exhausted all other possibilities. I would start at the other end of the spectrum, too - this formula should give the required results: 

My understanding is that the could be "Why, Hello There!" or "DHS Here" and you want that to match respectively with "Hello" and "DHS" in the lookup range. Given that then for a formula approach try the following: 

You can do this relatively simply with an "array formula" without adding any columns, e.g. for a range up to column Z 

can refer to a whole row if you put a zero in the column ref, e.g. assuming up to 1000 rows of customer data try this formula 

confirmed with CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER So gives you the transposed column and then gives a matrix of the sum of every possible pair. The function excludes "reversed pairs" (e.g. excludes because is already included) and the pairs which are each number summed with itself, and then function gives you the required result If the range is a row of data rather than a column then you need to use 2 x functions in place of the functions Note: the excluded pairs are only specifically each cell with itself, that doesn't exclude the possibility of two equal numbers being summed, so if A2 = A7 then you still have the pair included (but not or or the reversed ) 

returns each row as a separate range, finds the max value [4] in each row and counts how many of those values are >15. It's also possible to do the same with instead of SUBTOTAL, i.e. 

How is that possible? Is there a way to get the real value (should be nothing, except if truly exists)? 

Placed that file in /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/ Copied the file in /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50-synaptics.conf to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/ Changed the priority number of 50-magictrackpad.conf to 49-magictrackpad.conf 

I have a Chromebook where I installed Crouton. I have plugged an SD Card and Chromebook detects it as "External Drive". In my Ubuntu instance, it's located at /media/removable/External Drive/ but this poses some problems for executing some applications I have installed on that external drive. In order to fix the problem, I need to remove all the spaces in the path, which is located in "External Drive". My question is simple, is it possible to move/rename the mount name "External Drive" to something else and doing it automatically at every mount/boot ? Thank you for your help ! 

I plan to buy a 4k 28" screen in order to replace my dual full-hd screen. The main reason for this is to have "more screens" in front of me. I plan to use it like if I had 4 full hd screens in front of me, meaning I will have 4 various applications opened at the same time and visible. I know that in theory, it would be possible but before purchasing it, I'd like to be sure that in practice, this is something really feasible and enjoyable to have ; not having quircks, bad pixels, or anything like this. That's the reason for my question, I'm turning to those owner of 4K screens to know if what I want to do is possible or not. (Note: I plan to take a 28" instead of a 24" (like Dell's) for the same reason : having enough visual space to place the equivalent of 4 full hd screens. I'm afraid a 24" would be too small). Thank you in advance. 

Is it possible for a motherboard supporting pci express 16x v2.0 max to display 4k resolution using a graphical card that works on v3.0 ? Thanks for your help. 

I'm trying to update from Fedora 25 to Fedora 27 using the GUI but when the download is done, I get an error message saying: 

Sooo, good news, it works! I don't know how really but after playing with the Bios the docking station works correctly. USB Powershare must be enabled (I've tried without, and it didn't worked) And regarding the other parameters, I've unchecked "Always allow Dell docks" and checked everything else. The security level is at . 

I'm working on the same directory with some friends and they access it via SSH. I added us in the same group and defined a sticky bit to keep the user:group values the same. But when a user create a file/folder, the Write attribute is not defined for the group, disabling other to write it/on it. How can I define the Umask to add the Write value for groups in the specific directory and it's subfolders ? I tried to find some help before, but I only saw helps for Fedora/CentOs, and I'm using Debian Squeeze. Thanks for your help 

has a third argument that defines the start position of the search, if you apply an array of integer values 1 to n (where n is the length of A1) to that parameter you get an array back with the last number being the position of the last space. then extracts that number by searching for a value greater than any value that might be found in that array, in which case the last number is found In or later you could also use function like this 

You can't use because as with Excel the criteria ranges can't be arrays and therefore can't be modified by functions or calculations. Try this for google sheets 

Update: I checked this by putting time values in one column and then used your formula in the next column, so where my time values started at A2 I used this formula in B2 copied down 

If the size of might be variable, or some cells may not be populated you could make the part depend on the number of values in , i.e. 

The family of functions don't work with closed workbooks, try , e.g. for a single workbook to replicate your count 

I don't think I completely understand your question or the exact ranges in question so this is a generic method to find the value in one column, given a criteria in another column and then return a value from a third column. Perhaps you can fit it to your specific data. This method allows columns to be in any order but for example purposes assume that the criteria is in , the values (from where we want the ) are in and we want to return a value from , assuming criteria in this case is 

You can't use with array formula because the result is a single value rather than an array - try like this which uses * to simulate 

You could use or for this - is usually preferable because it's not a "volatile" function like . For a specific item name in E2 use this formula to get the column B range of data for that item number 

If you can make use of function then it's simpler to return all the possibilities in one cell, e.g. with this array formula 

Assuming you have time stamps in A3:A24 and status in B3:B24 as per Kaze's suggestion then you can get the [decimal] hours for a date in D3 with this formula 

That will happily ignore any text like "New" in column A..... ....or does the column B entry have to be specifically Feb 2014? If so try 

You don't really need to use and , try either modifying your original formula by using TRUE as range_lookup, which will make it behave as you want, i.e. 

But oddly enough, when I re-run that scripts, it found the same quantity of emails (like none were deleted) and re-delete the previously deleted one (because they are still present). Is there a command to run once some items in the queue has been deleted (some kind of clear/clean command)? 

While playing with the DNS of test.com, I discovered that if I query anything, I get a valid response. For example: 

Note that I'm trying to match the product "Apple" for specifically getting the Magic Trackpad 2. After a reboot, it doesn't seems to work, when calling I get the following message : 

I'm trying to make my Magic Trackpad 2 work on Fedora with all it's features (or at least some basics). The current (default) state is moving the mouse and left-clicking work out of the box, but right clic (double fingers clic) or scroll doesn't work, which is a huge issue. I've been Googling to find the solution and everything I've found is dating back from january 2016, so at least a year old. I believe that there has been some major improvment since then. I read that Ubuntu started handling multitouch support in 10.10 so I believe it should be widely working as of today. I've saw that some people recommend mtrack, others Ginn. Ideally, it would be awesome to have here a place that explains in great length how to configure a Linux system to support the Magic Trackpad 2 in the best way possible (up to the latest possibilities, like three-finger tracking, etc), using either Synaptics, libinput, mtrack or ginn. Whatever work best. If someone already have a Magic Trackpad 2 working well under linux, it would be great to get some help. Thanks :) 

I mean, who thoughts this would be a great idea? If you open a file in, say Gedit, copy some text, close Gedit THEN paste somewhere, it doesn't work. This is the stupidest user experience never implemented, and I'm surprised it comes from Linux/Gnome. So I'm wondering, is there a way to avoid it? Like an option to toggle to save the copy in actual memory, that can be accessed WHENEVER I want, not up to when I close the original window? ... I can't believe I'm asking this .. 

The odd thing is, I don't think I have Composer installer (tried to do , nothing found). How can I do? Here's my current : 

Problem is, from what I understood, Windows (at least XP) doesn't support multiple partitionned USB keys. So at first I thought about setting data on the first partition and the live cd on a second partition, but I'm not sure it will work in the bios. An other solution would be to set the live cd on the first partition and make it hidden resulting windows to not see it, maybe ? So I'm lost, is there a way to do it like I want ? How ? Thank you for precious help :)