I tried to use remserial to have multiple linux vm's share a remote serial connection, but it didn't work. I believe my problem was due to my application not playing well with the tty designations remserial uses. You may have better luck with it. Here is the remserial website. Here is the wikipedia page where I learned about it (see Open Source Solutions section). 

Yes, to all the stuff that requires installation (Office, photoshop etc). No, to all the pictures and documents. You will simply need to find them once you reinstall. This assumes you don't wipe the drive during the re-install. You will have the option of wiping the drive or simply installing another instance. 

For the standard shortcuts, refer to this list and setup a hotkey instance to override it. For example, I made an ALT & F4 hotkey, which would normally close the active window, and made it enter some text instead. It works: 

That only fixes each instance. To disable a key (ALT) by itself use: ALT::Return For more on that see this. Watch out for other key combinations made possible by installed software/reg edits such as this video card instance. 

I'm a dummy. I had misidentified the failing disk and was trying to use the bad one in my recovery effort. For anyone interested, you can use lshal to get the s/n of the bad drive. redirect lshal's output to a log file and then search for sda sdb or whatever mdadm or SMART identified as being bad. 

The crap-ware you keep installing. If you don't use it, un-install it. Before installing anything ever again, do a little research into what the best apps are to do what your trying to do without a lot of overhead (post such a question on SuperUser--you'll get rep points!) The next biggest thing is your anti-virus and other "security" type software. Throw that all away and learn how to surf safely. If you must download something from an unknown source, run it through virustotal.com before executing. I don't care what they say you can survive just fine without anti-virus software running on your machine. I'm not saying you should shut off windows firewall, just don't add an anti-virus or internet security suites. 

While jet's answer probably will apply to many cases, my problem was that I had typed the "<<" and ">>" brackets manually. You can't do that. You have to use the "Insert Merge Fields" dialogue. See here for those that might find themselves in the same boat. 

Now I get I/O errors. I tried with the corrupt drive removed and then with it in again. Same show. The write ups I've found show this to be a simple recovery process. What gives? Anyone encounter anything similar? It appears as though the boot process is still continuing, though it's taking eons to go through each step. Has anyone ever had to wait so long to reach the prompt? Hopefully, if I can't get to the prompt I can get somewhere with the rescue cd. 

I need to purchase PowerPoint 2010 and install it on another pc over vpn. So I guess the order would be: 

I have a seldom used piece of computer hardware I'd like to connect a gaming headset to. The headset has two 3.5mm plugs (mic and sound) like this: 

Stick A is bad. I suppose it is remoteley possible that the stick component that is bad is not an actual memory chip, but some other supporting chip used for slot addressing. If that is true, you should be able to run fine with Stick A in slot 3. I encourage you to leave stick A in slot 3 and test by seeing if the original issues persist. If they do, buy a replacement for A and make note that Memtest86 has limitations. 

I would like to lock a file so that it cannot be accessed for a period of time. At the end of the time, I should be able to access the file normally. Is this possible? Clarifying comment: 

I found this folder the other day when I got a "drive full" notice. It was full of files randomly named like the folder itself (see pic below). I deleted all I could, but there was 1 file that was being used, and that remains and is growing. What's the best way to go about identifying what process/program is responsible? 

I don't even have to go look and can tell you it is garbage--just from your description. You basically answered your own question: "it doesn't look like it does anything useful." Billion$ are made by crap-ware peddlers who sell to people who don't know how to do proper pc housekeeping themselves--and they don't really help after all. 

I connected my digital camera to my new HP dv7 laptop and Snapfish came up and offered to move all the photos to the pc and to their service. This tells me that Snapfish is installed at least to some extent. However, I could not find it in the start menu or in Control Panel's Uninstall list. I did find it by the "search programs and files" box in the start menu. How can I remove this and any other fugitive programs that might be lurking around sucking up my system's resources. 

Look at that! Now its some bizzare format I do not recognize. And wait, if I do the drop down undo button, this is what I see: 

My needs are simple, I think: I have a laptop upstairs with a usb wifi that I use to connect to my neighbor's wifi which I share (with their knowledge). I have a laser printer downstairs that my wife doesn't wants to stay down there (big, bulky and ugly), but that we both need to print stuff off. It has wired networking and I have wired hub and router down there. The usb wifi on the laptop has absolutley the best reception I've ever seen or heard of. I cannot get onto the neighbor's net with the thing downstairs though--sortof in the ground. What do I need downstairs to give printer access to my laptop wirelessly? One thing I can't do in this solution is have a computer on downstairs, so I would think that would eliminate a usb solution. 

The jack I need to plug into is a 2.5mm monaural (don't ask me why--I know it sounds goofy but it's for someone else who's very picky). I googled a few different ways but I could only find splitters such as this for going from 2 x 3.5mm to 1 3.5mm. If I could find one that could combine it properly to 1 3.5mm, I could then find a 3.5mm to 2.5mm adapter. I know I could probably vivisect and work something out, but I need it to be very clean. Any ideas? 

So, I set all sda's partitions to "failed," removed all sda mirrors successfully, put a brand new 2tb identical drive in (after shutdown) and booted. Now, I cannot reach the login because error messages keep repeating after md: autodetect raid array is reached during the boot process. At first the errors were something like: 

When I used the find command, I almost always need to search the local drives. But, I almost always have super large network shares mounted and these are included in the search. Is there an easy way to exclude those in the find command, grep and other similar commands? Example: 

I finally got an answer from the citrix forum: "There are no snapshot files. Virtual disks (including snapshots) in an LVM SR are stored as volumes. You can manage volumes with commands in the lvm2 package (run rpm -vV lvm2 to see the included commands)." Here is the full thread. 

Go on Ebay and get one that is identical. I've done it before successfully. I don't remember what brand but I'm pretty sure it was WD or Maxtor. 

I used windows diskpart to clean and format a 64mb compact flash card I use to backup work on industrial machines. Prior to this diskpart format, I was able to boot to this compact flash card by placing 2 files on the drive and powering on the machine (windows embedded). Now, I can put the same files on the drive, but the disk will no longer boot. What could diskpart have done to this disk to make it unbootable? The diskpart commands I ran were: