Pano (unfortunately no more supported) and All In Tabs Helper integrate themselves with All in One Sidebar as you wish. 

I have made some images perfectly overlapped in a slide. Now I have to build a custom animation that makes one of them at a time appearing and disappearing according to a complicated sequence. Unfortunately, when I try to select an image only the most foreground one is selected, and I am not able to select all the other ones. How can I select a specific overlapped image to attach an animation to it? 

You can use Izarcc (Izarc command line) to compress and encrypt the backup files. $URL$ You can use blat to send the compressed archive via email $URL$ You can easily write a batch file to combine the compress/encrypt/send-by-email task. Anyhow, I suggest you to use the more convenient solution offered by Crashplan. $URL$ Install, configure and forget it. 

Put "Elementary", "Middle School", "High School", "" in B1:B4. Then, assuming that your list is in column J and you want the processed list in column K, input the following formula in K2 confirming with Ctrl+Shift+Enter and copy down. 

Don't confuse data structure with data analysis. Your data have four variables: name, date, stock, price, which together represent a single unit-block and so the natural way to organize them is: 

On XP, during hibernation a progress bar shows me how long I have to wait for completing the operation. On Seven, I see no progress bar and the monitor turn off at once while the OS saves the ram on the disk. Same thing during the wake up process after the hibernation. Is it possible to have the progress bar for hibernation and following wake up on Seven? 

If you are not able to derive the regression coefficients by yourself, you can simply substitute r values with r values divided by 10. That is: 30 becomes 3, 60 becomes 6, and so on. You will realize that Excel re-calculate coefficients more precisely, because it will use more significant digits. 

A slight modification of the Taskkill answer: You can use wildcard if you don't remember/know the exact full name of the process, like so: 

By default, the main window has each torrent listed individually. I'd like to place some torrents in a "folder" (imagine collapsing a branch in a tree view list). Is there a way to group torrents and collapse them in the main torrent list? 

This is what I ended up doing for myself: I took the font file from and edited all its emoji symbols to contain the "not defined" symbol at the very end of the Unicode range. Using FontForge editor, I copied it and pasted over all the emoji symbols (), and installed it as a system font, and gave it a unique name so it could be used in Firefox as a custom installed font (as described in the other answer here) and now every emoji symbol is a square. You could use an empty space symbol instead if you want, but then you won't be able to see where an emoji is expected to be, and it might be a bit confusing. 

Not sure about other versions, but in Windows 7 you can simply create a shortcut in your user folder (for example, ) and name it whatever you want. You can then press Start with your mouse or hit Winkey and type its name to start the linked application quickly. You can add custom launch parameters in that link if you want. Also the link stays in your user folder and this means other users won't be bothered by its existence, in case they want different things to run after typing the same short name. If for some reason the search function is disabled on your Windows and you don't have the search bar in Start menu (maybe because of some silly corporate policies) you can still launch that app but through the Run window, which is called by the key combo WinKey+R, type the name there and hit Enter. This is my preferred way because it doesn't take even that part-second to "find" the app link through the search bar. 

Obviously when you have to summarize your data in a 2x2 table, you have to choose which variable titles the rows, which one titles the columns and which one gives values. But remember: first comes data structure, then come summary tables. Are you interested in brand price trend? Build a table Name x Date with cells containing price values. Are you interested in brand stock trend? Build a table Name x Date with cells containing stock values. 

Make a pivot table, group date field by hour as explained in $URL$ then insert a chart based on pivot table. 

I'm connected through a public wifi hotspot. No problem when using IExplorer. When I use Firefox, I obtain the following error message after asking for any https url, as for example $URL$ 

I have installed Ubuntu on a partition of my external usb drive. Since I had problems with grub2, I have uninstalled it and installed grub1. But then the usb drive didn't boot anymore, and I am forced to the limited shell of grub1. If I write manually 

No function key for these commands, unless someone has recorded a macro to execute them and assigned it to a key combination. 

If the images are in jpg format, it is possible that your client uses a viewer which rotates images according to orientation field in exif data. 

IMO the simplest way to perform such a task is by means of Google docs. Copy your data in an empty Google spreadsheet. Then at, say, F1 write: 

You can format columns to unlock cells which are user-input, and then set conditional formatting for columns in your table specifying the formula condition =CELL("protect", ) as condition. Or you can set the following udf: 

You cannot manage the number of page through "Rows to repeat at top". The only way to do what you are asking is to customize the page header in Printing > Page setup, as explained here: $URL$ 

It seems that Flickr does not have a feed for images licensed by Creative Commons. I cannot use Yahoo Pipes since www.flickr/search does not allow robots. Is it possible to use another fair (legitimate) method? 

By default, in Windows 7 start menu the item "Documents" opens a library containing current user's documents folder and public documents. I'd like to change that behavior to open current user's documents folder. How do I do that? 

I have the same exact motherboard and this error is familiar to me. Indeed you have a bad battery on that board. It can't keep the BIOS settings saved anymore. You need to replace it with a new one for this message to stop appearing. Or ignore this message altogether if you don't need any non-default settings, it's safe like that. (at least nothing happened to my computer in 6 years) 

If you've used Winamp, you know it can play files in a playlist without a noticeable delay. Other players, however, don't do that for various reasons. I'd like to know if it's possible to enable seamless playback in my favorite player, Media Player Classic. 

I prefer disabled font anti-aliasing on my desktop, but some websites use custom fonts that look absolutely horrible without anti-aliasing. I could disable custom fonts completely from Firefox font options, but it'd be better if there was a way to create a list of fonts that are ok to smooth (or better a list of fonts that should not be smoothed and allow all others). Is there a way to (not) smooth specified fonts in Firefox? 

I noticed that a certain torrent, which was the last one in the torrent list, had a strangely colored availability bar. After exceeding the magical number 256, the bar weirds out. Color of the bar changed each time the last torrent was selected. I grabbed a number of screenshots from which I cut only the rightmost fragment of it along with the current availability index: 

Imagine this base configuration: 1-cpu board with a 4-core processor, performance is 100%. How different from that configuration performance-wise will be: 

I like listening to music, but the one thing I can't get with the mobile devices (players, smartphones, notebooks) is the volume and clarity I get from my desktop pc audio card. It's nothing special, the cheapest PCI-E x1 Sound Blaster card, but somehow it sounds a lot better. I have tried listening to external audio cards and their sound is comparable, but they are a lot more expensive, to the point that I can't really think of it as a great value. So I'd like to try and find a way to make internal PCI-E audio cards mobile. Does there exist a common method to mobilize internal PCI-E devices? Perhaps some controller with only the required interfaces and power cables? If not, what does it take to turn a PCI-E audio card into USB-powered mobile version? Again, I'm looking for reasonably prices solutions, but if there are only the expensive ways, I'd still like to know about them. 

I have experienced several times that Find command does not provide all the results. So I prefer to use the wonderful Agent Ransack utility. 

You have to use VBA to accomplish your goal. Feel free to modify the routine below, which colors the background of the current cell, according to your needs. 

Put the data validation rule in the cell which your formula depends on. If, for example, you have in B1 and you have set data validation for B1 (for example ), set validation for A1 instead (for example ). 

I'm just switched from XP to Seven. I have transferred my Firefox and Thunderbird profiles to my old XP pc to my new Seven pc. Firefox and Thunderbird work as expected, apart that with Thunderbird now when I click on a url inside a message text nothing happens, while before the browser window was loaded and the url page opened. What could be the problem source? 

Is there any url shortener with IP tracking? I have tried bit.ly but it only tracks ip country. Any other redirect service with IP tracking? 

as explained at $URL$ next time I boot from usb I am forced again to the grub limited shell. How can I restore a working grub? 

You write: However, this requires applying that formula to every cell in the primary column of the overview sheet. And even then the range of the table isn't extended down to include new rows as they become valid. You cannot escape from these two requirements if at least you don't set the maximum length of the list in your first sheet. 

I don't remember if I have create a (not-hidden) TrueCrypt volume in one of my partitions and copied some files there. I've tried my usual password but it does not work. So, before reformatting such partition, I wish to know if there is a method to detect the presence of a TC volume in such partition. I already know TCHunt but it works only for files and folders, not partitions. 

I'm having trouble installing Nokia BH-100U on my Windows 7 PC (x64). I wanted to use it as a wireless headset for Skype. Currently I'm stuck at the step where the device should be automatically installed by Win7. It doesn't find the appropriate drivers and shows the following message: 

I haven't figured out how to prevent the scrolls from affecting the note page itself. If someone finds a way to block the scroll event from reaching the main note area from within the notes list area, please share your solution so we could combine the scripts for best results. 

Naturally, the headset doesn't appear in audio devices list. I tried deleting/removing it and reinstalling again, and the result is still the same as the first time. My usb-bluetooth dongle for PC can handle a PS4 controller, so it shouldn't be the cause. I also tried installing the headset on my netbook which has a built-in wireless module, but with the same result as on desktop PC. And I tried installing it on the WM6.1 smartphone, which worked just fine. Still, I'd like to find a way to use the bluetooth headset with a Win7 PC. There doesn't seem to exist a separate installation of a "Bluetooth Peripheral Device" driver or anything. It's supposed to be found automatically, but it's not. I also tried installing a Windows Mobile Device Center which didn't help. There was also a suggestion to get a similar thing intended for Vista x32 but it didn't even want to install on my Win7 x64. 

The whole bar became a solid color, which didn't seem to be the average color of the whole bar. Pink, light-green and turquoise were prevalent, with much rarer brownish-tan and purple. Yellow only seems to occur right after the index becomes greater than 256. The weird thing is this persisted even after reloading uTorrent application and rebooting the PC. After the download completed, availability index lowered to 14 and the bar returned to normal. Naturally, I wanted to check things out again, so I deleted data and re-downloaded the torrent to see if this keeps happening. It does. Is this a bug or an intended feature? If so, what do these colors signify?