Why wouldn't the serial be updating? EDIT Based on the comment by yoonix, I've removed all but the one server which I know to be the master for the zone: 

mail attempts to send directly to the recipient which is not allowed on our network. All email must go through the SMTP server. I tried using the -- option to pass sendmail options, but I don't know what the option is that I need to pass. I found in another forum that the -S option followed by smtp=smtp://ip.address is the appropriate choice, but that throws an error stating that the -S option doesn't exist. 

I installed FreeIPA on a VM. I went through the configuration and registered a client with . After adding some users and groups on the IPA server I have confirmed that it is functioning properly. During the configuration there was no question asking which IPs the server should be listening on. Most of the services (kerberos, dns, smtp, etc) are set up to listen on both of the IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. I haven't actually configured IPv6, though so it is only really listening on the link-local address. If I telnet to port 80 either locally via localhost or remotely via the IPv4 address and send a the response tells me that the "document has moved" with a link to the https URL. But, since it isn't listening on port 443 at the IPv4 address I'm unable to get to it. Also, despite being able to telnet to port 80 remotely, if I attempt to navigate to the same IP in my browser I get "Server not found". Same result if I navigate to the https URL. How can I configure the Web UI to listen on IPv4? I only need port 443. 

I'm trying to get Ansible to set up the EPEL repository on a new AWS instance. It fails if I use the module. If I use the module and try to install it over the wire it reports as successful but doesn't actually do anything. module: 

What I'm curious about now is how to tell the rescue environment to get the rescue image from a URL. I'm unfamiliar with all of the kernel options and Rescue mode seems to be a special case anyway. I tried "URL=", but that doesn't do anything. Is this possible? 

There are not other obvious errors. When using simpler partitions the installation goes through cleanly. The lvm partitioning scheme in the kickstart file that fails: 

END EDIT For the zone file in the example, I've incremented the serial number on the master then ran on all of them (master and three slaves). The time stamp on the zone files on each slave is being updated, however, the serial number on the slave doesn't update. The slaves are updating, though: 

Our infrastructure has a Kickstart server which can serve up RHEL6 builds with some post-installation scripting that handles customization and configuration. I'm currently in the process of updating the scripting to handle RHEL5 for those few instances that require it. At this time, I have disabled the automatic execution of the scripts on a RHEL5 test build so that I can run them manually and evaluate output and errors. I'm seeing an odd thing that I've never encountered before. On this clean build, the /etc/hosts file has an entry for a public IP (presumably one of our service provider's). I have no idea how it is getting added. NetworkManager isn't configured to run and I don't think it even has the ability to do that. I'm also pretty sure this is not default behavior for any version of RHEL. Has anyone seen this before or have suggestions as to what I should be looking at to prevent it? 

I'm trying to install a VM using using a kickstart file. I've tried both RHEL 7.0 and RHEL 7.1. In both cases using LVM seems to make the installation fail. After a timeout it drops me to the prompt and informs me that I can find information about the failure using . I've done this and have found nothing. Looking at the file, though, shows errors related to : 

We discovered that the problem is not with iptables itself. We have TrendMicro's Deep Security agent running on these servers and it is breaking iptables. They have acknowledged the issue and our workaround which is setting both dsagent and iptables start scripts to the same start sequence number (S08) rather than having dsagent script start after iptables which it defaults to. 

All other inputs are identical so I'm quite certain that the LVM portion is the culprit. doesn't tell me anything either. Has anyone else experienced this? EDIT: In previous attempts I was running the command as a regular user with sudo. I logged in as root and ran the same command which seemed to work. To a point, anyway. I am now able to get RHEL 7.0 to kickstart with an LVM configuration, but RHEL 7.1 now simply throws . When I submitted the bug report it merely said with little indication as to which settings it could not find. There are a few existing bug reports with this error but none seem to follow the same path that led up to it. As an aside, I'm baffled that Red Hat still has problems with both and . Additionally, it took two attempts to get RHEL 7.0 to actually start the installation. The first attempt left me at the screen with the installation media section stating . I re-ran the same command with the same installation media and kickstart file. This attempt went through cleanly. 

All other traffic through eth0 will be tagged as being from 10.0.1.2 by default. 10.0.1.1 is the default route, but the packets will have a source IP that is properly tagged. 

For some reason I thought IPA was running a tomcat server for the web interface. I think I was confusing it with another application I recently installed. After paying closer attention to the installation output I realized it is only running which made fixing this a lot easier. 

This was clarified by a colleague who had done the same thing recently. The format for the one route to be entered into the route-eth0:0 file is: 

I've been using Ashgar Ghori's RHEL7 study guide and have hit a small snag which I have not been able to find a solution to. Using a kickstart file that worked previously, whenever I use it for a new server I am taken to the Installation Summary screen which indicates under the section. I've searched for a solution but even Red Hat doesn't have anything that helps. There is one article in their knowledgebase that provides some troubleshooting, but the generic kickstart file they provide to test with does the same thing. I've recreated the volume I'm trying to use. I've selected different volumes. I've modified the kickstart file format. Nothing works. This is my kickstart file. EDIT: The details say "Specified upartitioned disk vda in partition command" 

We have an environment that we are tasked with managing while also giving access to projects that run the applications on the servers. Some of those projects have stood up LDAP for authenticating project users. Without getting into the discussion of why we didn't do it right in the first place we would now like to stand up our own LDAP to manage our users while not stepping on the existing LDAP configurations stood up by each project. Basically, our LDAP would be entirely separated from the project LDAP. Is it possible to configure Linux (RHEL) to authenticate against more than one LDAP server? I'm thinking in terms of cascading authentication options: Check LDAP 1 for an account; If no account exists check LDAP 2; If no account exists check locally. It seems like this would be possible, but having never configured LDAP I have no knowledge of whether it actually is a configurable methodology. 

The dialog that contains the error also provides debug information and a backtrace leading up to the error. I have not been able to find any cause of the problem when sifting through this data. I downloaded the RHEL 7.0 installation media. When pointing the VM at that during the configuration the installation does not throw the error and runs normally. I find it strange that on RHEL 7.1 can't install a RHEL 7.1 VM. But that's neither here nor there. Is it possible to add RHEL 7.1 to the list? If so will it be recognized or are there other things that relies on to ensure the process functions correctly? 

With the exception of the option, they are identical. I don't know if this is how they are supposed to be configured. EDIT 3 The NOTIFY announcement appears to only be sent when I restart . I tried and but neither did anything. Only sent the announcement. 

We have Asigra set up by our service provider and we need a way to build better reports than those that are built-in. We have the Java DS-User package installed so, according to Asigra documentation, JasperReports is the option to go with. However, JasperReports Community version is limited in its abilities and paying out for the Enterprise version will be a hard sell. I found that ReportServer provides some of the functionality that the JR Community version has crippled, but I don't know if it is able to connect to Asigra easily. Has anyone put this to use or any other, similar package with Asigra?