You don't specify the switch make and model, so I'm assuming a Cisco switch based on the Tag on the question. If a switchport on a Cisco switch is shut down due to some sort of error or port-security violation, it doesn't automatically come back up. You have to enable as outlined here: $URL$ In short, it explains the following: You can check the existing status of port recovery with: And in mode, you can set the port state you want to recover from with the following command: 

Note: With all of that stated, blocking by IP can become cumbersome very quickly, and is highly ineffective in many cases. Organizations the size of Facebook will constantly be adding new IP space, which will be outside of your filtered range. Some sites might change to using a new CDN, which of course will use a different IP space as well. If you're having specific issues with your HTTPS and URL blocking, depending on the equipment, you could ask in another question for assistance on those specific problems. The answers might better aid you in blocking access to these sites. 

Now, as I stated above, you would just have to poll those values and use them however you need to in your script. 

Although it doesn't answer the specific question of "Why is this happening?", the best answer I could give you is: Don't use the Zone Director for DHCP. Per Ruckus Wireless themselves in the Zone Director User Guide under the "Enabling the Built-in DHCP Server" section: 

EDIT: In the comments, you asked, what would be the impact of removing this Cisco router and replacing it with another vendor's firewall. If you have Cisco VoIP telephones at this location, removing the Cisco ISR will remove their SRST functionality. That is to say, if you lose WAN connectivity to your CUCM cluster, the phones will have no way to stay in service. This possible loss of service can be an acceptable risk, depending on the business purpose of this site and other factors. However, there was likely a good reason (business continuity, revenue generation, etc) for keeping those phones operational at all costs. Someone went through the effort to install the UCCE suite and CVP Survivability, which is usually VERY EXPENSIVE, not to mention complicated to build and maintain. Organizations, in my experience, don't undertake that expense and effort lightly. Make sure that you have contacted whoever is responsible for the telephony portion of your network, and verify with them any plans for equipment replacement. 

Then go into the interface and issue the command "hsrp groupnumber". You will then be able to enter your configuration similarly to in IOS. This actually takes you into a sub-configuration mode as shown below: 

Most likely this is caused by a phone running on a firmware older than 8.5(2) being upgraded to something newer. This is a known issue, documented in the release notes for SCCP firmware release 8.5.(2)SR1: 

Each of these messages is a broadcast packet, sent to a destination of 255.255.255.255. Meaning this will go to all hosts on a particular L2 segment. (By default DHCP is a broadcast centric technology, however you can use DHCP Relay features to cross L3 boundaries.) Also note that DHCP uses UDP ports 67 for the DHCP Server and 68 for the Client. 

I stick by the rule of thumb though, from discussion with Cisco and other people in the last few years, using identical hardware tends to result in a better VSS experience. 

With all of that said, there are still one main concern in my mind. Why locate the server in the building with the Shipping switch? You would be better served by placing it in the main location with your Core switches. If it MUST be attached to the Shipping switch, and you can't make changes to the switches to get a more robust Spanning Tree configuration, you still have a few options. You could increase your bandwidth to each switch in order to handle the hair-pining of VLAN 3 traffic through the core. All of your Dell switches support LACP link aggregation, this would allow you to gain bandwidth easily between the switches to support the IP-Cameras. 

I am about to upgrade the IOS on several hundred Cisco VG224's in preparation for a CUCM upgrade. I am attempting to streamline/automate this process as much as possible, and currently my main problem is the "confirmation" prompts that IOS gives back for the command. For example: 

You are running into one of the fun, new, restrictions of the ISR Generation 2. I assume you have the basic "security" licensing package installed as noted by this part of the message: 

I have been confused by this in the past, so I've tried to break it out for you below. Phase I Lifetime: Phase I lifetime on Cisco IOS routers is managed by the global ISAKMP Policy. However this is not a mandatory field, if you do not enter a value, the router will default to 86400 seconds. 

Also, YES this is in a kitchen and under the hot-water heater... Not by our choice, but that's where the wiring was terminated when we took over the building. As most of you know, you play the hand you're dealt... :) 

You are missing a critical NAT command. Try adding under the outbound dialer interface . With your current configuration you've identified the interface Gig 0/1 as the "Inside" interface, so the router knows when to apply NAT rules to the incoming traffic on that interface. However, since the Dialer 0 interface does not have a NAT statement, the router doesn't know that it needs to translate the addressing and THEN try to route it. Right now, your return traffic from the internet to a NATed host is presumably getting to your router and dying there. 

If you are set on adding additional links, and dealing with VLAN 3 in this way, you have several alternatives (viable or not, depending on your circumstances): 

With all of that said, if you were controlling a phone via one of the phone control APIs that Cisco provides, you may be able to rig something up yourself to do this. It just won't be as neat or integrated as the Cisco solution. It might work something like this: 

I have found the appropriate syntax to have the device not prompt me for the username or password every time. But now, no matter what I do, it still prompts me to confirm the . Is there a way to stop this behavior? 

Currently we're utilizing those ports for OOB management, but will lose that functionality in the Sup-2E's. It isn't the end of the world, but I will need to document/work-around this in the implementation plan. I'm assuming this was an intentional choice on Cisco's part, so does any one know why, or have any documentation with the reasoning behind this choice? 

You say you've read "the official documentation", but does that include the actual RFC, RFC 3561? I believe your concerns are addressed in Section 6.1, Maintaining Sequence Numbers. It says, in part: 

I am adding a new VLAN to an existing trunk port between two Cisco Catalyst switches (3750's). In the process of adding the new VLAN, it appears that I've removed the existing allowed VLANs on the trunk... How is this possible? Existing trunk port configuration: 

However, even the lengthiest reg-ex command in a Cisco device can be shortened by the command. In fact one of my frequently used aliases is to show the exact information you're looking for. Which I will include below. 

R3 now sees the default route (and all other NSSA External/LSA Type 7 routes) with a cost of 25. EVEN the route directly to ASA1 which cost 15 just a moment ago! 

Crypto Map configuration: If you need to change the IPSec lifetime for one connection, but not for all others on the router, you can configure the lifetime on the Crypto Map entry: 

First, I would recommend checking out Cisco's MPLS FAQ For Beginners, or the NANOG Presentation "MPLS for Dummies" by Richard A Steenbergen. They both have some really good information. 

I know there are other options for initially getting the AP to talk to a controller, such as Over-the-Air-Provisioning or placing the AP into a Layer 2 VLAN with a controller. But these seem focused on just getting the AP connected to ANY controller, not priming it for a specific Primary/Secondary controller. I would like to setup some sort of staging/prep area for pre-configuring the new access points, conducting inventory, tagging with asset tags, sorting AP by final deployment area, and so on. In setting up this staging area, is there a better way to prime these AP's quickly and easily? Or are we already doing this in the most efficient manner? 

If you're asking specifically what Areas do in OSPF, there are many resources out there which have a wealth of information. These are just a few selections: 

I am looking at an upgrade from Nexus 7000 Supervisor 1's to Supervisor 2E's. One of the differences that I am seeing is a lack of the CMP (Connectivity Managment Processor) and the CMP port. Even on the config guide for CMP, here, it says: 

I'm assuming you're speaking mainly about 10/100/1000 Ethernet. The key thing to understand is that as far as Ethernet is concerned, there can only be one frame sent at a time (one sent and one received if it is operating in Full Duplex). There is no "parallelism" in the sense of more than one frame leaving the NIC at any given time. This is where a discussion of buffers and queuing comes into play, which I won't get into here. The system using the network card is capable of sustaining many different flows of traffic, destined for many different locations (or all to the same location). However they don't leave the NIC at the same time. I would recommend reading the Wikipedia article on Ethernet or checking out the O'Reilly book Ethernet: The Definitive Guide for more information. Both link you out to many relevant sources. 

If you know the port of interest (or want to see all ports) and just want to see which voice VLAN is in use on that port, you are looking for something like the following: 

Secondly, if you don't have an IGP running, or don't want to redistribute into it, you could utilize Inter-VRF routing with VRF lite (as laid out by Stretch over at PacketLife), and take the routes from each provider into a VRF on each Core router, and export them to the appropriate VRF: 

With all of that stated, there may be some other scenario where they HAVE to use VLANs 10 and 20. Ask your carrier for the explanation as to why this is the case. If your carrier is difficult to work with in this scenario, (won't provide an explanation, or work around your local VLAN structure) imagine what they'll be like during a service outage. Always use the install process to test your service provider! If customer service isn't on their radar, you should be leery of their services. That is to say, if they perform poorly on the install, you usually have more of the same "quality service" to look forward to for the length of your entire contract. 

Finally, I can shutdown the link between R4 and ASA1 again, and the cost between R3 and ASA1 decrements back to 15. 

So, assuming you're using CUCM, you can approach this several ways. I recommend uploading the 8.5(2) firmware files to your TFTP server. Once you have the 8.5(2) firmware on your TFTP server, you can do the following (Cisco has a more in depth "How-To" located on their Support Forums): 

See this very helpful diagram of the traffic flow through an F5 LTM. You will notice that new traffic is matched against Virtual Servers, SNAT, and NAT for all actions. 

Based on my testing, you would just have to edit the existing configuration to specify the speed you want on Line 8, for example if that is where you connected your new device. I tested this on a Cisco 2611 with the NM-16A async module. Existing configuration: 

For example to permit ICMP (for IPv4) I usually just let a few ICMP type/codes through to all destinations (in your case, I'll give an example with just those hosts that have static NAT translations). 

Secondly, from the CUCM Software Compatability Matrix PDF, (sourced from Cisco Support documentation here), we can find a rough guide of what CUCM Version Number matches which System Version number. This has always in my experience proved to be an accurate guide. For example: 

1) It is possible to have multiple subnets "behind" one router; the Internet would be a very broken place with millions more routers needed if it were not. However, your example of using a /16 subnet mask on the LAN interface, with many /24's connecting to it, is not exactly how it would actually function. (More on that in a moment.) 2) There are many use cases. This aggregation and routing of traffic for many networks/ subnets is the purpose of a router. Take for a simple example, a branch office location with VoIP telephones. At this site, there is a router connected via Dot1q trunking to a layer 2 access switch. There is, of course, a need for separation of the Voice and Data traffic, which can be achieved by using separate VLANS on the access switches. Each VLAN will have a separate subnet back on our router. Each subnet would terminate on its own "sub interface", a logical partitioning of the physical connection to the access switches. In this example, there are two subnets (one for data, and one for voice) living "behind" the router. 3) The performance benefit is that you don't need a different physical device to handle the routing for every single subnet in your network. You talk about the traffic ending up on the same router, and it does, but the traffic is still separated unless you specifically allow it to move between the subnets.