There are two different approaches to achieve this. Solution 1: The hierarchy is in the employees data Add a field to your employees table Each employee has an ID. This can be a unique identifier or an employee number that is given to each employee when she/he starts at the company. Each employee will have to report to another person (e.g. manager, team manager, ...) Here is some example data for such an EMPLOYEE table with a REPORTSTO column Example EMPLOYEE table: 

IndexOptimize Ola created his stored procedure according to the following Microsoft recommendations: 

Could this be the issue? Is there a version of SQL Serer out there that has an issue with more than 2048 bytes in the comment? 

As you can see in above example the transactions were written to the TLog and circled around in order to log further changes. TLog Full, Now What? Now if the TLog is full it has the following options: 

No. Other than observing the limitations of the MySQL specifications. Others before you have stored more data for less interesting cases. No. See above. 

(emphasis mine) Reference: msdb Database (Microsoft Docs) Conclusion If you backup the master database, then all the login information for the instance is safe. However, if you want to separately back up (as in: used to transfer logins to different instances, used to reset passwords) the SQL Logins of the instance, then you would have to apply a different solution. Individual SQL Server Login Backup Solutions Tool Reference List 

Linking database users and SQL Server logins There can be a link between database users and SQL logins, but there doesn't have to be. Let's give you a few examples 

If you can install or already have the MySQL Utilities, then you can use the mysqluserclone script. Reference: 5.28 mysqluserclone — Clone Existing User to Create New User The command is then a simple: 

Based on the quoted article MySQL should run both statements using the same execution plan and the supplied index. 

Try this query for your tablespace maximum chunk size tsfree.sql. This case of ORA-01658 concerns needing to make the tablespace bigger, which can be done by either extending your file, or adding another one. This is a good solution for ORA-01658 because repository tables need to be meticulously created keeping the extents of the table in mind. This information was taken from ORA-01658: unable to create INITIAL extent tips from the dba-oracle.com website. Disclaimer: I am in no way affiliated with the company. 

I am trying to deploy my 2012 SSIS project to the Integration Services catalog on the SSIS server (also 2012). I am getting the error below. I checked that there is plenty of space in SSISDB and msdb databases as well as on the disk. Any ideas what might be causing this? 

SQL Server 2014 SP2. As the titles says, we have converted one of our database tables to be in-memory. After we did this, the corresponding memory-optimized filegroup takes up 1GB on the disk, but on a larger server it's up to 4GB). I suspect it has to do with the number of CPUs. The table is EMPTY! The structure of the table is nothing special, something like this: 

OK, here is how I ended up addressing this. I basically wrote a script to compare row counts between tables on publisher and the distributor. One per-requisite is to have a linked server between the two servers. In my case it is called "distributor_ls" (since distributor is on the same server as the subscriber). First part of the script gather information about published databases into a temporary table called #tmp_replcationInfo. The credit for this first part of the script belongs here Second part of the script then uses this information to gather the table row counts into a temporary table called #result for those tables where row counts differ. The differences are then displayed. I know it may not be not super-reliable because it relies on row counts stored in sys.partitions table, but it does what I need. I hope somebody finds it useful. 

This seems a browser problem to me. When I render a reporting services report in IE11, the "Export", "Refresh" and "Export to Data Feed" buttons show up under each other taking up a lot of extra screen space. Does anybody know what could be causing this? I am running Reporting Services 2012: 

Initially everything seems to be ok and the results indicate that all of the tables match. Next I go over to the subscriber and manually delete a few rows from some of the tables. I manually verify that the row counts in my tables are now different between the publisher and the subscriber. Finally I run the sp_publication_validation procedure again and .... it says that everything is still OK. This is wrong! I also tried to return both rowcnt and checksum and it still doesn't detect the fact that there are differences between the publisher and subscriber. I appreciate any ideas. Thank you! 

Switch to the IP-Addresses tab and verify for each that ... a) Active is set to b) Enabled is set to c) IP address is your external IP address (or your internal address if you are unable to assign the external address to your SQL Server, because you only have one public IP.) d) TCP Dynamic Ports is set to (No value/empty) e) TCP port is set to f) The screen should look a bit like this, but with your IP address: 

If you follow the packages you will find addtional dependencies. The postgesql-9.3 package for example depends on: 

If you can supply answers to my questions, then it would be nice if you could provide a source reference. 

Reference: ORA-00018 maximum number of sessions exceeded According to the referenced article Oracle's sessions are limited to Because your processes/sessions are all used up you are receiving the ORA-00018 error message and because all processes/sessions are used up you are unable to fix it by logging in with SQLPlus. So your number 1. is an error in the application because of 2. (run out of sessions) and 3 is a result of 2. Shutting down the instance resolves the issue, by removing all open procesess/sessions. Possible Fix Check the processes parameter and change it to a higher value: 

Reference Reading / Similar Q&As You might want to check out my answer that I posted in response to the question: Will VSS backups break logchain? (dba.stackexchange.com) The explanation in my answer also links to the question How can I backup an SQL Server database using Windows Server Backup? (serverfault.com) which was also answered by myself. 

Explanation The SQL Server Windows Authenticated Login is linked to the database user , which has now been granted the database role and . When logs in to the SQL Server instance and connects to his database, he has the rights/permissions assigned to the database user . 

In this case the SID of the SQL Login () will match the SID of the database user (). Restore Behaviour When you restore a database from a source SQL Server the database users (Native SQL Server Logins and local Windows Accounts only) in the source database will have different SIDs than the SQL Server Logins on the target server. This is because the SID is unique for the source and target Native SQL Server Login or Local Windows Account. The SQL Server Logins that are based on Windows Domain Accounts will always have the same SID, because SQL Server will retrieve these values from Active Directory. When you restore the database from the source to the target SQL Server the SIDs of the Native SQL Server Logins will be mismatched, even though a user might be listed in the system management catalog of the SQL Server instance and in the system management catalog of the restored database. Solution To rectify this and allow you to navigate the "SQL Server Login | permissions" and/or the "Database Properties | Permissions" you can relink these orphaned database users to the SQL Server Login. Switch to your user database and query the orphaned database users: