I want to wake up and see the devices connected on my local network, using NMAP. So I execute this command : 

I have got a simple question, I am doing a broadcasted ping request on my local network, using a Mac with the latest Yosemite 10.10.4. So I , I get responses from a bunch of devices ( all on the local 10.11.204.XX network, with 255.255.255.0 mask). But if I look into the ARP table with , I can not see any of the devices that responded to my ping request. I only can see the broadcast IP and MAC address in the table (10.11.204.255 | ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff). However, if I ping individually each device, then they appear into the ARP table. Why is this behavior ? Then, if I leave the ping request looping, I will see after a while and only sometimes, some of the devices's IPs. This is really strange for me. 

I have the native VLAN on my trunk links set to VLAN 10 which is my management VLAN that spans the entire network. We have one WLC and Access Points connected on a trunk link set to native VLAN20 which is the wireless VLAN. I was wondering if I should have all network devices on the same Native VLAN to avoid any mismatch issues for cisco and other protocols that run untagged over the network? We have a lot of Apple and L2 devices on the network that would like to utilize protocols wired or wireless. I have configured mDNS on the WLC but still having issues with basic print jobs. I was planning on moving the WLC to the VLAN10 but I have read articles that recommend different ways of deploying the controller. 

Firts at all you need to put the sequences of commands on the exactly way as you will do it manually. Begin from nothing, connection entablishment, authentication and then the pass change steps. Test it If works, then create some kind of array were you can put all your IP address. Once you get that, write your new PASS into the code, create a repetitive structure, a loop, and put your code into it. Then execute it 

First of all, UDP and TCP are L4 terms, they exist on L4 on OSI model. If you have a L2 switch, no matter what you want to transmit, packet will be forwarded to it destination if the has a valid path, i guess a correct gateway or traffic to another pc in your LAN, no matter if they are UDP or TCP 

I had a consultant setup a basic network for a small office but I have some questions regarding the best way to implement this. We are using a Cisco 1921 router connected to a Catalyst 3750 as the main switch. Two more Catalyst 3750's branch off from the main switch for different suites. VLAN's are trunked through to the main 3750 where the gateways for each vlan/subnet reside (192.168.x.1). The router is performing NAT with the public IP on the outside interface connected to the ISP modem and a private IP on the inside interface facing the switched network. The things I am wondering about: 

So, NMAP finds perfectly devices. But lets say device A is found, if I disconnect A from the network (airplane mode), and execute the exact same NMAP command : NMAP will continue to find A. If I keep executing the command, A will be found as online ("Host is up (0.0047s latency).") during some time, and after 2/3 minutes it will not be found anymore by NMAP. And what is really strange is that I have information about latency overtime even when I have manually disconnected A. It appears that there is somewhere a timeout, maybe the arp-timeout ? And one thing I dont understand, even if there is a timeout why does NMAP gives me a latency when A is physically disconnected ? Thank you. 

Once you tried that, all your counters will reset to 0, and when the interface goes UP, you will seeing really what is happening 

The books shows the typical case of a printer connected with an serial-paralel-usb cable to a host. Then the host will share "his printer", and the equipment on network will be able to print once it will connected to the host, and search for "Devices shared" on the target host. Newer printers with hign performance can bring a NIC built-in. In this cases, you can configure an IP address and convert it into a terminal device. Then, all the equipments that can conmunicate with him, and will be able to print without problem. 

I recently sniffed with Tcpdump a packet "". I would like to reproduce this message, and to send an ARP request from my laptop to any IP I would decide. How can I do this ? I would be interested as well in forcing refreshing the whole ARP table. I know that deleting the table will renew it but only laptop this operation is really slow and it can take up to 1/2/5 minutes to rebuild the complete ARP table. Is there a way to force rebuilding the table, by sending a broadcasted ARP request ? I am using a Mac with the latest OS Yosemite 10.10.4 Thank you. 

Can anyone help verify my ACL and correct my rule if necessary? Do I need an outbound ACL to open up the port as well since this is for a hosted VoIP PBX? Is Nmap not detecting the open port because I am not the specific host for the ACL? I tried some other ports that are not specific to a public IP and Nmap also shows as closed. Do my L3 switches behind the router also need an ACL to open ports if they are between the PC and the router? 

I have the current rules in an attempt to open port 5060 and 10000-20000 for my VoIP provider. We are on a Cisco 1921 router. This ACL is applied to the WAN port on the router facing the ISP. Nmap port scan shows these ports as closed.