Open regedit as an administrator. Check all the subkeys of the registry key below (they will be long and resemble this, "{9B5A7831-1D50-4353-9583-50C4245EF413}"): 

This is a good start, but first, you do not mention what you plan on using as backup software. Chances are it is not technically a clone, but using an imaging software is one good way to guarantee that you would get back up and running in a hurry if your main drive failed. Most imaging software will allow you to do incrementals (all changes since the last backup), or differential backups (all changes since the last full), but since it is all local, even full backups from one drive to another will be pretty speedy. The only part that I am not thrilled about is that you have nothing going off-site, meaning your most important documents. I have had a client's office burn to the ground. We will hope that never happens to you, but I would consider adding a service like Carbonite to make sure your files are safe. You could also run an ocassional image to an external drive and store it off-site. 

FINALLY, I understand the question, but unfortunately, there is no solution using most firewalls/routers, and doubtful there are any home models. The issue at hand is Network Address Translation, and there is a specific name for this problem, but I just can't remember right now: Basically, what it means, is that internally, you have to access resources by the internal IP address. 

I don't know if you have tried uninstalling and re-installing it, but use the Flash Uninstaller and follow the directions in the link. Then reinstall it and give it a shot. 

Generally, you can do with a multi-purpose router...one that has Wireless and a switch combined. Then you can connect the router to the ADSL, and any computers, or other devices, can be connected physically to the switch, or wirelessly to the Wireless. Cat5e or Cat6 cables will probably both do you fine for any wired connections, but if you are going to go through the trouble of putting them in the walls, use Cat6. You won't want to do it twice. 

I am going to assume you are on a Microsoft domain: If so, the problem is that the DNS must be pointed to an internal Microsoft DNS server (you are not resolving internally). Set up Microsoft DNS, in the properties, set the forwarders to your ISP's DNS, and then set your DHCP to give out the new DNS server. Then do and ipconfig /renew to get the clients the proper DNS server. 

My first thought is that you are always going to have risk with two obviously-old disks. There is also a mathematical increase in failure when you go from one to two disks, and when you say "would like to extend another 40G", I think spanning disks. If you mean combining them into one partition, I really would not do that due to the age of the disks since if on fails, you are suddenly in a situation where data recovery requires better tools since all the data is not just on one drive. It could be harder for you to recover. Normally I would not think twice about having two disks, but yours are old, so be careful how you do it, and make sure you have any critical data backed up. 

None that I know of. Your father may have been the one to set the password, and if so, if you change it, even by resetting it, he is going to know. 

That you said other protocols continue to function leads me to believe that you browser is at fault. Yes, disabling the network adapter will clear it, so it looks like it is related, but it probably is your specific browser having a connection issue. Try using a different browser temporarily, and go to some other sites, which you might not go to normally (try msnbc.com and usatoday.com since they are mainstream...click around for 10-20 minutes). See if it still happens. If the answer is no, then you can see what you can do to repair your browser. Another thing that comes to mind is that you should run a few scanners, and make sure you are not infected: Malwarebytes, Superantispyware, and Hitman Pro are my favorites. 

I am with soandos's comment. You are not going to be able to recover it from within the file. Your only chance is if you have some software, like File Scavenger 3.0, that can find a deleted/overwritten copy of the ghost image file on the disk. Restore that, and you may have a chance...but probably a slim one. In the meantime, stop using the disk if possible, because you are likely to overwrite critical data, necessary to even try what I suggested. 

I have encountered this before: Use regedit.exe and search for all “LidBehavior” entries. Change the value from 11 to 10 Reboot. 

Try hitting F8 (a few times) right before, and as Windows starts. It should bring you to the screen in the screenshot. Then choose "Last Known Good Configuration", pick your profile (probably only one), and see if that saves you. Note: in the screenshot, it is picking a different option, arrow down until you get to the right one. 

I can't be sure as I do not have an HP, but the same thing happens to me on my Lenovo, and it is due to the Network Profile Switching application (For Lenovo, it is called "Access Connections", I tried to find the name for yours, but it was not clear from my searches). Many laptop makers provide their own software to keep track of different network profiles as the user goes from place to place. In some, he may wish to use on the wireless using DHCP, in others, maybe a static IP for the LAN adapter. Some offer the ability also turn on/off features, such as printers. The point is so the user does not have to configure his network in detail with each location change, but it can be handled with a simple click or two when he moves. My application hides adapters, which are not in use, so maybe yours does also. Two things you did not mention doing were updating your LAN adapter's driver, and actually plugging it in so see if it showed up then (check the profile if you do have the software I mentioned). I hope it is what I think it is, but if not, you could have a bad adapter as you mentioned. 

You can use devcon to do that (you will need to determine your hardware ID, probably here: $URL$ If you need a 64-bit version, you can get it in the Windows Driver Kit: $URL$ $URL$ (for some usage issues). 

It will not do it real time, but why not just use Windows' search function by date, then sort the results by size? This will not just show files created, but all files, but I suspect that with you losing 6GB/day, that won't matter, and the answer will stick out like a sore thumb. 

I am not sure exactly what you are seeing, but you can try going into the Advanced system settings>Advanced>Visual Effects, and click "Adjust for best performance" just to test. Then if that works, add back only the settings you want. You can see my favorite settings, but I think that you also might need to uncheck "Use visual styles on windows and buttons". 

There is only one way I know to do that, and it would be with a removable hardware RAID card (or possibly if you could replicate the software RAID settings, but this is doubtful imo). Because the data necessary to form the RAID volume is stored on the card, it can be made portable from system to system. All that said, I cannot discourage you enough from doing this. You would have to open your system, more the card and the drives, which is a hassle, and increases your chances of hardware failures every time you move it. Above all, experience makes me really suspect that something could go wrong and put your data at risk. A better option is to just buy an external HDD with 2TB on it. It is cheaper than the RAID card, easier to move from system to system, and your data is probably safer. 

I choose a number for the range that was very high, so it would not interfere with any ones you may already have. Use 10000 and 10001. Just edit the IP addresses in the example. Then create the following batch file to run that registry script in the C:\Windows\system32 directory (or again, the netlogon share) and name it AddIPLocalIntranet.bat 

You should just add that site as a Local Intranet site on the security tab (click Advanced and add it explicitly), and in your proxy settings, check "Bypass proxy server for local addresses" 

It is pretty clear that something it needs is not starting, so look at this screen shot of the items that it is dependent on, and make sure they are started, and set to automatic. If not one will not start, post back about that service, because that is the real problem, not the firewall. 

Set the "Audit File System Policy" to configure both Success and Failure events. Do a at an elevated command prompt. Next go to the folder(s) you want to audit, and go to and add whoever you want to audit. If you do this at the root of the drive, it will inherit all the way down unless inheritance has previously been blocked. After you hit Add and select them, you will be presented with a box to select what you want to audit. Click Full control for both Success and Failure. 

Have you tried putting the one stick you are currently not using in? If it does not work then, you probably have a bad stick. You should also check what you computer should take. Download System Information For Windows here and run it: $URL$ Check what it says against your memory configuration, and check that in your BIOS' memory settings. 

I am not really sure what you mean by it doesn't work. You would need to explain in much greater detail exactly what you want it to do, what it IS doing, and how you set up the image. I would suggest that you look at this MSDN page, and the read all links in that document, but especially to these documents: "Step-by-Step: Multilingual Image Creation in Windows 7" "Understanding Multilingual Deployments" $URL$ $URL$ 

Although Abraxas' answer technically does it (I was going to give that as one of my answers too), I don't sense that is what you are really looking for. Normally I would try to summarize this link, but it is fairly involved, so I will just post it. In the end, he actually lets you download the complete script, which should give you the functionality the way I believe you intended. $URL$ (see the download on the last line of the actual article, but before the comments) 

I am not a lawyer, but I suspect that despite their terms, this may fall under fair use. To be sure, why don't you call them and ask permission. I suspect they may give it considering every site has paid for full usage. 

Using more than 50% of the drive. To some degree, being fragmented (most drives are so fast now, that this is noticeable now. Not enough memory, causing a lot of virtual memory swapping. Viruses causing drive access. 

I also find it nearly impossible that you would not have been able to find the memory. I would have run "System Information for Windows" to find out what type of memory it could take: $URL$ and then seen if I could have found it on eBay. If you really could not, you probably could have started a new install with the original HDD installed. The install would have found the old installation location, and you could have "upgraded it", which would overwrite any hardware information, but leave all the other aspects, like installed programs and settings, intact. The only caveat is that you would need to be at least at the revision of Vista that was currently installed. So if you started out with Vista, no service pack, and had only that disk, but now you were on Vista SP2, you would need a Vista install disk with SP2 incorporated. That is called slipstreaming: $URL$ 

You doubled your speed since the last question, but it still sounds like you are not connecting at Gigabit speed. Going from 100 megabits to 200 megabits, the only thing I can think of that would produce that type of speed increase, but not more, is that you have Category 5 wires. You should have at least Category 5e, or Category 6. Can you confirm by looking at the wires they are Category 5e or greater? If is says Cat5, officially that runs at 100 megabits, but I have seen it run faster, but that is still not good enough. Just a hunch. 

The answer is generally, no, but some of the sub-folders maybe. Which sub-folders have the most data, and give me an idea of what it looks like. 

It sounds like you had/have some file corruption. I would try the following from an elevated command prompts where necessary: 

First, DON'T BOOT TO IT AGAIN, make it a secondary drive. Second, if you can, put only that drive and another empty drive into the computer, and see if you can image it. That is the best way to do it. If you cannot do that, still make it a secondary drive (like a D drive) to the good, bootable one in your system or another system, and then copy the data. Every time you boot into it, you risk never having another shot at that data, since booting it is a lot more access intensive than just accessing it as a secondary drive. If your system already can't see it, it is probably too late due to those extra boots unless you hire professional recovery experts.