Really if you want to know what pipes do and the difference between > and |, then go to a directory with a lot of files, and from a terminal vs (or doing that from Windows with DIR and DIR | MORE) If you used > more you'll see it creates a file called 'more' rather than sending the output of ls to the 'more' command. So if somebody did >more it'd probably a mistake, one wouldn't do >more you'd do >file1. More is a well known command. The < like the > is also for linking a command and a file, rather than a command to a command. But while > sends the output of a command to a file, the < sends a file as input to a command. I rarely use < as I usually use cat file1 | to send the output of a file to a command. $ grep a < file1 abc $ cat file1 | grep a abc grep with 2 parameters is of the form grep pattern file. grep with one parameter is grep pattern. And you can send it the file by piping the contents of the file to it, or by using <. If using <, you write the command name first, then the filename after so command < file. If using | to pipe the contents of a file, you use cat file1 | command. Also many commands take a file as input anyway so grep a file1 will work, just as cat file1 | grep a, and grep a < file1. I was doing pipes (|) and > on DOS even 15 years ago. To summarize how | differs from < and > - The pipe sits between 2 commands The < and > sit between a command and a file. The > is output to a file. The < is input from a file. 

that is a complete nonsense You can call the device a router/switch/modem, and when it acts as a router it's routing, when it acts as a switch it's switching, and when it acts as a modem it's acting as a modem(modeming is not a word, unfortunately, though you could invent it). And you basically ask that for the on-link case, PC1 PC2 same subnet, does the routing table get checked. (Also bear in mind that the routing table you showed is that on PC1, not on the router. Also, PC1 isn't what most would consider to be a router, since it doesn't have data coming in one interface and out another). The packet will hit the switch part of the device first. The routing table on your router won't have PC2's IP address. The 'packet' from PC1 will first hit the switch, and then get redirected to PC2, and not hit the router. PC1 put PC2's MAC address in there, because PC1 checked whether PC2 was on te same subnet and since it was it put PC2's MAC in the 'packet'(or one might say, frame). If PC2 had not been on the same subnet then it would have put the router's MAC address in the 'packet'(Where I use the term packet in quotes, I mean the general sense, rather than the OSI ISO sense, so, I mean whatever field regardless of 'layer'). I think the case where it'd hit the router, would be, from PC1 to the internet or vice versa, or, consider a router with multiple interfaces, not just the two that a 'home/SOHO' one has, then if you sent a packet from one directly connected subnet to another, or a packet came from the internet to a directly connected subnet, then the packet would go past the switch, to the router, to e.g. a switch, then to the computer. But for PC1 to PC2, the routing table won't be used. The router part of the device won't be used. You write 

Then it shows you might have some file there. Then you'd have to know how to analyze these things or find somewhere where they read memory dumps Personally, the crashes i've had have usually been BSODs and they normally have all the info I need there.. but maybe a memory dump is useful for you if you're not getting much info 'cos you get no BSOD, just a freeze. If you find you can't see a memory dump file, then i'm not sure why, but maybe you could look into that. 

I haven't used VBA in Ms Outlook or much of VBA at all but if there is a line length limit, you could define separate variables and concatenate them e.g. a="asdf" b="qwert" c= a & vbNewLine & b So, you know how to concatenate strings, as you already have, but you could just also, use separate variables 

if you can login via user/pass you just need to generate a key and copy it over try running ssh-keygen where your ssh client is, to generate a key, it will make id_rsa and id_rsa.pub in your home directory where your ssh client is. ssh-copy-id user@host to copy the key to the ssh server. You will be prompted to login with a user/pass and then the key will have been copied over and you can log in automatically via key. It will append your public key to authorized_keys file on the ssh server Your ssh_config file and sshd_config file shouldn't need any amended to do that. 

it can be a fault on the connector the hard drive is plugged into. Which is a motherboard fault.. you could try plugging the hard drive into another connector. Windows version has nothing to do with this. you could try a new hard drive. (I had a situation like that with a computer, new hard drive helped for a bit but then same problem - +that solution didn't last long. proving not the hard drive. I then tried moving the hard drive to another connector, then was fine for maybe even a year, but then same thing happened with that other connector. Was ultimately a motherboard fault of course.. and it just delayed the problem.. ultimate solution was new motherboard) Another temporary fix with that thing was booting to recovery consule and doing those 3.. FIXMBR, FIXBOOT, BOOTCFG /rebuild. Was probably FIXMBR that did the temp fix. though didn't go to what caused the corruption. There are viruses that can write to the boot record, so in theory it could be that., and resetting the MBR could help.. obviously with any movement of the hard drive to another connector(and that may indeed fix it for a good time or "permanently"), you obviously may have to change a setting in the BIOS to get it to boot from that one. (i'm not sayin you haven't.. just saying if you will move the hard drive to another connector as a solution, then, bear that in mind) added-Try changing to another controller/ mbrd hdd connector..and then doing a repair installation. (to fix any corruption of the windows installation) also, maybe it may help to do fixmbr fixboot .. from recovery console prior to repair installation. You can try skipping the repair installation if you want to save time. The method is this 

I looked in device manager and nothing came up in "other devices". Which versions of windows give an icon like that? And does anybody else have nothing come up in "other devices", when a device isn't recognized? I don't know if it came up the first time in "other devices", I doubt it 'cos it should be either there every time if at all. After that first time, I tried taking the usb device out and in and out and in, I got no message(which would be normal), but I got nothing in device manager. I know in xp sp3 and I think in sp2, if it wasn't recognized, it'd have been a slightly different icon, a similar message, and it would come up in "other devices" while it was in. I may get to have a look at it again. But i'd like to know if anybody else has seen those symptoms? And whether it's normal in XP Home? Or perhaps it's an SP thing. maybe SP1 or pre? This isn't a question of how to solve it. It's a question of whether others have seen this happen. Whether this is normal for certain editions of xp, when a device isn't recognized, and if so what editions. 

It may be missing the drivers for motherboard wired and wireless! You could check the Sony VAIO site for them and (re)install them. It can be a driver issue if both those drivers weren't installed. You could test a USB Wireless adaptor you know works(install the driver for that obviously as you'd know), and if it works, that just suggests even more, that it is a motherboard or internal to the laptop driver issue affecting the built in wired and wireless. The issue possibly being that they're simply not installed. That can happen if windows was reinstalled and on reinstall, the wired and wireless ethernet drivers weren't then installed. 

Apparently it's tricky to install Windows on a USB Hard Drive Here is an article from 2008 on it $URL$ But you can get around that by using an image. $URL$ I'd add, that you can use Macrium Reflect, to create and restore images, it is freeware, 

I can't be absolutely certain but i'm pretty sure , like 99% sure, the original text is overwritten and gone. If you tried an undelete program I think it won't get it because the bytes are overwritten. Undelete programs aren't known for getting previous revisions of a file! If it did delete a pointer to old data and store new data elsewhere then they'd be known for getting previous revisions of a file! Or people would undelete a file and have to choose what version, or would get a version of a file from an earlier save, which one never hears of. 

They won't affect each other obviously. You could use FoxyProxy to assign a specific proxy for a specific site. Or you could use elite proxy switcher to switch universally. Use $URL$ to make sure you are browsing with that proxy 

You get the same issue with Windows 7 as well. You have to do Start, type cmd, (to search it out), then don't hit ENTER yet, and when the cmd prompt appears in the start menu, right click it, do runas administrator 

But you want to allow outgoing, according to your question. You can consult that webpage again Here is an example to allow outgoing. 

Yesterday, I installed java from here. I set firefox click to play. about:config click to play - true. I restarted(just in case). That same day I tried to go to this verify page on java.com FF was giving me a green tick. I figure/figured it had to run a java applet to verify, and so click to play wasn't working. Chrome for example, with click to play, won't get as far as a green tick. So it looks like FF's click to play isn't functioning there. Though Chrome is also a bit odd, because regardless of whether click to play is set or not, it temporarily blocks it and a button comes up near the address bar where I can run it So I can't quite tell what effect click to play has on that page. That was yesterday. I tried now today. Chrome behaves as it did but from FireFox I get Firefox --> Which looks like it blocked it on the basis of its own criteria of it being unsafe. Rather than just blocking it because I told it to function with 'click to play' thus to block any plugin's 'pluglett'(if I may call it that!) unless I click. So, I don't see the explanation for either behaviour. It's possible my memory has failed me, because i'm talking about what happened yesterday, which I can't entirely repeat today. Also, i'd guess that Chrome, never runs java applets automatically even when told to run them automatically, you have to click run in the bar at the top, and then after that if the first time, it prompts again if you want to run it and you have to click run, so an inefficient form of click to play is applied specially for java applets. Whereas Chrome's click to play being on or off, will have an effect on adobe flash 'pluglets'. Firefox though is more strange. It seems to have blocked the applet on the basis of its content. Or perhaps, blocked the plugin on the basis of the plugin. I'm not worried about the applet being insecure.. as it's from java.com My issue is more with click to play performing and how to see when it is performing. It seems how click to play handles java, is a bit funny. In fact I just set click to play to true, in FF, and restarted just in case, and it is still displaying youtube's adobe flash videos. I think I can see it is functioning in Chrome, and just doesn't operate in regard to java applets, as java applets are blocked unless permission is given, even without click to play. But in FF I just can't see it functioning at all, not even with youtube videos. 

Where is the Available MBytes option in Windows 7 perfmon, that is in Win XP perfmon? In Windows 7 perfmon I see this, screenshot below, but I cannot find an "Available MBytes" option, and I see no Memory category. Added Ass you can see below, there is no memory category 

Data is stored in BITs (Binary digits). 1 binary digit can have one of 2 values, 0 or 1. 2 values is 2^1 2 bits (bit 0 and bit 1) can hold 4 values 00 01 10 11 . twice what one bit can hold. 3 bits can hold twice what 2 bits can.. Because when the third bit is 0, the remaining 2 have 4 values, and when the third bit is 1, the remaining 2 bits have 4 values. So, for 3 bits we get 8 values. 2^3=8 2^number of bits = number of values. It's not just bits that work by that pattern. of base^n Decimal digits, how many decimal numbers do you get for 3 decimal digits? 10^3=1000 0 up to 999 1-999 are 999 values. and 0 is another value. That's 1000 values. 0-999. 'cos remember, how many numbers between 1 and 10(inclusive)? 10. How many values between 0 and 10 (inclusive), well, there'd be 11 ! 2 bits hold 4 values.. representing the numbers 0 to 3. Just like 2 decimal digits hold 100 values 0..99 

I haven't tested this, and am not familiar with ubuntu's ufw but it's a simple interface to iptables and I get the idea looking at ufw commands. And I see you want to change the rule for packets coming in, from a whitelist to a blacklist. Try Use to check your changes are being made.. more rules listed here $URL$ and $URL$ and I suppose you can say (though that rule doesn't seem to specify direction) 

Have you tried changing your Router? If you haven't then the Router seems the most obvious suspect, and the most obvious thing to try is changing it. If you moved house and you have the problem on many computers, as you say, that helps to rule out a lot. 

It's normal to have multiple installed. And they're not huge.. recent years are about 20MB. More give more compatibility. ctrl panel..programs and features, shows what ones you have installed. cmder is working now so I installed the right one(s) for it. 

Run those. See if things function OK.. then maybe if you want to set all the environment variables permanently, presumably when it's unnecessary to (since it'd almost never be necessary). Then you could change from the set version of the for, to the setx version. I'm not going to write a bat file to do that because it's not well tested, but that's everything that'd need to be in any batch files. Put it together at your own risk, and I suggest when you do, you test it well, like on a virtual machine maybe. 

deals with individual characters, it doesn't really deal with strings, though there is overlap. you can replace multiple occurrences of a single character, with one occurrence( Replacing with ), an option it calls 'shrink' but you'd want the other way. In theory one could say that involves an individual character just as much, nevertheless, tr cannot do that, it has no option to give it a character and state how many times it should appear. It has that shrink character option but not a repeat character option. You can use sed, you may find you have to use single quotes rather than double quotes 

following on from what guy said a browser doesn't listen on ports in use(I don't think any client or server can, by definition, otherwise the OS wouldn't know what process, specifically what particular connection- to send the packet to). the browser finds a port not in use. $URL$ not under 1024 and in fact not under 49152! so very high numbered ports. that ephemeral port range 49152–65535 if you knew basic use of netstat it'd make you more familiar with things. Try from a cmd prompt, netstat -aon or netstat -n and look at the output. here's an example from netstat -n you see two columns of IPs, one local, one remote (so it won't show you whether a connection is incoming or outgoing).. an ip that relates to your computer is shown on the left hand side. look on the right hand side see the lines where the right hand side have :80 only one row in this case but typically many, now see the port on the left hand side chosen by the browser e.g. 50714