I'm trying to setup my Freenas server with Active Directory, it's connected fine and the following works: 

We have two dedicated servers across two different sites. They host hyper v virtual machines for email hosting etc. I'd like to have hyper v do replication between them and so I have a copy elsewhere, if something goes wrong re-route traffic to the other server (that side of it, i.e. the ip re route is all setup) However, the problem is how do I get the active directories talking to each other. Site to site vpn is out of the question I belive as I cannot add hardware either side to do the connection. I'm not sure software VPN will suffice here? The setup: Hypervisor 01 - Windows server datacentre 2012 

You can then use this wizard to automatically split your scope into two and create it on the other DHCP server. 

To be fair, if it's a static container and you're building it on location, then the challenges are pretty much the same as any other data centre. E.g. 

Surely the answer is reasonably obvious. If you have (and configure) 4x 1Gb NIC's then you have the potential to attain 4 Gigabits Per Second of data throughput if all 4 IP addresses are hit hard. If you configure all 4x IP's on one interface, then you can only ever get 1Gbps shared between them all. There's nothing inherently wrong with having multiple IP's on one NIC, but if you can spread them across multiple physical interfaces, then there's absolutely no reason not to. 

The hypervisors have 5 VMs in the cluster basically running as a RDS setup. The setup is pretty new. There are 4 1GB network cards in each hypervisor using nic teaming to make one 4GB connection for the VM usage / iscsi hosting of the VMS. In the past week both servers at one time or another have dropped out of the cluster and gone offline, the cluster resumes on the other server but I would really like to know why it's going offline. What happens is it just doesn't seem to be able to connect to the network in any way, the network settings are there but it cant' ping anything (internal or external), it can't tracert, can't see any other device on the network. I've tried disabling and re-enabling the nic team and the virtual Ethernet device but it doesn't come back online, the only way I can get the network restarted is to reboot the server. But i can't for the life of me work out why it's happening 

A very crude way to do this would be to save the running configuration, make the change and then set the router to reboot.* Many engineers use this method when working remotely to ensure that they can get back to the box is they accidentally break the way they're connected. Use the following command to set a reboot in 5 minutes (I don't know what the max is, but it's always in minutes). And then use the second command to subsequently cancel it when you're happy. 

DHCP works using broadcasts which will travel between collision domains (Layer 2, switches) but not broadcast domains (Subnets, routers). You can, however configure ip forwarders / ip helpers on the routers to do this. Even better, the DHCP sever will know which subnet the request originated from, meaning a single server can server for multiple subnets. 

I'm upgrading our network from Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010 and it's going swimmingly. Well it was, I've moved some users to the 2010 box with blackberries (iphones working fine) and I can't get it working with BIS (blackberry internet services) Whatever settings I try I get a 

But when I setup a ZFS Dataset and try and setup the permissions to be one of our local active directory groups, no AD groups or users are in the dropdowns. On top of this I seem to be getting this spammed a lot in the messages so I assume they might be linked: 

All the mailboxes have been moved from Development01 to Exchange01 and are receiving emails and OWA works fine and iphone etc can all connect. However Outlook can no longer connect theres no errors just says that the exchange server is not online. I tried deleting the mailbox and re-adding it and it doesn't resolve the mailbox user / name with Exchange01 as the server name. However weirdly if i set the server to resolve as Development01 it resolves the mailbox name and then changes it to say Exchange01, but then still says exchange server is offline. I've tried so many forum posts / things like checking if encrypted connections to exchange. I've also tried using http to connect to exchange and no luck. Any help or tips really will be appreciated as I've got 30 users who can't connect to exchange and arent too happy! EDIT: I've added a video of what happens when you try to connect $URL$ Tom 

Use a DNS server. Make it authorative for myapp.dev, set it to forward all other requests and then make it the primary DNS server for your network. 

Firstly, your DC's ARE network time servers by default, so you don't need to 'enable' that as a feature or anything. All you're trying to do is synchronise it with an external time server. To do that, type the following in a command prompt: 

You could probably script this in either Powershell or Batch and then run a scheduled task every 5 minutes to check and then reboot if possible. Try the command "quser". But you'll need to test this etc. So, with that said, you have 5 users. Just tell or ask them - you're far more likely to bug them by suddenly bouncing the server as they're about to log on, or if they've just logged off for a minute. Also, make sure you check for disconnected sessions and not just active users 

I'm setting up a new citrix box and trying to set a 20gb area to hold ISOs for the VMS. I'm trying to setup a new lvm area to hold it, but i'm getting an 

Is this the correct version of vmware to run? The choice is pretty overwhelming to say the least! Tom 

error. I'm using $URL$ url, which works fine and the authentication settings I'm trying (username / password) work fine in owa. Close to the point of pulling my hair out on this issue, is there a way to find out what it's failing on? Have I missed something very simple? Tom 

Want to set it up using windows failover clustering. However my question is I'm going to have 6 VMs running in the cluster and will be splitting loads evenly between the two. Am I right in thinking each VM will need it's own iscsi LUN on the network storage. If they're all on the same LUN they wont be able to move VMs around one at a time?