What does show? Once you get the kernel names you can just Just make sure you do not purge your current kernel. The results can be unexpected. 

This has happened to me in the past. It Have you tried Different ports on the switch and a different Ethernet Cable. I've seen where a bad cable will give you link but not show you have a good enough connection to the pins to keep the signal of proper quality for higher then 10/Half. 

Time servers take a couple of samples to make sure they are reading the upstream servers properly and to set their own stratum correctly. It sometimes takes a while. Usually less then 10 minutes. When you get an error like that you should first check the stratum your NTP server is reporting. There is a limit on how low windows will go to set its time from a NTP server, but I dont recall off the top of my head. 

Official Support for the Debian distribution is not provided by Dell. However I have been running Dell Servers with various Debian versions for the past several years. They have been very good about supporting the Hardware. 

Depending on how you setup your Postfix you may be able to use an alias to forward all mail. edit Also you can setup a redirect that will do it for you easily. In /etc/postfix/main.cf add this: 

I use Bacula, its free and open and works on Windows and Linux, and has extensive documentation on the linux and windows ports. As for Duplicati, I have never used it so I cant really tell you what do on that, but you that is an alternative. 

It sounds like there is some security that your system administrator setup. I would talk to your IT/System Administrators before you go trying to bypass the security they have put into place. There are a number of different setups that could be "blocking" you. 

It sounds like you system is doing what is called thrashing. What that means is your system is swapping pages in and out of memory for in use systems. That includes SSH. You actually have a couple of options. The first option is of course to reboot the server, but it sounds like that is not much of an option for you because it's not local to you. If it's at a datacenter then you may be able to get them to walk up to it and reboot it. You have to check with your DataCenter. Second option is also pretty simple. Your SSH session just hangs waiting for some stuff to be swapped out so it can allocate a tty for you. I have had this happen to me before, and you just have to wait for it to respond, it can take quite a while. Once you have a cli then you can kill or reboot the server. The reason you can PING the server is actually pretty simple, the kernel's IP stack (IIRC) does not get swapped out that is why ICMP is able to respond. A third option would require some setup before hand so I dont think it's a real option for you right now. You can setup a modem to allow you to dial in to a number and get a serial console. On the same note you can use IPMI Serial over LAN (SOL) to get a serial console. Also IPMI can allow you to reboot the server. Once again it sounds like those are not setup for you. 

The issue is displayed in your netstat output. Mysql is bound to the loopback address. Check your /etc/mysql/my.cnf (if you are running Debian, or ubuntu) and change the bind-address from bind-address = 127.0.0.1 to bind-address = 10.10.10.99 Also I would make sure you have proper security and firewall rules setup to protect your mysql server. 

I have been using Raid1 on linux with write's way over 15M/S. Those log messages are indicative of either a hardware issue with the drive, a bad Sata cable, or a bad connection on the motherboard. Does SMART reporting show any errors with the drive. I would check that and the SATA cable. Easy cheap solutions if it is a hard drive issue. 

I would consult the vendors website for this type of question. It appears to have an active and well documented @ $URL$ Redmine 2.1.2. 

Sounds like webgardens (one app pool spawning additional processes). I'd suggest trying to not use web gardens if they are being used. Additionally, if you use SCOM 2012 sp1, I'd suggest deploying APM (application performance monitor) and push a management pack to monitor what's going on. APM doesn't require any code changes and can get down to the function level. The only other option is to use IIS Debug Diag to $URL$ 

The IUSR account is a new account with w2k8. By default that is the user account for anonymous. I recommend setting the anonymous to inherit from application pool identity. Then you can grant permissions on the ApplicationPoolIdentity I_AppPoolName account $URL$ Either way is fine depending on your needs. 

I looked on the vendors website. $URL$ Are you hosting within your own windows service? I found on their workarounds page on regarding using certificates. $URL$ 

The only other options I can think of 1) create a local user with the same user name and password on each machine 2) Grant permissions on the folder (first try granting the user, if that doesn't work, try users or authenticated users). The right way is to have a trust like it's mentioned although is more involved. 

Might seem like a basic question, but is ASP.NET installed? Do basic ASP.NET pages work, what you are describing doesn't seem like an IIS issue as much as configuration. 

How are you requesting the certificate? Using Inet Mgr or typing MMC, adding certificates applet, then requesting the CSR? 

by default in IIS 7.5, the applicationpoolidentity (aka i_AppPoolName) is used. I would NOT grant write perms and only grant on the folder(s) needed to support your app. Network service was the default account in IIS 6 and wasn't the best account. MS made a change in 7.x. 'note the default app pool name should be changed to whatever you have. ICACLS C:\inetpub\wwwroot /grant "IIS AppPool\DefaultAppPool":(M) You can do this from the GUI in r2/iis 7.5 The other option is to grant the IIS_IUSRS group modify, the app pool command line above is the most secure. I just wouldn't grant modify on all folders. Personally, I use the IIS_IUSRS perms architecture as my servers are not shared hosting servers. 

This can't be controlled as far as I know. First time i've seen this type of question. There is a range of ports Windows uses for dynamic allocation, which is the range you are seeing. You can control dynamic ports but it requires having control of both the client and server to limit the number of dynamic ports. For an internet facing site, this is not fesible. 

The permissions are based on the IUSR (anonymous by default) or the application pool identity. The best tool to help determine if there are permission issues is using process monitor by sysinternals. Auditing will tell you right away if there are denies. If so, adjust folder security to meet your requirements. $URL$ 

If you know the sub domains, then I'd have a different site (call it site 2) pointing to app1, put the certain domains as host-headers with the same ip address as the other unknown on a separate site that has ip address bindings (call it site 1). When you want to update code for site 2, update the folder location to app2 on site2 with the host-headers. If you have multiple servers, I would take one out of load, update to your needs, put in load and continue with other boxes. Hope that helps. 

ARR is your answer here. Look for articles by Scott Forsyth on handling ARR. He has a IT pro series with some covering ARR. $URL$ 

Are these local accounts or domain accounts? If these are local accounts, they can't be moved. Are these IIS or windows users? You can review the applicationHost.config (make a backup copy first) and see what configuration is stored in there. I asked a question about moving IIS manager users to another machine, a MS team member mentioned this. We need a bit more information. As far as moving the configuration over. You could try copying the sites configuration specific to the FTP site by copying and pasting the particular configuration. This involves the XML so it's not very straight forward, but is an option. $URL$