You can dump the schema of an existing database using with the option and then use this to create new databases using a simple script that creates each database and then populates it from the output of mysqldump. 

I know you already got recaptcha working, but I thought I'd add the link to the recaptcha documentation for phpBB anyway, in case anyone else finds this question in future: $URL$ Would be nice if more people used this, rather than letting their phpBB fill up with spam. Ditto for blogs... 

Sounds like the DHCP server for the VPN is setting this. Check with your IT department, or turn off DHCP for your VPN. If you think of doing that, check with your IT department too - you might mess things up for other people if you choose a static IP address that is in use or in the DHCP pool. 

Likewise Open worked for me - pretty easy to install, and doesn't require any changes to AD. The Free version gives you login functionality. If you pay for the Enterprise version you get Group Policy and a whole host of other things. 

Whatever list system you use, there will be a bulk subscribe function which allows you to shove in a bunch of email addresses. If it is a really large list with commercial value, you might also look at a professional mailing list service like MailChimp. They are free for up to 2000 subscribers, so I'd consider looking at that option anyway. 

Short of an alternative method of connecting, such as that suggested by ewwhite, I think your method is fine. It is simple, and you can give yourself the amount of time you feel necessary. Note - I don't think you should need to reboot a server to verify your changes - restart appropriate services instead if absolutely necessary. A reboot isn't necessary to "lock in" changes - it is just one option that might achieve this. I would add that you probably shouldn't be experimenting with changes directly on a production system. Use your scheduled reboot as a precaution, but only when applying changes you are certain will work. Cancel the scheduled reboot when your changes worked. 

It can be quite hard to tell because a lot of models marketed as a switch will have routing functions included, and you could also have cases where routers are being used like switches - i.e. they aren't routing traffic. So even if you can figure out the capability of a device, you really want to know its function in your network. You might have a lot of devices, but you probably don't have that many different models, so manually parsing the output of may be enough to figure out what your devices can do. Unless you are just trying to populate an asset database, you are going to have to look at the configurations and figure out what each device is actually configured to do. 

Over a long time, the network I work with has grown from a couple of servers and a handful of client PCs to a gargantuan beast with the following things configured on the core switch: 

That should get you back up and running. Probably a good idea to change the background colour of your production servers so you have a very obvious visual cue where you are running a particular command! 

Replace {username}, {asa-hostname-or-ip-address}, and {password} above as appropriate. Someone who is more experienced in expect than me might be able to extract the output of the command using and then process it, but the above should get you some of the way. If doing this on a bunch of ASAs you can put the above into a bash script that pulls in an array of asa hostnames, usernames and passwords, then loop using . 

A variety of network inventory tools will help you with this - Spiceworks is available free (although might have a client count limit on the free version). There are others, and you might already have something, especially if you have a deployment tool for setting up those workstations. Many deployment tools include inventory functions. 

You can check if the printer (or its host) is reachable using ping of course. Since that seems obvious, and one of the most basic tests zabbix will let you do, I would guess that you meant something different, but this is what you asked. 

If I am running an IPSEC tunnel over an ADSL connection with bandwidth limits 2mbps down and 1mbps up is the bandwidth over the tunnel limited to 1mbps in both directions or is it also asynchronous? Update: The answers so far haven't helped, so maybe I should give some more info of why I am asking the question. Currently all of our resources are located at our data center, and clients in remote offices access these resources via IPSEC - each office has an ASA 5505 that has a VPN link to an ASA 5510 at the data centre. We use split tunnelling so that traffic not destined for the data center does not have to go over the IPSEC tunnel. Many of our offices are on asynchronous connections (ADSL and VSAT for example) where the upload bandwidth is typically half the download bandwidth. We are currently looking at the option of moving our file storage to a cloud provider, in which case the clients would access the files via HTTPS, rather than over the VPN. One of the possible cases supporting the change would be a performance benefit. It has been suggested to me that users in asynchronously connected offices may potentially see a doubling of download speeds because traffic down an IPSEC tunnel in either direction is limited by the slowest direction. Is this true? 

If you are trying to deploy Windows Server 2008 via disk, then you will need the original installation media, or a copy of it. You can then boot from this to do a standard install. As this seems like a pretty obvious answer, I assume you want to further customise your installs. To do that you'll need a tool like System Center Configuration Manager (not free) or Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (free I believe) or Windows Automated Installation Kit (free). Read more on officially sanctioned options at these links: 

If your server is connected in such a way that it can only send http requests through the proxy, then you shouldn't need to make any changes. However, you will want to make sure you have a way of verifying that your http requests are made through the proxy. Also note - your proxy may not be handling all requests - just http/https. Traffic might be passing through the proxy, but if the proxy isn't configured to handle those in anyway, they may pass through without much trace. If you think this may be happening, I'd tighten up the firewall on the PHP server so that it can only send specified kinds of traffic to specified locations. You should then be able to see what is failing and take appropriate action. 

I can't find any documentation for what or , but I'm pretty sure it means that the IKE handshake has failed for some reason. Can anyone suggest any likely things that might be preventing IKE from succeeding, or specific details of what means? Update: We connected the ASA at the site of a customer of another ISP. The VPN connection came up immediately. This confirms that the problem is not configuration related. The ISP is now accepting responsibility and investigating further. Update: The connection suddenly came back online last week. I have notified the ISP to see if they changed anything, but not heard back yet. Frustratingly I am now seeing a similar issue on another site. I found a Cisco doc on the effects of fragmentation on VPN. I am starting to think that this may be the cause of the issues I am seeing. 

A physical to virtual conversion isn't quite what you asked for, but is a pretty effective backup - VMWare Converter Standalone will do this (you need to specify the source as RHEL). You could then trim down the spec and run it in VMware player or on an ESX server. 

PSEXEC is the tool to use for this. Not TELNET. You say PSEXEC gave you a headache. But TELNET clearly isn't working - give it another shot. 

Identical RAID controller in new machine - can it handle the RAIDed disks? Switch the RAID controller from the old machine into the new along with the disks. Does it work? 

I'm trying to get our developers to standardise on using only one of these when writing custom code that authenticates against AD - trouble is I'm not sure which is the "right" one, or if different ones are the right one in different circumstances. I'm not even sure any of the above fields should be used! Has anyone else picked one to use consistanly, and what influenced you in that decision? Any documentation that clarifies the issue? 

The only requirement for hostnames is that they should be unique on the network. The meaning doesn't have to only be to do with the servers function. Location can be very useful if you have to deal with physical devices. Knowing if a device is virtual or physical can also be useful. Being able to tell the difference between a network device, a linux server or a windows box can be very handy when it comes to figuring out what tool to use to login. The way we handle it is to try and put this information into the device name as follows: L or T - Live or Test P or V - Physical or Virtual S or N - Server or Network (we don't have any Linux servers) a sequential number to ensure uniqueness An ISO 3166-1 three letter country code indicating where the device is located. We then use CNAMES in DNS to map various service names through to the hostname. I have mixed feelings about this. It certainly saves time in having to look up where a certain device is located. On the other hand it is much harder to remember what a given server does when presented with its hostname, when compared to our previous system which used gemstones. The gemstones didn't imply any meaning at all, but they were easy to remember because each person could create their own connections. I guess the only advice would be to settle on one schema as the greatest confusion arose when we transitioned from one system to the other. 

You can then download the captures from each device at and analyse it in Wireshark. My packet captures showed that ISAKMP traffic outlined above was getting fragmented - since those packets are encrypted, once they are fragmented it is hard to put them back together and things break. Giving this information to the ISP meant they could do their own focussed checking, and resulted in them making some changes to a firewall. Turns out the ISP was blocking all ICMP traffic on their edge router, which meant that Path MTU Discovery was broken, resulting in fragmented ISAKMP packets. Once they stopped blanket blocking ICMP the VPN came up (and I expect all their customers started getting better service in general). 

Reading up a little on the IPSEC suite, and ISAKMP more specifically showed that the following need to be allowed through any firewalls in the path: 

Your clients send mail using an smtp server - presumably that is this postfix server. Outgoing mail gets passed through Postfix's smtp transport, and the config above is passing that all through amavisd via the content_filter - so I think your outbound mail is getting processed already. I suggest you test to satisfy yourself whether this is the case. If the server is not very busy you tail your maillog, and watch what happens when you send a test message containing the GTUBE string (). Amavisd/spamassassin should catch the message. If so then you know your mail is being scanned on the way out. 

The PHP manual specifies where you can change each directive. As far as using ini_set or .htaccess you may be out of luck, as according to the docs: 

Different things can create interference in each of these bands. Notably, WiMax operates in the 2 - 11 GHz, which overlaps C Band. C Band installations within 50 miles of a WiMax network can potentially be effected. Nice one IEEE! I have also observed local welding work to completely obliterate a Ku band signal. When the work was completed the connection came back. Rain Fade Ku band is notorious for being affected by water droplets in the atmosphere - commonly referred to as rain fade - although this can affect any frequency above 11 GHz. This is now usually mitigated against by changes to the transmission power at the satellite and earth stations, but can still sometimes cause problems. Build up of moisture in the feed horn of a VSAT dish can degrade the signal enough to break the connection - if the moisture is removed, or once it evaporates, the connection is reestablished. Physical disruption Pointing a dish at a small object 35,786 km away is a fine art. Moving the dish by just 1 degree results in pointing at something more than 600 km away from the satellite! Small knocks to the dish can result in loss of signal, but the dish still looks like it is pointing in the right direction. That is why you spend a lot of money and effort on building secure mounts for your dishes, and put up signs suggesting that getting near the dish is dangerous. Leaving dead birds lying around the dish can be helpful! Talking of birds, they have been known to build nests in VSAT dishes - they generally come with some spikes to discourage this. I've seen a 1.5m Maribou stork perching on a VSAT dish - something that can easily change the alignment of the dish if the mount is not strong. Cabling can also get damaged (and is expensive and awkward to replace). Again, investment in proper cable runs is worthwhile. Wind blowing a loose cable against a wall, especially over an edge, can result in damage to the cable over time. Lightning strikes Like any metal outdoor object pointed at the sky, lightning strikes are a risk. Generally you won't be supplied VSAT equipment without some form of lightning protection, but adequate earthing/grounding is usually left up to you. Are lightning rods a good idea? I'm not sure, and haven't been involved in any installations that include them. Solar activity Solar flares and storms can interfere with any radio communication here on earth, and satellite communications are no exception. Twice a year the satellite will pass directly in between the sun and the earth station - a bit like a solar eclipse, except the satellite is not big enough to blot out the sun. This results in potential disruption four times a year (twice a year for each earth station). Most VSAT suppliers will send you regular updates of when these are likely to affect you. The duration is usually around 5 minutes.