This sounds like a latency problem. Check out your system DPC Latency. If you see any unusual spikes, try disabling devices one at a time to see if you can pin down what's causing it. (You might also try disabling nVidia's apps and services with something like Autoruns; they shouldn't be needed for the drivers to function unless you're doing their spanning or 3D or something.) That said, it's entirely possible that there's some failing hardware - this might help you pin it down though. 

Windows doesn't expose this information out of the box - you need to install any of a myriad of tools to find it. (For something lightweight, I like Open Hardware Monitor.) 

If you can see wireless networks, let alone connect to them, the odds of there being anything wrong with your hardware are infinitesimal. I'd look to software on this one. 

Sounds like a device isn't being detected properly and it's hanging trying to enumerate it. Probably, if you wait long enough (potentially 30+ minutes) it may eventually go past. That said, since you unplugged the hard drive and it quit, it's almost certainly the hard drive. It could well be a motherboard fault or something but it's unlikely. The easiest test, of course, is to try another drive or try this drive in another machine (although note, other machines may be more lenient about their timeouts) 

Very belated answer, but the video card in pretty much any Thinkpad (yes, even the X series) is capable of running monitors at the highest resolution that particular connector will support - so for all practical purposes, as high as you want on DVI or DisplayPort (2560x1600 with no problem), or whatever the practical limit on VGA is, which I honestly don't know, but it should be able to give you 1920x1200 at least. 

What model is your computer and/or motherboard? The answer is "Maybe, but it depends on that." (You could always add another video card if you have a free slot, too, but you seem to be aware of that.) 

DPC latency is usually caused by a bad driver (or a bad device itself). You say you've tried disabling some, but try disabling every single component that you can and see if it goes away, then reenable one a time until you find your culprit. This could also be a virtual hardware driver installed by any apps. In my experience, wireless adapters are NOTORIOUS for doing this, so I'd start there. You might also use LatencyMon rather than DPC Latency Checker - it can be more specific as to what's making the calls. 

Can you provide details on the monitors? I have firsthand experience with this card and it SHOULD work with the DVI and at least one DisplayPort using the bundled adapter. You may possibly just have a bad adapter - it's rare but I've seen plenty in my time. I've also seen rare issues with the Quadro driver in XP locking out displays - you could try rolling back to a 190 revision. 

It sounds like it might just be running a little hot to me...the fact that you indicate you think it needs cleaning tells me it's probably very dusty, which can make thermal problems a real nightmare. I'm willing to bet a good cleaning will help. Beyond that, this could very well be a hardware problem - I'd swap the GPU for another if you can find it. This could also be faulty RAM, even though it passes memtest (which is good but not 100% foolproof). I think the PSU is unlikely to cause this-and-only-this-behavior. Other thoughts: it doesn't sound like a software problem but make sure you have the latest driver installed. Also, make sure the BIOS on your motherboard is updated; there could potentially be a relevant bugfix! 

There should be a good diagram on the setup flyer that came with the machine, which you can also find here. The LEDs don't seem to be there but I think they're inside Access Help (which in Windows 7 integrates itself into the Help and Support heading on the Start Menu). EDIT: IIRC, the first set of LEDS is for WLAN/WAN/Bluetooth radios, second set is NumLock/CapsLock, and the last batch is HDD access/sleep/power/etc etc. 

I'm not familiar enough with this machine to tell you how easy it is, but generally the keyboard on a machine like this is end-user replaceable, so you could simply replace it. Alternatively, you could just open the machine and unplug the data cable connecting it to the motherboard. (I suggest this way specifically so that it doesn't cause you grief in the BIOS or something like that, if the occasion arises.) 

NFC is NOT bluetooth, it's a totally different short-range networking protocol. You're seeing headsets support both protocols as a future-proofing tool. (Personally, I think it's superior for a lot of applications, but then I've never been a fan of bluetooth.) 

In Display Properties, you can drag the thumbnails of the monitors around (this is how you tell Windows exactly the monitors physical relationship to one another if it doesn't guess them right by dumb luck). The alignment you make with those thumbnails EXACTLY reflects the overlap between the monitors (just like in your ASCII-art, basically), so you just need to play around with it until you get exactly what you want. (It sounds like you probably have the tops aligned currently - it will attempt to snap to common edges.) Note that unless the pixel pitch is identical on these monitors, you'll probably never get perfect alignment across the entire length of the screen. 

RAM is addressed by the byte. There are 2^32 addresses possible in this situation, so a maximum of 4294967296 bytes (2^32) can be addressed. That means the effective maximum on addressible memory is 4294967296 bytes, which is 4 gigabytes. 

.msp files can be a couple of things but these are probably Microsoft update files. In general you should never delete anything inside the Windows directory unless you know what you're doing. It's good that you asked first, because if you have to ask, or you don't know what the files are for, you delete them at your own risk. 

The majority of new T and W series Thinkpads are shipped as "WWAN Ready". What this means is that they don't have the WWAN adapter (although they have the Mini-PCI slot available on the board for you to install an internal one, which is as easy as popping off the keyboard and connecting it) but they do already have a SIM card slot, which is generally under the battery. Basically it's a shortcut so that if you DO decide to upgrade, you don't have to have an external Aircard and it's easier to change your SIM. 

Wildly divergent answer, but possibly good for your particular needs: have you considered a SlingBox? I know of at least one software app that claims to let you record the stream, and this has the added bonus of you being able to do it from any machine, anywhere, anytime. EDIT: Oops, the HD SlingBox only has component input, but odds are any HDTV has component output, or an HDMI->component converter is not hard or especially expensive to find. 

Are you trying in the graphics-vendor-specific configuration, or just in the Windows display properties? Right-click desktop, Screen Resolution...then select the display and change the Orientation option. I've yet to see a functioning Windows 7 graphics driver that disabled this functionality...but I guess it's not impossible. How is the monitor cabled? 

This card, indeed all GTS 450s, only support two simultaneous outputs. This is due to the design of the chipset itself (the TDMS links are not nearly as flexible as a comparable EyeFinity-supporting AMD card) 

If the battery does not charge when the laptop is powered off, this has to be a hardware problem. Either the battery is defective, the power supply you're using isn't providing enough power for the system to charge the battery, or the charging mechanisms inside the laptop are damaged in some manner. The virus is purely coincidence - software problems cannot affect what happens when that software isn't running. 

Unfortunately, no. I do think there's a market for a product like this (and maybe somebody will chime in with a 3rd party product that does this). 

The SATA connector on standard 2.5" drives is identical to what a 3.5" drive uses. Depending on your exact chassis, you may need an adapter plate in order to properly mount the drive. (Some SSDs come with one.) 

(Posting comment as answer, per OP's request) There are plenty of applications (DisplayFusion being the best that comes to mind) that will give you duplicate taskbars, which is way better than doing this old-fashioned spanning because windows behave properly - you can still maximize to just one monitor, etc. There are better ways to accomplish multi-monitor workflow than spanning these days, thank goodness! That second behavior is not something I've seen - I'm guessing it's a consequence of that particular graphics driver and/or chipset disabling the secondary output while the machine is locked (at which point Windows will shuffle everything back onto the primary). Most systems don't do this, but I've not tried these exact graphics, so I'm just conjecturing. If that's the case there's probably no good workaround. 

The XHCI controller (Extensible Host Controller Interface) is the USB 3.0 controller. For all practical purposes, you can consider the terms synonymous. So, yes, it sounds like this will disable the controller and the associated ports entirely (unlike earlier controllers, the same stack handles USB1 and USB2 as well as USB3, so this is probably an all-or-nothing prospect). 

Windows presumably remembers your previous monitor configuration, and resets to it on startup. (I'm guessing you never had the external monitor hooked up before, and I'm presuming this is what it's doing because this is the behavior I'd expect out-of-the-box.) Actually changing the active inputs can be difficult at this point - a lot of laptops have a Fn+Fkey toggle for it or something to that effect, but it's different from model to model. Windows 7 has a universal hotkey for this but I don't believe Vista does. On a lot of laptops, simply closing the lid will force it to switch to the external, but if it's configured to go to sleep when you do that, it obviously won't be terribly useful to you. You may be able to go into the BIOS (on your external monitor, before Windows loads) and disable sleep states. (If you're lucky, you may just be able to disable the internal monitor entirely, but that's not a very common feature.) 

This sounds like the problem is the headphones themselves - have you tried them on something besides this laptop? Some of the wiring is probably just worn out from flex or what have you. 

Is the driver for the audio installed in Windows? (That is to say, you get sound in Windows on OTHER devices plugged into the same port?) If this is over HDMI, you may need to explicitly install that with the video driver package. 

Short answer: under XP 'no' - it's not using a modern partitioning scheme. The answer under Vista/7 is 'yes'. Long answer: actually aligning it properly can be a pain depending on what software you have available - some of the stuff linked in that thread and on that forum is good. The simplest thing to do is make the partitions under an OS that does them properly, then move the drive and install. There are some apps that will do it in-place for existing partitions - I've had luck with Paragon's product. 

ReadyBoost isn't designed for use with regular hard drives. The set of requirements is pretty detailed, but in practice it means only flash-based media is fast enough to be used for ReadyBoost. I'd recommend you look here for the exact specifics, but basically you shouldn't expect to use ReadyBoost with anything but a thumb drive. 

Very, very after the fact, but I saw this had never been answered... The functionality you're looking for (which normally just requires checking the 'Use all monitors' box) ONLY works if the target machine is running Windows 7 Ultimate or Enterprise (or Windows Server 2008 R2). This is one of the few legitimate differences between Professional and Ultimate. Note that it doesn't matter what version is on the machine used to manage the remote session, only the target machine (although it needs to be new enough to support this, I think Vista and higher.) 

This could indeed be a power supply stability problem, but it could also just be a faulty component - graphic cards, motherboard, RAM, any of these could in theory contribute to this. It could also (although it's not likely) be a driver or OS problem, so a clean installation of Windows is a good test if it's feasible. Personally, I would swap the graphics card and/or power supply (whichever is easiest for you) as a first test. 

If you actually launch Action Center (the tray application that fusses at you), you can disable the alerts from inside the main interface. 

Assuming DMA57361's assessment of your needs in the comments are correct, BitLocker will let you do full-drive encryption with decryption credentials stored on USB key. There are other solutions as well (TrueCrypt I think has the same functionality) but I suggest BitLocker as being baked into Windows already. ;) I am not aware of any tools that simply lock the bootloader to a key without actually encrypting the drive. (If you're concerned about your data, you'd have to encrypt the drive anyway to keep people from just booting to a LiveCD or even just taking the drive.) EDIT: To enable BitLocker, you need to be running Vista or 7 Ultimate for BitLocker. It's pretty straightforward - put 'BitLocker' in the Start Menu, find the drive in question and enable BitLocker and follow the steps. If your machine DOESN'T have a TPM, you may need to make a group policy change to allow this. Vista directions here, 7 directions here. 

Almost all batteries used in laptops these days have an internal sensor keeping track of the charge level that's designed to keep you from overcharging or undercharging them (which can cause damage). This procedure of doing a full discharge and recharge usually helps to recalibrate the gauge, which depending on the battery may or may not be so accurate out of the box. Many laptops include a utility that will do this for you (force the machine to run on battery even while plugged in until empty, and then recharge) just for this reason, and in fact it can be a good way to get more life out of an older battery that the gauge may have gotten miscalibrated on. Doing it five times is overkill, though, and I think once should be sufficient (unless it's an incredibly lousy gauge). The battery should be good for hundreds of cycles, so it's not going to dramatically reduce the life, it's just pointless effort. 

I'm not familiar with this exact board, but normally most low end dual-socket server motherboards I've used (both Tyan and Supermicro) will only give a constant beep like this if there's an overheat condition going on somewhere. Since you state that the climate control is very good, this makes me think that probably the heatsink for a CPU has come dislodged or is otherwise compromised in performance; I'd check there first (after checking system temps with a utility in the OS, if you can get that far). (It's also possible that this is erroneous and, say, a temperature sensor has malfunctioned.) 

This is almost certainly a video RAM problem on the card. It's either overheating or defective. Clean out the case and make sure it's well ventilated. If not, try swapping the card. 

You have the correct Lenovo software installed, I'll assume? Go into the Tutorial in the FPR app and you can actually test the scanner at will to see if it's actually working. Go into the machine BIOS and clear the security chip and then attempt to reenroll fingerprints again; it's possible that the security hash table is corrupted or something of the sort. It could potentially be that the internal connector is coming unseated, but an X41 Tablet is probably more complicated to disassemble than most people are willing to try (unlike most ThinkPads where most components are easily user-serviceable). If you're technical, I'd recommend going to the Lenovo site and looking for the Hardware Maintenance Manual for that machine model type number because it's worth a try. If none of that works, it's probably just a hardware failure. This is a pretty old machine, and the build quality is obvious if it's lasted you this long with no problems! Good excuse to upgrade to an X201 Tablet. :)