My computer's sound worked perfectly yesterday. I locked the computer, went home for the night, came back today, and now this. NO SETTINGS WERE TOUCHED. If I open playback devices, the little meter next to the Speakers Realtek High Definition Audio default device shows that there is sound playing. But the volume mixer shows no sound anywhere, and indeed there is no sound anywhere. ???? 

I normally use a USB for carrying files around, like anyone. However, I'm now also carrying a Linux distro around on a live USB to boot from. Is it possible to combine these? The USB is 16GB, so it is large enough, if it were possible in the first place. (I put "partitioned" in quotes only because I'm not an OS geek and am not sure if that term has a more specific meaning beyond the way I'm using it.) 

According to instructions I've followed, I'm supposed to add as a parameter to this at the end, and run it. But this produces no apparent change, nothing is different. What is that parameter? Is it supposed to be the name of the partition, in my case? What is and where can I find more information about the parameters it takes? Additionally, there was this in the instructions: 

So I've set up a live USB with Kali for pentesting, and I'm now trying to get persistence working on it. So far, the USB has been partitioned and an ext2 filesystem installed. When I open Kali, there is an unusual folder on the desktop with the icon of a hard drive disk whose name is MyPersistence, the name I chose for the persistence partition. The path of this folder is . Anything I save in this directory gets persisted correctly. However, nothing outside the directory gets persisted at all. At the Kali boot menu, when presented with options, I hit tab and it brings up a small console pre-filled with this command: 

I'm a member of a skype chatroom with a few hundred members that is used for general discussion of a certain technical field so we can all help each other. The chatroom is never closed but rather continues to run ad infinitum and is used around the clock by an ever-rotating group of people around the world. What this means is that anytime I turn Skype off and on again now, I have to load thousands of new messages that took place over the last 12 hours. On Linux this works okay; on Windows it takes several minutes to load the client; and on Mac it crashes the client completely. Is there any way to get it to NOT load the new messages? 

Use the other method I posted before trying this one. This one is too complicated and may not work for everyone. Ok, this is what I did to get the internet sharing working correctly with my nokia 5800 connected to the ad-hoc network. In my case I had all my adapters set to obtain the IP addresses and DNS addresses automatically. NOTE: you have to do everything in this order or you will still get the "Invalid server name" error. Before you start, your wifi adapter should be swithed off. 

If you get it working you can try different settings or different orders, I haven't had the time yet to work it out exactly what is neccessary so maybe there are some things you don't even need to that are on my list to get it working, but atleast this way I have gotten it to work 4 times in a row now. 

click "adapter settings" under "network and sharing center" right click on an adapter and choose "properties", in the properties window see if you have a tab called "sharing" available, if you do then click it and make sure the 2 checkboxes are unmarked. Do this on all available adapters. under "wireless network manager" create the ad-hoc network and leave it discoverable and open(no wep or WPA just choose "open"). (You can try using a Wep or some other key. It hasn't worked for me though). Right-click your LAN adapter and choose "properties" then the "sharing" tab, mark the two checkboxes and in the window that opens when you click on the "settings" button, mark all of these.(WARNING: enabling internet connection sharing on all of these services can be dangerous on an unsecured wifi network you created in step 3. Experiment and leave unmarked as many unneccesary services as possible for the least amount of danger.) Switch your Wifi adapter on. Right-click your wifi adapter and select "properties". Double-click "Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPV4)". Now the "use the following IP address" and "use the following DNS server addresses" should be active. Also there should be addresses filled in the "IP address" and "subnet mask" fields. "Default gateway" and bothh DNS server addresses should be empty. That is how it was in my case. Now write in the "prefferred DNS server address" area the following address "8.8.8.8" and ind the "alternate DNS server" area write "8.8.4.4". (These are Googles public name server addresses ment to be used by anyone.) Click OK, and OK again in the next window. Click on your network icon in the taskbar and connect to the ad-hoc connection you created earlier. Search for wifi networks on your Nokia and connect to it. that's it, it should be working now. If you disconnect, turn your wifi adapter off or get the invalid server name error again. Do everything again from the start of the list. It happens sometimes. 

In the middle of a Skype call yesterday, my friend told me my framerate and audio had abruptly dropped to broken and unusable levels. I could still see and hear him perfectly. Instant messaging works perfectly, but with voice chat over Steam I can hear perfectly but not be heard. I am unable to play networked video games whatsoever-- the pings with other players are in the 6000s. In general it seems webpages load perfectly. I restored the computer to a backup from a week prior: same problem. I reinstalled/updated network drivers: nothing. I ran a virus scan: nothing. The problem seems to be with outbound traffic, yet it only seems to apply to "stream-y" type things. I can't think what else could be wrong other than a failing network chip. Is there any way to be sure? Note, this is over wifi. I have no LAN cables to test with. Also, my other laptop, a mac, works perfectly. Issue does not seem to be with my internet. 

And I'm guessing this media-stream bit might pertain to this. I'm trying to add one that's some variant of "*" to match every site but of course that's not working. Is this a viable approach and I'm just not quite there, or is there another way to do it, or is this impossible? 

So I'm sick of being asked to confirm mic access-- the answer from me is always YES. Yes I am aware of the privacy risk this poses. So I'm in my Chrome User Data folder, in the Preferences file, and I see a list of sites that looks like this: 

You have to individually set it to "International US" for every application you place your cursor focus in. Which means after setting up the international keyboard in the settings, you'll see a little keyboard symbol on the task bar right next to "EN" when you have the EN setting on for language. Click the keyboard and it'll give you the option for "US" or "International." You'll have to make this change for every application you place your cursor focus in. 

I have multiple keyboard layouts set up for my computer so that I can type with the standard layout or with the international keyboard with support for additional characters and accent markers. However, 95% of the time I wish to use the standard layout. But Windows keeps putting it international mode anytime I open a new program, and I have to switch back. Why is this happening and how can I change it? I don't see anything in the settings that seems like it might control this behavior.