This will give you TRUE only if all that cells has the same value. (B1 is just a value from the range, it can be any cell of that (our even you can refer to an external value to check whether each cell is equal to that value)) (COUNTA just counts all the cells in the range to avoid mistakes if you change the name but forget to change the number) 

Your posted VBA does exactly what you described ( choose from a range of numbers, not from range of cells), maybe you should use it in a different way: 

For these specific functions you can do it easily with a support range where you store parameters for : 

It's not the view mode of Word, but it's the property of the document, whether it has been marked as Final. Always opening as final would mean that Word would change this property of the document BEFORE opening it. I don't think it's possible. 

Please see the picture below how you can split your data. Also I've applied a date horizontal axis to make regression sense. 

One key information is apparently missing from both of your references: That feature works only when you read the message only when you read the mail in the main window of Outlook (your first screenshot, links are visible), but not when you're reading it in it's own window (your second screenshot). So your system works as expected. 

Select your control and go to development tab - controls - properties. Here you can manually change the order of items. Considering the number of options it'll take time, but unfortunately I don't know any better solution. 

Second will result the formula as a text, you can't evaluate it. For versions before 2010 you can do it only with VBA. 

Where is your original formula. I don't know how you calculate in carpentry, you may want to use to avoid calculating less then necessary. Also, you may want to replace 8 to 16, 32 in the formula and display up to two digits. 

Below is a table to split by month number of nights regardless of how many months are included: Note that even if only month names appear in first row those are actually dates: first days of the months formatted to show only month name ("mmmm") Formula in the table is: 

Finding first empty row in excel in easiest way is with (if your data doesn't start in first row, then use: ) 

from office support If you have a formula in a cell then it can not be empty anymore. You can set the output of the formula to be an empty string ("") which appears to be blank on the screen, that can be tested by above formula. 

Windows 7 keeps only the last entry of the clipboard and drops (=forget) the previous one. There are clipboard manager tools (link, another) which store clipboard content and let user access multiple entries, but they can work since you install them. So the answer is your question is that you can't recover the content of the clipboard if you don't have already such a tool installed. 

It is not a standalone function, just two minus signs next to each other. It is used to convert boolean (TRUE / FALSE) values to number, as those not always evaluate correctly in formulas. First converts TRUE to , and second one changes it to . First converts FALSE to (, and second one doesn't change it). 

There could be differences how Word receives the information from the workbook depending whether it is open in Excel at the time of read. Try closing Excel when you generate the mail merge. 

is useful for conditional addition (e.g. sum only numbers which are less then 10), you need to use and : 

Select the entire column, go to number format and select text. You can start entries with so Excel will treat them as text. 

This solution works only if you have prices starting with / and finished by a space or end of string, so it won't work if you have e.g. comma after the number, if you want to have more general solutions than there are free regular expression add-ins for Excel which provide regEx find capable worksheet functions. That would be your ultimate solution. 

As I've mentioned in the comment, the right tool for you is to use Word's mail merge feature (official help here and here). There you can set up a template, then fill it with data from Excel, one page from each row. 

Your formula is an array formula, you need to finish it by CTRL+ALT+ENTER instead of just ENTER. So giving the error message is the expected result, apparently excel manage press of F9 in a more intelligent way. 

Pressing Alt+F9 toggle field codes and will show you codes instead of hyperlinks, they will look like e.g. 

Looping through cells downwards and deleting some of them with shifting others up cause that macro doesn't check all cells. Easy solution here is to move upwards: 

your time is already stored as time, and when you perform any text actions on it, that's done on the numerical version of it (one day = 1, one hour = 1/24 ... 11:04 = 0.46111) 

select your range you want to conditionally format go to home - conditional formatting - new rule - use a formula to determine which cell to format Enter the formula (where A1 is your active cell) Go to Format - Number; Select custom and enter your format code ( in your example) 

That's the driver of your touch pad / touch styck and related buttons, I wouldn't recommend uninstalling it. $URL$ 

I use MS Word Professional Plus 2013 32 bit under Windows 7 64 bit. Whenever I select a field and press F9, instead of it would be updated as described here, I get error message: 

You need to remove values from your data to let Excel understand you don't want to plot it. Easiest way for that is to use a calculated column: 

Unfortunately there is no straightforward solution for that in word. Either you can set the page size to the one you need to print on (that will change layout so probably you'll need to format your document again). Or print the document with current settings to pdf and from pdf you can resize it to fit your page. 

Array formulas Array formulas can be great, however they can go wrong after edit. If you see around a formula in Excel, then it's an array formula, after editing it, press CTRL+Shift+Enter to keep it as an array formula. Asking for help If you still can't solve it, then maybe it's a good idea to ask for help. If you decide to ask here, please make sure your question includes: 

This way you've created a chart showing average height by hair colour, and also height distribution of people. 

Number of groups is really depends on your data (number records, distribution across bins, groups, company sizes), probably you need to play a bit around to see what gives the best picture. 

This will look for all dates entered as 1/2 digit day/month and 2/4 digit year, parts are separated by a single 2. convert extracted texts to dates In the examples I've used functions, which works for Gregorian calendar only, I don't have experience with hijri. 

You need to create two separate Heading 1 style for that: At first create some Heading 1 paragraphs and set the numbering as you need. Then select one where you don't need formatting: 

(note: I've just check last 365 days instead of one calendar year, you may want to use different calculation). 

So your device is an ADSL router, not a modem. It can be used only to connect to ADSL networks, so there is no way to use it any other cases. Also it can't be used as a simple switch. You need to ask your ISP (internet service provider) to learn what type device you need to connect to the internet. 

Unfortunately Excel can't create that chart from data formatted as you have it, need to convert it. You can do it with two formulas: 

Depending on size of your data and accuracy (number of decimals) of computerisation data, this could give you a nice chart. For me, on 100 completely random data, with 3 digit accuracy of computerisation it isn't really nice: 

This is an array formula, so after inserting you need to press CTRL + SHIFT + ENTER. The formula will be automatically updated if you insert / delete columns to / from after first column referenced and before last column referenced. 

At first you need to change reference style: go to file - options - formulas and check "R1C1 reference style" Creating headers: 

works with autofill of formulas only, your described story is the expected behaviour of Excel, you can't really change it. As a workaround, either: 

I don't think it's possible with columns as you tried. Closest workaround could be to insert a table with three columns and one rows, set it to have even column widths, then insert your tables into the cells of this new table. (Of course you can remove borders of the big table, so finally it would look like as you expect.) 

That's most probably caused by "Change tracking", you can finish this behaviour at review - track changes. To accept all changes already tracked and remove lines go to review - accept - all. 

I'm not aware of any built in solution like this, you can do it with VBA. Below there is an example, it asks for the number and inserts the cross reference, put it in your normal.dotm to be able to reach from any document and assign a shortcut to it and you have your solution. Updated code 

Tracker Here I'm not sure I understand your original formula correctly. - What happens if ? Or is that an unrealistic scenario? If yes, then just use a simple function: 

The only drawback of this method is that if both cells contains "tomato", then you'll need to delete it from both cells before you can enter another value. 

Note: to be consistent within calculation I've changed to , if my assumption isn't correct, you can change it back. 

Here is my approach with instead of concatenation, it'll give you a more readable formula when you expand your formula to more type of words: Instead of nested if you can even make it more clear by using support range (one column for word type and another one for format) and 

Note: in my solution I use that highest downturn is always end at the minimum of the range between start position and end of data Now you just need to filter for the highest value and you will see also the other end of the range in the address column. (e.g. in attached picture biggest downturn is 20, from rows 3 to 7). 

Login|Password These are the credentials you use to manage your router (you can navigate to it's login page by typing its address in a browser (192.168.0.1 or 192.168.0.0 in many times), there you can change settings e.g. change WPA key, enable / disable wifi, manage internet connection... ESSID|WPA2 Key SSID is the name of your wifi network, and WPA(2) key is the password required to connect to it. 

It's called "autocorrect" in Office currently. You can't get it Excel only, it'll behave the same in all Office applications. 

I've a TP Link TL-WR841N 300 Mbps wifi router and I've issues with it's range. It works perfectly if I connect from the same room, but over a standard brick wall, even from 3 m distance the connection sometimes gets slow, laggy and even drops. (Both from a HP EliteBook 840 G3 Windows 7, and also Samsung Smartphones with android). I bought the router 5 years ago and it started to loose performance a few months ago. (maybe it's getting old? and there were also changes (change of ISP, modem, pc ...) which might cause compatibility issues too.) So I've decided I'll replace it and now I'm asking for advice here for the selection. What I've decided already is that I'll buy one with 802.11ac standard. My issue is the range, I've been told routers having external antennas are generally better for this, but is there any other parameter I could check (reception sensitivity, transmit power ...) which affect it? Note: I'm not asking for selecting a specific hardware, I'm asking for help to understand routers. 

You can insert it to the document by going to insert - quick parts - field; from categories select "Document information", select "DocProperty" in field names and finally select your property from "property" field You can refresh all fields to its new value by selecting all document content (CTRL+A), right-clicking on a field and selecting "update" 

It is a coaxial cable. Generally there could be several types of cable between the wall end your modem depending on the technology of your internet provider. ($URL$ 

Unfortunately regex in Word doesn't support neither alternatives , neither "zero or more" quantifiers ( or ), so I'm afraid there is no straightforward way to do that. You need to look for each form in a separate search. Update Re-reading your question I've realized you'll use it in a macro, fortunately there regular expressions are different, you can use: 

Go to insert - shapes - rectangles - "round single corner rectangle" After inserting it you can format it as you need, and after right click you can select "add text", so it'll behave as a text box. 

You can set value of vertical axis, set to the desired one. Unfortunately you can't enter a dynamic value, need to update it each time when your data changes. 

You need to add a helper column to your source data. Supposing that name is in column A and Town is in column D, your formula will be (in E2): 

Easiest way is probably to synchronize all your files and settings to the cloud (with windows 10 evident solution is onedrive) and create user account for all of you on all the laptops. 

The main interface for managing conditional formattings in Excel is the form you've mentioned. There is no better alternative for that. However you may find some alternatives: 

As Teylyn has stated, it isn't possible in the exact way as you'd like it to work. Another workaround besides VBA is to use form control drop-down list instead of the one in data validation: 

A more general solution compared to Frank Thomas's one: Find what: Replace to: This will remove everything after second 

You can search for words containing only capital letters with To search plural forms use Unfortunately I couldn't find a way to do it in the same expression. To what special character you want to replace? You can find several useful tips on the internet, e.g. on Office site Based on your comment: you can refer to the text you found by , so to add after each found item, just put in the replace to field. 

Note: I'm not affiliated in any way with that add-in, just use it as it makes my life easier. Update You can use this formula for your 13 character code: 

Supposing your data can be only positive or zero, you can use this formula using the exact logic you've described: 

This is not possible, VBA functions called from a formula in the worksheet doesn't have access to any other cell in the worksheet. 

Once you've added more than one fields to the "Values" part of the pivot table, a field called "Values" is automatically added to "Columns", just move this field to "Rows". 

This will give TRUE for correct data and FALSE for wrong. Just filter it in the pivot chart. If you want to count wrong and correct data it's also easy in a pivot table. Update Filtering out wrong values After inserting the new column, just insert a pivot chart on the data with the following settings: 

I don't think there's a straightforward way to do it. Try this: - merge your data in one range remembering original location (e.g. Copy your first column to a new sheet and fill "1" in the next column, copy the second column below first one and fill "10" in the second column for this set of data). - insert a pivot table, column labels should be your first column and ask for sum of second column ( now you have your unique values sorted alphabetically, in second column 1 or 10 if name occurred only in one column or 11 if it present in both). - supposing that your data in pivot table starts in A5, enter this in C5: and this one in d5: 

You can look for (make sure "search mode" is "regular expression" and maybe check "wrap around") And replace it to An example.