All drives are made the same to avoid this sort of problem. All PATA drives have 40 or 44 male pins. I would suspect that if yours doesn't look like one of these or this then you're probably looking at a drive and an IDE connector which has been forcibly removed and broken. From your description, it may also be that you have a SATA drive and a PATA motherboard. If that is the case then you need an adapter if this is going to work. I have no experience using these though. 

Update 2 If you want to get this into Word correctly (without buying the pro version of Acrobat) then you just want to print the document to a pdf file. Then open that pdf file in Word (just like you would open a file). Word will covert it correctly only if done exactly like I've explained (you should see a message box asking you weather you want to continue with the conversion after you click open). Oh and your question about adding 4 lines of text before each source file shows that you've learned nothing from what I've shown you. Look at the first part of my answer again and take a good guess as to how that would be done. 

You can use the Word dialog to insert the symbol into your document. Find a Unicode character code When you select a Unicode character in the Symbol dialog box, its character code appears in the Character code box. 

Yes, it's perfectly legal because your ISP owns the addresses they give you. Mediacom allows you to simply type: then wait a few seconds and . I would guess that MOST ISPs will allow this type of standard DHCP requests. The benefit to doing it this way is that you don't have to wait for it to happen. Also, if your ISP is going to allow this then this is how they're probably going to have you do it anyway. If you have a static IP this will not work. That is unlikely however. I'm purposely ignoring the Twitter part of this post. If you want me to answer something about Twitter you'll need to ask a new question. 

If you would like to ensure that only folders at a certain depth are used then it's a little more complicated: 

The difference between DVI-I and DVI-D is that the DVI-D only outputs a digital signal. Your monitor may be analog so it is not compatible. It may also be that you've disabled the auto-select source option on your monitor and it is stuck on analog now. Look for a way to select the digital source on your monitor. If this isn't available then I'd guess that you have an analog only monitor. Most LCDs do support digital input though so this is unlikely. $URL$ 

You can also insert Unicode characters using their Unicode ID (2013 for the dash you're using) by typing it out and then pressing Alt + x with the insertion pointer directly after the number. 

You're looking at the device manager which is only one way to disable an audio device. There is a good chance that this is actually talking about the virtual audio device listed in the sound managers 'Playback Devices' list. You can access this by right clicking on the speaker icon in your task tray and choosing the 'Playback Devices' option. This should show you a screen similar to the following: 

Also, because I like to first test all of this before I use it, I would start by getting an command to print what you want. Once you have that perfect, just add the xargs part. I find this the best way to get it right every time. 

After the pointer changes to a paintbrush, select the shape, text, or worksheet cell that you want to format. To copy the formatting to a single cell, several cells, or a range or ranges of cells, drag the mouse pointer across the cells or ranges of cells that you want to format. 

Yes, you want to get a router with WiFi and Ethernet. Connect your modem to that and then connect your PCs to it. Then it will be fine as long as that is on. 

Copy that and save it as repl.bat. You may want to place it in your system path if you think you'll use it again. Otherwise just put it with the files you are working on. Now create another file for this task (I called it test.bat): 

since it's only 1 line. I'm going to guess that the problem you had was that you named your BATCH file . Then inside it you just used . This caused your script to reference itself because DOS is going to look in the current dir first. It would've ended up calling over and over again. Update If you want the window to stay open then you have a few options. You can use the command: 

You'll notice that your configuration doesn't include a . This directive is very important for each vhost. 

Ya, the tool is your eyes. They should have a look at the mobo manual which came with your mobo. It lists all of the memory configurations officially supported. 

This will put the host file on the device shared drive over the stock file. A better tutorial is on howtogeek.com NOTE: If you have an internal DNS server then you can (and should) just add an 'A' record for it instead. 

I don't think Windows (or Word) includes a hieroglyph font. You may be able to find one on the Office website but NewGardiner seems to have lots of good characters. You should have administrator privileges on your machine to install a font (if you don't have permission then you may need to find someone who does). If you have that it is just a matter of double clicking the font file to open in in the font preview window. The just click the button in the top area of the font preview window to install a font. Once installed, the string should give you what you want when 'New Gardiner' is selected as the font (you'll probably need to use 'Merge Formatting' when you paste it from this site). You may also want to look at it in the Character Map to find grouped multiples of these glyphs; which will produce a better spacing for longer numbers. Ale has also brought up a good point about portability. At the bottom of the tab in the Word dialog, there is a section that you can use to add the font to the document so that it'll work when you move this document to another computer: 

The internal address is the one used by the Wifi adapter in the phone. Even if you aren't connected to a Wifi it'll be there as long as you have been since the phone was booted (it maybe there even if it isn't enabled, IDK haven't looked myself). 

It's that simple. Oh ya, if you'd rather have a header and save the results to a file, then it's still a one liner: 

If you can't be bothered to mess with your installation disk then just get it from the OpenSSH site: $URL$ Or, if you really want a *.deb package, get it on the launchpad site: $URL$ 

Set the and variables then call it with the path to the file that you want to split by lines or size. I'm sure that there is a command for doing this which is much faster though. 

Just call it like: . If you want to you can parse this to create the CIDR notation or you can try to parse it from the output of which displays in CIDR notation already. I don't have this code handy though. You may have noticed that neither of these solutions actually take an IP address and spit out a netmask. To do that is not possible. The reason we need to specify a netmask when configuring our IP is because it cannot automatically be determined by the IP. The netmask is a filter to be applied to an IP address. It contains information not inherent to an IP address. Both of these solutions are actually just returning the netmask used to configure the interface. 

Keyboard Input Model The system provides device-independent keyboard support for applications by installing a keyboard device driver appropriate for the current keyboard. The system provides language-independent keyboard support by using the language-specific keyboard layout currently selected by the user or the application. The keyboard device driver receives scan codes from the keyboard, which are sent to the keyboard layout where they are translated into messages and posted to the appropriate windows in your application. Assigned to each key on a keyboard is a unique value called a scan code, a device-dependent identifier for the key on the keyboard. A keyboard generates two scan codes when the user types a key—one when the user presses the key and another when the user releases the key. The keyboard device driver interprets a scan code and translates (maps) it to a virtual-key code, a device-independent value defined by the system that identifies the purpose of a key. After translating a scan code, the keyboard layout creates a message that includes the scan code, the virtual-key code, and other information about the keystroke, and then places the message in the system message queue. The system removes the message from the system message queue and posts it to the message queue of the appropriate thread. Eventually, the thread's message loop removes the message and passes it to the appropriate window procedure for processing. Keyboard Focus and Activation The system posts keyboard messages to the message queue of the foreground thread that created the window with the keyboard focus. The keyboard focus is a temporary property of a window. The system shares the keyboard among all windows on the display by shifting the keyboard focus, at the user's direction, from one window to another. The window that has the keyboard focus receives (from the message queue of the thread that created it) all keyboard messages until the focus changes to a different window. A thread can call the GetFocus function to determine which of its windows (if any) currently has the keyboard focus. A thread can give the keyboard focus to one of its windows by calling the SetFocus function. When the keyboard focus changes from one window to another, the system sends a WM_KILLFOCUS message to the window that has lost the focus, and then sends a WM_SETFOCUS message to the window that has gained the focus. The concept of keyboard focus is related to that of the active window. The active window is the top-level window the user is currently working with. The window with the keyboard focus is either the active window, or a child window of the active window. To help the user identify the active window, the system places it at the top of the Z order and highlights its title bar (if it has one) and border. The user can activate a top-level window by clicking it, selecting it using the ALT+TAB or ALT+ESC key combination, or selecting it from the Task List. A thread can activate a top-level window by using the SetActiveWindow function. It can determine whether a top-level window it created is active by using the GetActiveWindow function. When one window is deactivated and another activated, the system sends the WM_ACTIVATE message. The low-order word of the wParam parameter is zero if the window is being deactivated and nonzero if it is being activated. When the default window procedure receives the WM_ACTIVATE message, it sets the keyboard focus to the active window. To block keyboard and mouse input events from reaching applications, use BlockInput. Note, the BlockInput function will not interfere with the asynchronous keyboard input-state table. This means that calling the SendInput function while input is blocked will change the asynchronous keyboard input-state table. Keystroke Messages Pressing a key causes a WM_KEYDOWN or WM_SYSKEYDOWN message to be placed in the thread message queue attached to the window that has the keyboard focus. Releasing a key causes a WM_KEYUP or WM_SYSKEYUP message to be placed in the queue. Key-up and key-down messages typically occur in pairs, but if the user holds down a key long enough to start the keyboard's automatic repeat feature, the system generates a number of WM_KEYDOWN or WM_SYSKEYDOWN messages in a row. It then generates a single WM_KEYUP or WM_SYSKEYUP message when the user releases the key. System and Nonsystem Keystrokes The system makes a distinction between system keystrokes and nonsystem keystrokes. System keystrokes produce system keystroke messages, WM_SYSKEYDOWN and WM_SYSKEYUP. Nonsystem keystrokes produce nonsystem keystroke messages, WM_KEYDOWN and WM_KEYUP. If your window procedure must process a system keystroke message, make sure that after processing the message the procedure passes it to the DefWindowProc function. Otherwise, all system operations involving the ALT key will be disabled whenever the window has the keyboard focus. That is, the user won't be able to access the window's menus or System menu, or use the ALT+ESC or ALT+TAB key combination to activate a different window. System keystroke messages are primarily for use by the system rather than by an application. The system uses them to provide its built-in keyboard interface to menus and to allow the user to control which window is active. System keystroke messages are generated when the user types a key in combination with the ALT key, or when the user types and no window has the keyboard focus (for example, when the active application is minimized). In this case, the messages are posted to the message queue attached to the active window. Nonsystem keystroke messages are for use by application windows; the DefWindowProc function does nothing with them. A window procedure can discard any nonsystem keystroke messages that it does not need. Virtual-Key Codes Described The wParam parameter of a keystroke message contains the virtual-key code of the key that was pressed or released. A window procedure processes or ignores a keystroke message, depending on the value of the virtual-key code. A typical window procedure processes only a small subset of the keystroke messages that it receives and ignores the rest. For example, a window procedure might process only WM_KEYDOWN keystroke messages, and only those that contain virtual-key codes for the cursor movement keys, shift keys (also called control keys), and function keys. A typical window procedure does not process keystroke messages from character keys. Instead, it uses the TranslateMessage function to convert the message into character messages. For more information about TranslateMessage and character messages, see Character Messages. For more information, see the full version here: $URL$