Create folder in the /mnt/ folder so that you can mount your network share in that folder: $sudo mkdir mountfoldername Two Ways to access 

We need to edit the /etc/fstab file, Run the following command to edit the /etc/fstab file $sudo nano /etc/fstab Append the following to the /etc/fstab file For Guest Login //WindowsPC/Share1 /mnt/mountfoldername cifs guest 0 0 

Closing Notes: For any reason, should you want to shut down Plex, you can either just stop it, or remove it by running or for complete removal. If you want to stop the redirector, you may type , or you can just remove it by running after running the stop command. Both of these will start on boot. If you are going to use this as a low power server for while on the go, do not login. Sources: Personal Experience, Samba instructions Raspbain Jessie 8 

Installing Plex Enter the following commands, one after the other until you have completed the list. 

Requirements 1 x Raspberry Pi - Min requirements: ARM7 processor or better 1 x WiFi Network connection, or Ethernet Connection (if wifi is embedded [like 0W or 3] don't worry about it) 1 x External Hard Drive or NAS formatted in a UNIX friendly FileSystem Remote or local access to the server. 

Setting Up Plex Navigate a web browser to $URL$ if you are on the pi, or to $URL$ if it is in your home network. The web interface will guide you from here. All Plex updates can be done by running in the command line. 

Note the UUID of the last drive, which will be mounted at /dev/sda1 if it is the only one, then enter to edit the file for automounting. The file should look something like this: 

Now if we reboot we need to again mount this network share. To Automount the network shares everytime on boot follow on 

Automounting the Drive To mount the drive on boot, it is recommended that you use fdisk. This allows the system to perform the action before anything else is active. Before going forward, you must understand that this is not permanent, but could cause problems if there are programs dependant on this drive. 

To answer you first question: Plex can be installed without the OS RasPlex installed (RasPlex is actually a client, not a server). All that is needed is Raspbian (I did it on Jessie 8), and a few instructions to be followed, which are included below. I have down this 4 times, and has worked every time. A note for those who may be oblivious: This will not support transcoding, as it is not a powerful server, so make sure all of your media is encoded in the appropriate codec for multi-device playback [usually an MP4 or similar]. Note: ensure you have formatted the external hard drive in one of the following ways: NTFS, exFAT, or Extended Linux. When you are done, you may want to run for a reboot. 

A Simple Redirector If you are wanting it so people can just go to $URL$ to access the site, you could whip together an html document that auto redirects to the Plex address. I have included how to do this below Install Apache 2 

If you are running Jessie, there is a bit of a difference of where your webserver will hold its data. In Wheezy it is located at , Jessie locates it at Go to whichever directory by typing then type . While in this directory, create a new file called "index.html". You may do this by typing , then adding the content located in code below. All links may be edited. index.html 

Note that the UUID of my drive has been copied to the file above the commented , beside it, use the tab key to add the mount point (mine is /mnt/PlexPi, but yours can be different). Press control x to exit, then Y to save the nano document. Based on the format of the drive, (mine is exfat, yours may be different), add that beside the mount point after a tab, then add the rest 

Simple Debugging of X11 SSH Connection There is no need to start X11 manually on the Mac side. If you use the option when trying to connect via ssh, you'll get useful debugging messages. Towards the end of messages, you'll notice that X11 is started automatically: 

The result of the working procedure is a logical link in to the certificate in and the new certificate being added to the trust store. Hopefully, this tested procedure works for you. 

You can also check if the default password is what is expected or change the default password by modifying the file on the SD card. The instructions for adding a new user included in the link @Ghanima posted in his comment should work as well. Update From your comment, it seems you are trying to install Noobs without a display, perhaps these instructions will work for you. They are a little on the old side, but perhaps they will still work. My advice would be to download the official Raspbian image which is a lot easier to work with on initial install without a keyboard and monitor. 

You can easily experiment with adding a parallel capacitance. Simply solder a small value capacitor in across the C1 capacitor listed in the schematics. To lower the overall capacitance value, you'll need to replace the surface mount cap on the board since the board doesn't seem to have any pads to attach series capacitors. 

Since it seems that your is missing, you may want to fill it in with the necessary information. You'll need to manually mount the root and boot partitions first: 

To more directly answer the question... The DAC8532 on the board is not an SPI device. It accepts serial input into its shift register as can be seen on its datasheet However, it's not strictly SPI. The device is not tolerant of SPI protocols. 

CA certificates are located in as well as and in some cases . In general CA certs should not be manually added to the local trust store. There are reasons why certain CAs are not included. Without further research, it's unclear why this particular CA root cert was not included in Raspbian. It seems to be included in my Debian 'Buster' installation running Brave Browser. All trusted CA certificates are added to a main trust store at . The main trust store is updated through either through: 

The screen itself looks like it work just fine. However, the neither the HDMI cable nor the USB cable that accompany the unit will work with Pi Zero. 

The relay was designed to be operated with a +5V signal, according to its specification. The Raspberry Pi GPIO outputs 3.3V signals. So, this relay is not usable as is with the Raspberry Pi. You will need to either create an external transistor circuit that will control a 5V signal, or use a different relay board. 

So, it seems that is has two locations for with the user Remove the second one, and see what happens. 

And then change the root partition in your to You can do this on your Windows machine, just like you did to add the IP. 

If you are looking at the guide linked to by @RichardChambers then the relay board has the transistor and the diode (the orange component with the clear packaging) listed in the relay control circuit. However, it's important to note that the transistor could be setup to follow reverse logic. The type of transistor will determine how the input functions. An NPN BJT configured as in the above guide, will follow normal logic. However, some other transistor might be used to change the input voltage sensitivity or perhaps the logic applied. 

Perl is a programming language and associated interpreter. happens to be written in . The probably has to do with your file permissions when you setup It's probably a good idea to stick with which is far simpler to setup and use. is probably not the application for your use case. If you are planning on accessing your files via the Internet and a home based web server, I highly recommend securing the connection via TLS... self-signed certs are fine as long as no one else is connecting to the home server, and you know they were generated by you. Superuser: Self-signed certs for home server question If you have no idea what any of this means... I highly recommend that you don't open your network and home file server up to the Internet.