As was pointed out, if a known good hard drive doesn't work with the same adapter, then you can safely assume the hard drive has completely kicked the bucket. Unfortunately, taking it to a store at this point will most likely result in you paying a diagnostic fee, but not getting any data recovered. Why? Because at this point a shop will be attempting essentially the same thing you will be attempting. This is not to say that the data is unrecoverable. However, once a drive gets this bad, your options are limited to sending the drive to a viable data recovery center. At a data recovery center, they can use specialized equipment like this PC-3000 card which goes for a few thousand dollars US. That particular card enables the firmware chip on a hard drive to be reprogrammed or copied, which can enable them to take a similar hard drive control board and copy your drive's firmware onto the new board... which then facilitates a swap of the bad control board for a now exact copy. Of course, the PC-3000 is only useful for issues that related to problems with the control board. A data recovery center will also be equipped with a clean room (dust free) where they can take your drive apart, remove the platens and put them inside a new casing with a new control board. The smallest amount of dust in the wrong place on the surface of a platen can render a drive unreadable. At any rate, the specialized equipment necessary to recover drives that cannot be accessed is very expensive, and this can make the process of recovering an otherwise dead drive very expensive. So... what does this mean? It means take it to the shop, and be ready to pay a little money for them to tell you they can't do anything... and then if you really need the data, be ready to pay 2 to 5 times what it would cost to replace the drive to get the data recovered at a recovery center. 

I can't say for sure, but the fact that you had to fiddle with the power supply voltage switch would indicate that the problem could very well be the PSU... your other symptoms also point to that. As far as testing it without an actual tester, or using a standard Multimeter, here are some lengthy instructions on how to go about doing that. I'll see about condensing them to add to an edit later on. EDIT actually, there isn't much I would trim, as it's all kind of important to the process.. even the redundant parts at the end. So, here goes... 

A hard drive making sounds is not the only sign of a failing hard drive. In some cases, failure will occur at the mainboard... the small printed circuit board attached to the bottom of the drive... which can make the drive just cease to operate. No warning signs, no warning sounds... nothing. Just letting you know that a clicking drive is just one symptom out of many. Not every drive will tell you ahead of time with an audible sound that it is failing. 

Trace Route. if you are in Windows, bring up a command prompt. type "tracert" and your external IP. You'll see it make one hop. Should be a 1ms hop. So, it doesn't go out to your ISP (1 hop) and then back to you (2nd hop). Same thing if you tracert with the name of one of your computers on the network. 

When you say a Zip file, do you mean an uncompressed archive that would be the same size as all the individual files? Or do you mean a compressed archive? Because right there, if you are talking about a compressed archive, you'd have a faster transfer, which strictly speaking would be better. Of course, if you take into account the amount of time it takes to make the archive, and how long it takes to extract the archive, then the specs of both machines come into play as to whether the archive is better than loose files. Now, since you are talking about RDP (as opposed to VNC), the bandwidth usage of the remote connection is quite a bit. RDP is more responsive than VNC, the color depth is (by default) more than 256 colors (32 bit if you don't change it), the screen size will be the size of your desktop, etc... all of these factors affect how much bandwidth is being used just for the remote connection. If you drop things like... the size of the remote desktop, and color depth to 16 bit or less, make sure you aren't sharing sound, etc... this will use less bandwidth for the remote connection, so that when you are transferring files, the remote session should be more responsive. In the end though, unless you can throttle the file transfer, the remote session is going to get sluggish no matter what you do while you are transferring files, since as much of the available bandwidth as possible is going to be used for the transfer between the remote machine and your machine. EDIT You are attempting to find a simple way to transfer files WITHOUT affecting the quality of the remote connection. It doesn't matter if they are large files or small files. At your end (the client machine) you are squirting small amounts of data up to the remote machine (server machine). You know... typing, mouse commands, etc. The server is sending large amounts of data to you all the time, in the form of the images that are making up what you see across the remote connection. So, before you transfer any files, you are ALREADY transferring a large amount of data in one direction. That's why I brought up the things you could do to reduce the amount of data you are transmitting.... namely use a smaller resolution for the remote machine on your desktop (as opposed to full screen).... reducing the number of colors from 32 bit to 16 bit or even 8 bit. Those two steps right there will drop the amount of data you are transmitting from the server (remote) to the client (you). It also means that when you start transferring files along the same connection and route, your remote connection will suffer less. As I said... nothing you can do will make the connection stay crisp and responsive. Why? Because as soon as you start transferring files from the server to the client, this is going to suck up every bit of bandwidth that is available along that pipe.... and you are already using some of the bandwidth along that pipe for the remote connection itself. 

It's not a heatsink from your model, but it is a great example of how dust can and will build up on the leading edges of the sink. You can see enough dust to impede airflow after just a year of regular use. Think of it like a lint trap in a clothes dryer. A little dust will catch on the edges of the sink facing the fan, and that dust will in turn catch more dust, until you can end up looking like that... or looking like a piece of felt. In short, it can't hurt to carefully disassemble the laptop and clean the fan and the heatsink... or pay someone to do it for you. From this image of the fan assembly for your laptop (from an ebay.com listing)... 

Download the WDK Windows Driver Kit 7.1.0 from Microsoft. Use the Universal Extractor to extract the contents of the ISO to a temporary location... or use whatever method you like to mount and get inside the ISO. You can use the same tool to extract the install file "WDK\setuptools_x64fre.msi" to a temporary directory. In that temporary directory you will find "WinDDK\7600.16385.win7_wdk.100208-1538\tools\devcon\amd64\devcon.exe". It has been tested to work with Win7x64, and it is part of the most recent Windows Driver development kit. 

Now, they go on to state what settings are necessary, how you would need to adjust the "shutter speed" (there is no actual shutter though), how using the Low Light Boost might severely drop the frame rate to as low as 5fps, etc. But, the important info.... well... read for yourself... 

Is the physical USB port that you are plugged into soldered directly onto the motherboard, or is it connected via a cable... as all Case Front USB ports are? It is completely possible that the device is USB 2.0, and the header on the motherboard is USB 2.0, but that the port or wiring for the port connected to the header is NOT USB 2.0. Of course, this is a relatively specific situation, but we don't know the specific details of your situation. There is even the potential that the issue is the cable between the port and the device. 

The author then goes on to provide a link to the adapter he said he purchased... but the link produces a PASSIVE adapter, which is odd after he had said you need to purchase an active adapter. At any rate, here is a link to the post within the thread. To summarize... you need the right adapter. 

From the comments and details that came out of them, I am really leaning heavily toward Bad Video Ram. The picture looks like Bad Video Ram. The problem happens independent of an OS, and it eventually followed you into the BIOS. You could still connect an external monitor, and use (I think) Fn+F8 to switch from the laptop screen to the external monitor... but if it is Bad Video Ram, the problem would continue there as well. Yes, it could be the GPU instead of the VRAM, but it doesn't look like it's the GPU. 

First, I need to ask if this is the original power adapter. Why? Because I have seen this issue happen with multiple different brands of laptops after the power adapter has been replaced with one that doesn't put out the same wattage. What I mean is, that laptop requires a 120 watt power adapter. If you were to be using it with a 90 watt adapter, then the symptoms you describe would be the same... the laptop operates normally and charges as it is supposed to in Windows, but as soon as you do anything that draws more power (IE play a game), it causes the laptop to cease drawing from the adapter. I haven't seen this damage the power adapter itself. So, that's the first thing I would check. Is your power adapter a 120 watt adapter? It should output 19.5 volts at 6.15 amps. Now... if THAT isn't the issue... then you should start reading the threads at Lenovo forums. $URL$ You do not appear to be alone in having power issues with the Y500 series, and specifically the Y580. There are other threads you can also read that are linked within posts in that thread. To summarize though, the symptoms that they describe are different (not much tho) from yours. No concrete solution is supplied, and temporary solutions are convoluted. You said you just received the laptop. As in, you bought it new from a store? Because the implication in the threads from the Lenovo forums is that changing the Operating System from the one it shipped with would alter the power management software, and have an effect on how the laptop handled power. If you purchased the laptop new, then it is unlikely that the OS is not the one it was shipped with. If you purchased the laptop USED however, or got it given to you by someone else, then you can look into using the recovery software to return it to a factory state... IE the same version of Windows it was shipped with, along with all the drivers and software it was shipped with. This would reinstall the power management software and chipset drivers to the state they were in when it left the factory, and thus it should work. Again... this is implied by the solutions suggested in the Lenovo Forum. The most unfortunate thing about all of this, seems to be that the best solution (the one that worked the best for those who posted their problems) is getting rid of the laptop.