You can also make a shell script see details here. Explanation for the above command: list all directories, sub-directories, Explanation list all the file and directories recursively ex: 

If there is not a gateway on the traced path, only Layer 2 devices, the IP will not be reported. But Cisco has a utility that works on Layer 2. But this utility is dependent on CDP protocol which : 

Then a series of multiple command are passed using switch to strips all the trailin leaves only what is between and replace each with the rest two command add a few spaces and a The result is something like: 

The file is there and the file is indeed deleted, but in order to see it deleted in explorer, you need to press the F5 button to refresh the screen. Later edit: It seems that this happens only for files This is, how can I reproduce the problem: 

Sometimes the other uptime command display a time that is not correct so I use this command to display the 

But this has the great problem that many user can stop the script and that means they end up not having all the printers available. Can I connect all the available network printers without using the logonscript or the command line app? 

I encountered the following situation: The network I administer was blocked, and this was traced down to a specific rack, after I reseted both switches, everything worked. I supposed it was the core switch so I replaced the core switch. It happened again and this time I reset the secondary switch which practically connects all the stations in that building to the network and it work. The topography simplified is like in the image below. Can this happen, can a faulty secondary switch block an entire network, and how can I detect when there are similar problems and I have two cascaded switches, which one is the culprit? 

If your system is vulnerable, the time and date will display and /tmp/echo will be created. If your system is not vulnerable, you will see output similar to: 

Is this general practice and PTR records can be added only by the ISP companies that manage the IPs, or is just the practice for this DNS provider? 

If I disable again the network I can log in with the old password. If I enable afterwords the network connection I am able to see the domain dns, etc. How to establish trust relationship from this situation without having access to domain control server? 

I am using terminal-service server with Windows Server 2012 and we have two terminal servers share trough NLB, users connect to a terminal in the domain with Remote Desktop Connection (see picture below). I need to map a network drive for the users in terminal to a share on another domain ( which has the domain controller Windows Server 2003). I try creating a GPO in through (domain controller for with Windows Server 2012) to map the network drive. and are physically connected in the same network. How to map a network drive to a share in the other domain () on terminals in the main domain ()? 

$URL$ I don't think I need to dump the full configs because obviously a lot is working: authentication, certs, compression, address pool, connection set-up generally. Does the Amazon VPC simply refuse to forward packets and I should really be on a somewhat-less-virtual cloud to do this? MORE EXPERIMENTS THE NEXT DAY: The VPC clearly isn't behaving like a true layer 2 subnet. In particular, ARP broadcasts don't actually broadcast! When I ping a non-existent IP (say .5) from .180, .58 doesn't see the request. The VPC is obviously optimizing away ARP broadcasts and sending it only to .5, if a .5 has been configured in the VPC via management console / API. Leaving on for a while only shows traffic between the host and the gateway, for all hosts. Further, pinging the broadcast address on the subnet doesn't work at all. This is backed up by the Amazon VPN FAQ. So the VPC is likely refusing to recognizing the unknown MAC address of .129, since it doesn't exist in its own "virtual ethernet switch". I'll probably shift this as the answer in a week or so. To extend the VPC with your own VPN, it must be via the formal "VPC gateway", which is only designed to work as an extension of a corporate intranet backed by a dedicated hardware router and static IP, not the roaming laptop scenario I'm aiming for. 

Routing is obviously OK on the VPN server; I can SSH in, ping around, respond to the VPN request from the client: 

[crickets] I have disabled the Source/Dest. check within the EC2 console on the VPN server's sole network interface. I have set up the IP tables as recommended in the bridging HOWTO, and generally followed these instructions exactly. 

I can ping from both Windows & Mac clients to the VPN server's IP but not to any other IP's on the VPC subnet. (Those other IP's are OK; they are pingable from the VPN server.) When I on the bridge interface on the VPN server it sees the "ARP who-has" requests from the Windows client. However they aren't going onto the VPC subnet! on the destination IP does not see the ARP arrive. The Windows arp cache remains unfilled. (10.0.0.128 is the Windows client; 10.0.0.58 is the VPN server; 10.0.0.180 is the other IP on the subnet; the output below is from the VPN server.) 

I have a bridged OpenVPN setup on a Linux server in an Amazon EC2 VPC. (Spent hours on docs, reading similar problems, here, openVPN forums, no luck yet.) The bridged interface is up and contains both sub-interfaces: 

Not directly possible? I found it very simple and direct with no SQL, regular expressions, or policy mechanisms. In : 

I am not getting an IP in the subnet where the DHCP is working and should serve an IP, I am getting instead only an IP in the subnet (link local address) that is probably given by Windows which runs on the laptop I am using to test this, which makes me think it might be a problem of the network firewall blocking the DHCP Discovery service. And if that is caused by the firewall, which ports I should be opening for DHCP Discovery to work? 

ShellShock is practically a conjunction of more than one vulnerabilities of bash, and at this moment there is also malaware that exploits this vulnerability, so ShellShock can be an issue that is still open, there is a thread with updates from RedHat about this issues. Redhat recommeds the following: Run command: 

I have a print server running Windows Server 2012 which is shared in a domain and is used by terminal services clients. The domain network spans between countries using tunnels and in some situations the print server and the printers are not in the same physical network and in this situations when the network is busy big documents fail to print. If I check the Print Queue Window I don't get very much data on what happens the only available fields displayed are Sometimes Size is empty and Status doesn't give too much information. The only solution remaining is to select from that same Print Queue window and when some print job is stuck that usually doesn't work. 

There are news that an unpatchable and unfixable USB firmware exploit is "out there". This could seem unrelated to servers but since the affected hardware from Phison is not disclosed there is a possibility of devices that are connected to an internal network could be infected or potentially vulnerable. This could be the worst nightmare for a network & system administrator, an ICT consultant, etc. Is there a way to check if a USB devices has the potential BadUSB vulnerability, so that USB devices can be "vetted by the IT departments"? 

I have some virtual machines servers with some micro-services and do some load tests with JMeter. All the servers including the JMeter machine are sharing the same virtual network. The virtual network has no adapters: 

I found a way using robocopy which comes with Windows Server 2003 Resource Kit Tools It has an option that only logs the differences without copying them. The command was: 

I have started with array, but the old HDDs failed one by one and when the spare parts came they where bigger disk inside and I recently ended up with 3 HDDs of .