I've used discord in the past, not so much recently, but I remember having to change my input device so it was using the right device for audio in. Even with other programs like Audacity or Adobe Audition, I've always had to select the audio in device. So check in the settings for the voice channel and see if it's using the right device. Might even try and make sure the microphone is set as the default communication device. Regards, Chris 

It is actually the last tmpfs in the list you provided. If you navigate to "/run/user/1000/" you will be in the smb folder. Or, at least smb connections mount in the /run/user/ folder. After I connected to my smb share, I ran df -h and found that mine mounted under /run/user/999/. Now you can do symbolic links to make the /run/user/ sub-folder go to the /media/ location, but that would look like /media/1000, in this case. I'm not one for writing a script to make changes to the system just for convenience either; so if you need a smb/ftp share accessible at all times, then I would write an entry to fstab and mount to an easily accessible location. 

Now that we know a little more about your situation, lets decide what we want to do to tackle this problem. 

Use the Windows Credential Manager and add a "Windows Credential" credential. Putting only "MicrosoftAccount" is a little vague and I now you're doing it for security reason, but I've never seen it try to use a a microsoft account. Maybe enlighten me as to if it's trying to use an email or your PC name? What seems to be happening, is when it attempts to authenticate, it tries to use your computer as the server, and then whatever username you're typing in as the credentials for that mapped drive. So instead of using the server where the drive and user exist, it is using your computer as the server with the username you have told it to save. So you're going to need to add the server name and account when filling in the username part of the windows credential. That way you are authenticating with the credentials on the proper server. I have this issue at work when trying to add network locations in Windows Credential manager and if I don't specify the server in the username, then it will try to authenticate using our domain name instead of the proper server. Even though I can open file explorer and navigate to the network folder and simply type in a username and password without the server. I found this is the only way that works for me, without getting into cmd. Here is an example of what I mean: 

Then choose the WINS tab, and enable the NetBIOS setting. Mine is at default, so choose to enable it if it's set to default. 

Now, you can try to get into your router and change the WiFi password, because ISPs usually let people have the ability to change passwords and see who is connected to your network, be it wireless or wired. You will want to open command propmt, and run: 

This will return IP address with IP address that are connected, if they're connected, and if the link is established or listening. I've omitted text from my result to show only what is relevant. 

This linked site is pretty spot on with how to get to BIOS from Windows 10, plus has all the images to go along with it. $URL$ Use the first option, if you have access to your desktop, and if not, then use the second option with the shift+restart key. Sometimes you use the function keys to access the BIOS or the other startup options. So maybe try F9, F12, or ESC keys. Those are the keys I usually get lucky with on a new system. 

I don't really follow on the bookmark thing you're talking about, but if you're looking for the similar function of clicking the middle wheel, then Ctrl+left click on a link. This will open the link in a new tab while keeping the page you're on active. There are many keyboard shortcuts for Chrome and it's worth taking a look at their support site under keyboard and mouse shortcuts for a full list. Another one you might like is ctrl+shift+left click which will open the link in a new tab and jump you to it. $URL$ 

Disk manager really won't tell you anything other than the what disk are preset and what partitions you may have. HDD are like cars, it doesn't matter too much how old they're, but rather how many "miles" it has. So what I'm getting at is age doesn't always matter. HDD can fail simply for the amount of I/O, reading and writing of data, that it does. That's not the only reason, but it's not easy to tell why a HDD failed without more evidence . So, it does sound like you HDD is failing, and you did the best thing possibly by backing up your data first. You can try to fix the drive, or you can purchase a drive to replace it. 

Make sure the IP address is not being used on a different device, is what I would check first. Look at your network on your routers web page to see what devices are connected and what IP address are in use. Unless you really need a static IP address, I would use DHCP. Plus, if you have access to the router, you could add the IP address to a DHCP reservation list so that way you don't have to fiddle with static address and the VM will always pull whatever IP address is reserved in the list. If you really want to do static on the VM, then just check, double check, and triple check your settings to make sure everything is correct. Check the network adapter on your VM and make sure the right adapter is selected. Check the advanced settings on the adapter and make sure the Promiscuous Mode is set to: "Allow All" If you're still experiencing problems, try and ping other computers on the local network, for example, your host computers IP address, or try 8.8.8.8 which is Google's DNS server address. If you're not able to ping other address, especially Google's, then you probably have a misconfiguration somewhere. 

Just as a general rule of thumb, defined shares, where the names end with a $, will be hidden from file explorer. You must set the name of the share to end with the $ in the configuration file of the program otherwise it will not work. Plus, security by obscurity is not real security and you will need to configure your share with authentication if you want to keep out prying eyes. However, it's difficult to fully answer your question because we don't know what protocol you're using on your Linux machine to share your folders. Let us know if you're using Samba, or NFS, or whatever so we can better help you. 

I don't know about being able to do this, and in my department, we have to manually install software that has this restriction with the UUID post clone. Like VNC Server. So take a look at $URL$ My IT department has started using this, opposed to having tons of wim files for the various machines and then cloning the image to a partition. You create one image and have the software and drivers you want to install on the server, and smart deploy does the rest! Making for a truly unattended cloning solution! 

That will allow auto mount in Windows and Linux while being about the same as the USB option, but without the USB. This would be useful if you have extra space on your HDD to create another partition. 

This will ask if you want to perform the action on the next reboot since chkdsk cannot check the disk that you are currently using. Choose yes and reboot. This will take some time and should give you more insight into your problem. Western digital also has software that you can download to use a diagnostics tool on your HDD. Download the Data Lifeguard Diagnostic for Windows. I haven't ran this tool, but the manufacturer of your drive does make software to test their HDDs. You'll be on your own so follow the directions CAREFULLY. $URL$ You also have atleast one more option. You can purchase Spinrite from GRC to try and repair the drive. This does take a long time as you have a 1TB drive, but I've used it personally and would always recommend it. It does cost money, but the software is yours to use a you see fit after that. The GRC site has help docs to help you run this program that would be most beneficial to you. $URL$ Regards, Chris 

For example, my test user name, password, and server are: cjohnson Password1234 and \\dev respectively. 

It's perfectly fine to have both wireless and Ethernet adapters enabled and for both to have an IP address. The network adapters have a set numerical priority that will only use one connection at a time, so that probably isn't the problem here. However, your wireless is getting a 169.254.209.231 address, which probaly means it cannot find a DHCP server to get a proper address. When you have this issue, can you see what WiFi you're connecting to? Check out the network settings for the wireless adapter and make sure things are set to DHCP and no static information is set. It's also worth noting that IPv6 can cause issues, so I typically disable the option from the Ethernet adapter. However, I don't believe that is the issue we're having now, but it's worth mentioning. One thing you could do on your computer, at least, would be to disable the wireless so that your computer will only connect through the network cable. This would prevent your computer from trying to establish a wireless connection, which seems to be the problem at the moment. Do you have multiple routers at your house or multiple DHCP servers running at your house? If so, make sure that only one is running so it doesn't fudge the network. I don't know your network setup, but make sure that your devices are actually connecting to your Hitron WiFi by verifying the name of the Wifi that the devices are connecting to. Try and change the WiFi name on your Hitron and reconnect your devices to the new name on the off chance that devices might be trying to connect with saved network information. You could also try and factory reset your Hitron, this would make sure that you're working with a clean slate and would help eliminate options while troubleshooting. 

Maybe a better example would be to go try NordVPN. They offer a VPN solution but also offer a proxy service that acts this exact way when connecting to their proxy servers. I use NordVPN mostly as a VPN, but have successfully used the proxy as well. You should also keep in mind that if you setup authentication for a proxy on a web browser, you typically are given a GUI to setup this information. The example you linked and what I wrote, are usually ran from the command line. 

You have 2 different kind of proxies here, a public and a private proxy. Private proxies are typically a paid service where you create an account and then pay for the services that company offers. Whereas public proxies are available to everyone. There are pros and cons to each, but that is for a different discussion. In the example of the site you linked, they're typing their username and password, of their private proxy account, and then the proxy sites URL. For example: 

Unfortunately, I've never been able to find a good Chrome extension capable of doing that; However, there is a Firefox exttension if you are willing to install Firefox for specific uses like that. DownThemAll! (dTa) is one of the best advanced download managers I've ever used. Might just give it a look and see if it will suffice. $URL$ Regards, Chris 

I'm trying to parse the nickjr.com site, specifically "$URL$ URL for full episodes only. nickjr.com has their site laid out by show title, then by games or videos, at least with paw patrol, so the URL will remain the same until I actually click to play a video. There are multiple video's on the site, but the full episodes have the word "full-episode" in the URL. Example that's not a full episode: $URL$ Example that's a full episode: $URL$ My idea is to use youtube-dl, which does work on their site (tested), to download episodes, but I don't want to download all their episodes because some are not full episodes. So what I'm doing now is going to each video and having to copy the URL, then copy that into youtube-dl. It works, but nickjrs site sucks trying to navigate it. I know web spiders exist, but I wasn't really able to find exactly what I'm looking for and it didn't really make a whole lot of sense. But my plan would be to search the site, and use regex on the URL but only to write the URL's that match the full-episode string to a text file which I could then import into youtube-dl. So, I really need help parsing the site for full episodes only, that can be saved into a text file. Also, I would prefer the program to be compatible with Ubuntu 16.04, but I can also use Windows 10 if need be. 

Check Disk is a built in Windows utility to try and diagnose/repair your HDD and that would be the first option I would recommend. Here is a link to the Windows site for chckdsk. $URL$ However, this is usually what you want to run in command prompt: