I just check to see if the Currently Active slave has changed or not. Also if you are just looking to see if link is lost on one of your NIC's, you can still do that though SNMP or other standard forms of monitoring. 

Depending on how you setup your Postfix you may be able to use an alias to forward all mail. edit Also you can setup a redirect that will do it for you easily. In /etc/postfix/main.cf add this: 

Bind is trying to to resolve ipv6 addresses from an ipv6 server. Is your server configured with IPv6? 

Another service you can use is CAcert.org. They offer free SSL certs, you may want to look at them I use them for some of my certs. 

It depends on what type of Load Balancing you are using, and what you mean by load balancing. If you have some kind of firewall disto such as pfSense, then there are build in clustering and failover solutions you can use. 

What does show? Once you get the kernel names you can just Just make sure you do not purge your current kernel. The results can be unexpected. 

I also tried importing the new certificate into IIS7, after converting it to a pfx file. IIS takes it but I can't bind it. The error I get when I try to bind it is : There was an error while performing this operation. Details : A specified logon session does not exist. It may already have been terminated. Any help is appreciated. 

This has caused issues for the network I support -- using a public DNS. I didn't have direct control over those DNS servers and occasionally the domain clients wouldn't resolve the domain name right. As a result, I would get group policy errors (because it would randomly use the public DNS). It sounds better to set up the AD DNS to do forwarding to the public DNS and have domain clients only use AD DNS servers (or servers properly configured for it) 

Can the Dell Equallogic 6100/4100 replicate databases like mysql, MS SQL 2012, and Oracle 11g? I would like to set up my web applications and their databases in VMWare 5. They would run off the equallogic and be synchronized with another equallogic at another site. Or is it best practice (and safer) to use other means to replicate the databases? My plan is to be able to load balance (and perform DR) between 2 sites each with their own equallogics that have their own up-to-date copy of each of the databases. 

If you server is running some form of linux, try setting a ulimit on the user that generates the PDF's. 

I use Bacula, its free and open and works on Windows and Linux, and has extensive documentation on the linux and windows ports. As for Duplicati, I have never used it so I cant really tell you what do on that, but you that is an alternative. 

I'm using an asterisk VOIP server, and I'm able to make called though with my SIP client. The problem I get is one-way voice. I can hear the incoming voice but the caller can not hear me. I have no problems when using the X-Lite3 windows SIP client. I VOIP provider is broadvoice. Could it be something in the firewall rules that I need to fix? 

I dont know of a web interface to manage squid blacklists, but you may want to look at DansGuarding. It has a very good blacklist and can be edited to suit your needs. 

That line right there tells you the issue. Check your DMESG and see if it's detecting your other disk, also with software Raid I run smartmon on all my drives to make sure they are ok. You could have had your second disk go bad, and you didnt know it. Now to fix this you just need to run this command, assuming your second drive of your array is sdb. 

This happens on multiple computers and retrying yields the same result. Despite the error, the computer is still able to login to the domain ok. The DCs are windows 2003. Has anyone found a way to get rid of this error? Any help is appreciated. 

I have a bunch of servers : Windows 2003 and 2008. I just wanted to export these hardware specs to a spreadsheet: cpus : num processors, clock speed, etc total hard disk space total used disk space computer model I started writing a script to do this via diskpart, systeminfo, and wmic. But before I get too crazy and reinvent the wheel, just wondering if someone knows of a powershell, vb script, or something else that could do this. 

In case anyone is curious. You can try group policy setting: computer config\admin templates\system\logon\always wait for the network at computer startup and logon It does slow down PC startup, but it's helped me get login scripts to work in the past. 

I took over support for a Windows 2008 domain that was set up by another system administrator. The DNS name of the domain is admin.example.com and a web site is also using the same DNS name. The sysadmin that set up the domain never put it into the corporate DNS server. Our windows domain clients work fine if they use the AD DNS. We have been getting by for years with no problem. Now I want to set up a trust with the main corporate AD, but I'm worried that it won't work because the corporate AD will be confused since a web server has admin.example.com. Unfortunately, I cannot replace the admin.example.com DNS record for AD. The website owner is not giving it up. Anyone have any suggestions on how to get this to work without doing something too hackish. Obviously, the corporate AD could just add DNS records for admin.example.com to point to my domain, but looking for a more elegant solution. Port forwarding didn't work for the website (forward port 80/443 to website, all other traffic to AD for admin.example.com). Another AD sysadmin suggested that setting DNS records in the corporate DNS as explained in this article : $URL$ Article seems dated, but it would leave admin.example.com alone for the website and theoretically allow AD servers to work properly with each other and the new corporate AD trust and AD domain clients would continue to work. The article suggest that following records be added to the corporate bind DNS: 

Is there a way I can convert an MBR partition setup to a GPT partitions with out having to destroy all my data? Thanks 

This sounds like a Harddrive issue. Does this happen on all the laptops or just a few? Have you checked the Eventlog to see if there have been harddrive or hardware errors. One easy way to check and see if it's a hard drive issue would be to load up a Live-Linux CD and check for badblocks. Also I forgot to ask what type of hardware do you have for these laptops. That could be another factor to look at. 

What you are creating is a third level domain. This should help a bit. DNS just converts the IP address computers talk into names humans can use easily. The reason you don't have to specify the NS server is pretty simple. You have already specified them for example.com. r.example.com is just pointing to a different IP address. 

You need to create a snapshot of the data and import that in to your slave before you start the replication slave. Typically that is done with mysqldump. On you master check "show Master status", and on your slave check "show slave status". That will give you any errors. And follow what quanta link you to.