A 10 Gb NIC connected directly to a 1 Gb either negotiates a 1 Gb connection, or it doesn't work at all. You cannot have the situation you describe unless you have something like a switch in between, where the 10 Gb NIC connects to a 10 Gb switch port. It is very easy to search and find on the Internet, such as the Wikipedia article: 

When IPv6 was developed, many things were built into it that had been optional, add-on features of IPv4. Link-Local addressing was one of them. Every IPv6 interface is going to get a Link-Local address so that a device can at least communicate on the local link, and, as a built-in feature, many things, e.g. routing protocols, use it for communications on the local link. 

Your question is unclear on what you are trying to do, but I have listed a couple of options for you. You could try something like this to have two separate routers for the separate networks you have defined on the two switches (completely separate VLANs on the two switches, even though they use the same VLAN numbers): Switch 1: 

Usually you would hire an expert to perform a wireless site survey to give you proper WAP quantities, placements, frequencies radio power, etc. You could use business-grade WAPs and a WLC to control and adjust them all. Also, 10 Mbps may not really be enough if all 200 people are trying to use the WAN connection at the same time. You should use something that can tell you specifics. For example NetFlow, or one of its variants. 

You would also need for R2 and R3 to know about the networks on the other side of R1 from them. You can either use static routes (which don't scale), or you can run a routing protocol among your routers. For example, on R2 you can place a static route to the R1 S0/0/0 network, and on R3, a static route to the R1 S0/1/0 network: 

Hubs are not compatible with PoE. A hub will not request power from the PoE-providing device, and it could not pass it on. You only want to use a router if you are connecting different networks because routers route between networks, even assuming the router provides PoE; many do not. You can connect a PoE switch to the WAO (Work Area Outlet). The switch would provide PoE for the end-devices, and the switch would be transparent at layer-2 (unlike a router). 

By using the term "firmware," your colleague is probably referring to the OS version. Cisco has multiple OS versions, and some are more problematic than others. Firmware originally meant something else, but the term has come to mean the code running an appliance like a router or switch. It's not really correct since it is like referring to Windows as the firmware on a PC (the BIOS on a PC could be called firmware). It certainly shouldn't be used when referring to the configuration of the device. 

The standards body, which also provides training and certifications, is BICSI. You must join BICSI. There are then classes, some offered by BICSI, some offered by approved third parties. You take certification tests as BICSI offers them in various places at various times. 

Your router itself needs protection. Any traffic coming into the router for the router address that is not part of the NAPT (see RFC 2663, IP Network Address Translator (NAT) Terminology and Considerations, PAT is a misnomer for NAPT) will be handled by the router. An attacker could try to take over the router on standard protocols (telnet, HTTP, NTP, etc.). If you log access attempts on the ACL, you will see a lot of automated attempts to compromise the router. Don't confuse NAPT with security. Your router needs to be secure. If your router is compromised, it doesn't matter if you have any version of NAT for your LAN, the router has full access to the LAN, and anyone controlling the router will have full access to the LAN. Your LAN needs to be protected by a firewall (either a separate device, or a software firewall on the router). NAT is not security, and your are making a mistake if you assume that. 

By the way, TCP does not know anything about clients or servers. TCP creates connections between peers. The client/server concept is for applications, which are off-topic here. 

Some people refer to the properties (values) of the managed objects as definitions of those objects. That would seem to be the source of your confusion. 

Only use this command on R1, not the other routers. This command will inject the default route, , into OSPF as long as the default route exists in the routing table of R1. The command you have, will unconditionally inject the default route into OSPF. This will get the traffic to R1, but unless R1 has a default route, or specific routes for all the routes on the Internet, this really won't do you much good. You can use this command, but you should also have a default route in R1 to tell R1 to send traffic for routes about which it does know to the firewall. Edit: Based on the discussion on Chat, your firewall has no way to know where to send traffic destined for any networks behind R1. This is because you have removed OSPF from it. You will either need to set up static routes on the firewall for all the LAN networks, or you will need to re-enable OSPF on the firewall. 

You will probably need to configure this on your switch. You will definitely need a firewall between your switch and the WAN in order to protect your network. 

You should consult the source. RFC 793, TRANSMISSION CONTROL PROTOCOL defines and describes TCP, and Section 3.9, Event Processing discusses what happens during processing, step-by-step. There is no simple table of invalid combinations in the RFC, but you are walked step-by-step through what happens in each state when different events happen, including receiving segments with control flags set. If you understand how TCP processes received segments, you could create a table, but that is really beside the point: processing as the RFC specifies will result in invalid combinations being handled correctly as errors. 

There is a CRC in an ethernet frame header which will drop a frame if it detects corruption. IPv4 has a header checksum to detect corruption in the IP header (IPv6 doesn't have this). TCP has a checksum for the entire TCP segment to detect data corruption, and TCP guarantees delivery and out-of-order reassembly. UDP has a checksum, but it is a fire-and-forget, best-effort protocol with no expectation of delivery or reception, so you would need to build that into the application layer if you use UDP. 

Your problem will be that the transport layer protocols will need to be fixed, too. For example, TCP has a checksum that is predicated on the pseudo-header that includes the IP source and destination addresses. Your web browsing will need to use TCP, so you will need to fix the TCP headers. See RFC 793, Transmission Control Protocol: 

is 16 GB of DRAM. Your ASR1006 has 16 GB of DRAM installed. For the , the first number is the amount of memory available to software processes, or process memory. The second number is the amount which has been allocated for I/O memory (interface buffers). On the ASR1000 series, the two numbers don't add up to the total DRAM, as they do on many of the routers, because the IOS is running as a process under a Linux kernel. 

Packet tracer is fairly limited. It is designed to let someone practice for the CCNA exams. It doesn't include all the IOS features, only a subset of commands that are useful for CCNA-level exercises. Packet Tracer is not going to give you what you seem to want. 

As I explained in my comments, CGN and DS-Lite are for residential customers. You should not deploy these to your business customers. Continue to serve your business customers as you do today, but deploy CGN or DS-Lite for your residential customers. RFC 6333, Dual-Stack Lite Broadband Deployments Following IPv4 Exhaustion explains how DS-Lite works: 

You should be able to put in ACLs on the interfaces for Network 1 and Network 2 to prevent those two networks from talking to each other. The ACLs should permit everything else, so your Operator can access both networks with no problem. 

It looks like you have configured as in R3. That means the link between the two routers is down. A route for an interface that is down is withdrawn from the routing table, and the router will not advertise a route that is not in its routing table, so the router will not advertise the route. You must bring up the link, then the routers will advertise the network.