when the count becomes true (when len(q) == 13) the program running on the laptop empties the deque, saving the first two jpgs with the number ten, hence corrupt jpgs; whereas the PI complains with the already highlighted error. see the eclipse screensot of when : 

A streaming server script based on this, that outputs a live camera feed to the web a motion detection script, that detects movement from a camera 

1) stop any use of camera board by anything else, in my case motion: 2) load the driver so the camera board works with opencv: 3) run the modified script: with the lines included: videocap_opencv2_1.py 

Only one of these scripts can access the NOIR camera board at once, so I need a way of passing/sharing each frame gathered to the other script. They both grab the frame from the NOIR camera board using opencv2's ; so i'll have to remove that from one of them and somehow pass the img to the other script when rc is true. As the camera frame rate is substantial, I don't think it's feasible to save the img (numpy array) to a file on a disc that they can both access; but I may be wrong! I've been scratching my head and searching the net for examples on scripts that pass data, but alas i'm stuck. How could I share a numpy array between two running python programs on the same Raspberry PI, and could someone kindly provide me some example code? 

I gave up on trying to control motion the way your're suppose to, so decided to write my own rough and ready python script. It essentially searches through the motion.conf for predefined strings "from strings", then replaces them with "to strings". I call the python scrip using a cronjob to automate the process. Below is the script, if anyone is having the same problems as I did for ages! 

A power button adds hardware / firmware / PCB space / development cost For a budget computer, I suspect cost was the main reason why the PI didn't include a power switch. 

I understand the min temperature specification for a Pi is 0°C, but could I run it outside over a British winter, which has reached 15°C below, without damaging it? Would this temperature cause practical problems in realty? 

I have a script script_1.py that when runs from the command line, it works, but when called by the system it does not. I think it must be being called whilst it's already running. Could someone please explain this line please: 

Can one shedule a then reboot and automatically accept any fixes when connected to the PI over SSH? It's the accept any fixes that i'm not sure if its possible over SSH, but if it is possible, then how do i do it? Ok ive done some digging and found: 

I have my raspberry pi cam recording pictures with a resolution of 1280 x 720, but most of the picture area, is un-important for the intended use. Is there a way of enhancing the resolution, in a small specific area, to give me a narrower field of view with a higher resolution; in effect like a digital lens? 

I'm trying to get opencv2 working on a Raspberry PI with a NOIR camera module. As I understand it Opencv doesn't work natively with the camera module; so I'm following this link to try and get it working. I've installed Opencv on the PI, and I think thats working, but just need it to work with the camera. When I get to step 3 in the above link, which suggests I navigate to the /opt/vc folder and type: 

I'm Trying to get TP-link's TL-wn725n V2 Nano USB adapter working with my Raspberry PI and an running into problems. I've read a few posts, but an getting myself confused. 

I have a python script that copies files from one folder to another on my pi, but is no longer working and i don't know why. 1) I know it is running, because the script sends me an email. 2) I'm not sure if an update to python has happened, but i haven't chained anything on the script and it has been working for weeks. 3) if i manually copy the files on the PI i can see them on another computer via dropbox. Could it be an auto update, if not how can i find out how to fix it? Thanks in advance, Reggie. 

I was wondering if it was possible to control say RPB (Raspberry Pi B) from RPA, using Linux commands. The two PIs are on the same network 192.168.1.static-ip-address. I log into both of them via SSH. I have an Apache server on one of them, which I can, via PHP, run linux commands on the machine that the server is on, from outside my network. I wondered if I could send a Linux command via the same Apache server to the other machine; or would it be better to install a separate server on the second machine? 

Iv'e just installed postfix on my pi and wanted to set it up to send emails via my gmail account. Ive followed this tutorial, but when i do it doesn't appear to install anything, it just says I try this echo 'hi' | mail -s Test , but get error 

I'm trying to understand this script thus have tried to comment each line. Could someone check my comments are accurate, and help me with my gaps in understanding 

1) why don't I get the "image" , regardless of using sudo window when I launch the script via XLTerminal? 2) is there a non GUI way of launching this script, rather than creating a desktop shortcut? 

I have Motion installed on my PI and having difficulty trying to control the threshold via the command line. Motion's wiki suggests that this type of control can be done using cron like this: 

I'm calling this function on my laptop with (python version 2.72) and it works well; but when I move it to my PI (python ver 3.2.3) I get: 

Iv'e just found out what was wrong, the script was hanging at because i didn't have at the top. Oops! 

I too thought there was an issue with the script outputting 127.0.1.1 to I tried: but still I got the same error. I'm using windows 7 too. Yet another edit with a simplified version of the whole script.