This is a very common configuration. You could almost copy and paste from Cisco's LAN-to-LAN IPsec Tunnel Between Two Routers Configuration Example. In your case you have 3 locations and should nail up a full mesh - where each router has 2 VPN tunnels. 

In addition to the OSI model, there is the Internet protocol suite model. The OSI model would place IP networking at layer 3, the network layer. A web browser is going to have components of the transport layer and all layer above it as they include TCP/port numbers functionality, http session, encryption, ECMA/Javascripting, etc. 

The last part of that sentence is inaccurate, namely, "which can be accomplished using a port number." Port numbering is not required for your packet to reach the endpoints NIC card. The port number comes into play within the endpoint (computer) as the packet gets consumed (routed to / unpackaged) by a particular application. IP addressing is how packets are forwarded through an IP based network. That's it. Each router in the path simply has a route to the endpoints address, or it doesn't. 

Nodes reachable via a global IP address are on the Internet. Internet Protocol (IP) is short for the DoD Standard Internet Protocol, RFC 791. The IANA assigns global IP addresses. Note: being on the Web and being on the Internet are two different concepts. 

I do not believe ping will ever work. It is disabled on these security devices by design. As for SSH, it is possible to do from the OUTSIDE - connect to the public IP of the device. You simply need to configure it. Tons of config examples online, e.g. this link. If all fails, reboot the thing and try it then (5 max concurrent connections may be hung sessions?) 

A community name is a plain-text password mechanism that is used to weakly authenticate SNMP queries. $URL$ 

You seem to prefer a link layer mechanism so as to maintain layer 2 adjacency between the sites. A possible gotcha LACP is that the links must be the same speed, layer 2, and the links need to attach to the same switch. If you really need to have layer2 adjacency you can either forego the backup link or figure out a way to tunnel/bridge over IP. In other words stand up a GRE tunnel between your Cisco routers, then configure bridging between your LAN side interface and that tunnel interface. Layer 3 all the wireless links. That would be a clever config, may be pushing the limits of the OS, would enable redundant link usability, maintain layer 2 adjacency, and would be fun to attempt :-) See IRB 

A workaround might be to configure auto-assignment of MAC address to directory number 1000 (for example) to all new IP phones joining the IP-PBX. That way, if the IP of your home phone changes, the new IP addresses will still map to your desired DN. 

Troubleshoot Common Problems with Wireless Bridged Networks, cisco.com The 802.11 family consists of a series of half-duplex over-the-air modulation techniques that use the same basic protocol. IEEE 802.11 WikiPedia 

The codec, the format, and the underlying network determine the quality of the video played out to your viewport/monitor. In case of adaptive bitrate streaming, this quality may change mid stream as the network load changes. Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) uses a network congestion-avoidance algorithm but this does not necessarily result in equal division of link bandwidth. 

Cisco IOS XR XML API Guide, Cisco IOS XR Release 4.1 The k9sec package is required to use the SSL agent. The configuration is rejected during a commit when the k9sec package is not active on the system. When the k9sec package is deactivated after configuring the SSL agent, the agent is not available. 

Configuring Terminal Banners Banners can be customized with the use of banner tokens. Tokens are keywords in the form $(token) that, when used in a banner message, display the currently configured value of the token argument (for example, the router host name, domain name, or IP address). 

The lab environment needs to be able to be torn up, torn down, erased, etc. IP connectivity is going to get messed up. That's the whole idea behind a terminal server and console ports. You might try using something like Docker? 

Are you sure you are consoled in properly? Cisco will replace the switch provided you are the original purchaser under the Limited lifetime warranty. However, the terms of the LLW state for only 5 years from the end of manufacture date which unfortunately has passed. 

JMeter runs on a standalone machine, separate from the application server you are testing (see The JMeter FAQ). "Network Bandwidth Downlink" site:wiki.apache.org - did not match any documents on a Google site search so it seems like you are seeing/using a custom GUI implementation / input. The JMeter GUI would run on a 3rd machine. So, from the perspective of the GUI, Network Bandwidth Downlink would seem to represent the JMeterEngine NIC ingress traffic and Network Bandwidth Uplink would seem to represent the JMeterEngine NIC egress traffic. 

You'll need line of sight to wirelessly bridge your LTE connection from the good spot to your office. You need power and a NEMA enclosure to house your 4g LTE router. You may be able to WiFi bridge with the same router or you may need a dedicated WiFi bridge in that NEMA enclosure as well. In the office, you need a 2nd WiFi bridge to talk to the good spot / NEMA enclosure. This bridge should be a dual mode device that supports bridging and AP modes simultaneously. See Cisco's 801, for example. Find a Cisco reseller in your area or contact me if you need help. You'll probably have to spend a couple of grand to get the initial setup going, then you'll need to pay AT&T for the monthly 4G LTE service. The WiFi bridges and office AP is a 1 time cost. You can WiFi bridge many many miles with line of sight, so bridging distance won't be an issue assuming line of sight. 

The easiest way to find out is to use the CLI and look for the relevant commands. If they are there then it should work. Even if your box does not support that you can do load balancing over parallel links. 

This depends on if you have a block of public IP's (or an ASN) that you want redundant reachability for. If all you need to do is handle multiple outbound paths for your LAN(s), I would use the router - the new 891 and configure it accordingly. If you want redundant (multipath) inbound reachability, that's probably going to involve BGP peering with your ISP(s), unless a single ISP provides both links - in which case they can probably set that up for you on their equipment. 

Ping is a layer3 verification tool. It seems your main concern is your layer2 topology / configuration. In any case, each switch needs to have a default gateway configured if pings are to work across different IP subnets. If all switch management IP addresses are on the same LAN/VLAN/subnet then pings should work without having a default gateway configured. So, what are you management IP addresses on each switch? If they are all 2.2.2.x than ping will work, provided your layer 2 configuration is valid. Lastly, that direct link between SWB and SWC really complicates the topology and what does it really give you? There is already a redundant path between them. My recommendation is to home run each switch to SWB and minimize STP. Get another SWB-B stacked and to dual runs to each IDF switch. Something like below: