How does the Pi know it being underpowered and to show the lighting bolt? As most of us know, if you use a bad power supply you get the lightning bolt telling you are underpowered. I noticed that when I run my Pi on battery, the last 15 minutes or so before the Pi starts to reboot, the lightning bolt starts appearing, and eventually stays there until the reboots, which makes sense because my battery voltage is dropping as it is drained. This got me thinking I could use this to make a program that turns the Pi off when it detects constant under-voltage. I know before this happened would be even better but I am not concerned about that. Is there a command for voltage like for temperature to know what the voltage is? If not how does the Pi know when it is being underpowered? EDIT: This is not a duplicate because the other question suggests you need external hardware. I am pointing out this is not strictly necessary. 

Your question is very broad but a 16x2 I2C display is probably what you are looking for. It only takes four pins because it's I2C and you can fit 32 characters on it which is enough for most small applications. You can get bigger sizes also. 

Actually, I found here that the settings for look are contained in lightdm.conf and greeter.ui. You can completely, change the look of the screen according to your desire without messing with the binary. For example, drawing from the site I mentioned, to change the wallpaper edit the greeter stanza in the config file and add the path to the new background! 

This would ensure that whatever triggers the screen to turn back on from blanking, will also turn the backlight on and whatever triggers the screen to blank will also trigger backlight to turn off. I believe this would include touching the screen. 

This may sound stupid but I am new to Minecraft and when I tried to run minecraft in the terminal it said illegal instruction. Double clicking the Desktop shortcut does nothing. When I try to make a python script that uses the minecraft module(straight from pi magazine) it gives errors about ports and connections being refused. Do I need an internet connection to run Minecraft? 

I believe the default Screenshot application is , but it is a terminal application. Pixel runs scrot in the background which listens for the PrntScreen key. Try opening a terminal and running . Then check in the directory you're in for an image file...your screenshot. 

I have seen some questions on turning HDMI screens off but my question concerns GPIO attached touchscreens. When I run on my b+, the OS(hacked version of Raspbian to work with touchscreen) shuts down. However, the back-light stays on giving me a bright white screen. I assume this is because the 5v pin is still supplying 5 volts to the screen. To fix this I know I could wire a switch in series with the power supply or just pull out the cord but I would like to avoid the extra step. Is there a software solution for this to turn the screen off? 

Gathering from the code on github you could edit the file. The function you are concerned with is the one that contains the boolean blank_timer_expired. 

That is most likely a power issue. Check that your supply is giving at least 5v@700ma. I would recommend more current. Depending on what devices you have attached you may need a power supply with a current rating of 1 amp or more. Also, sometimes those adapters have faulty and misleading labels. If you have a multimeter check the two test points to make sure the right voltage is getting to your pi. 

This is probably very easy to answer but I am still trying to wrap my mind around ARM vs Intel type processors. I understand that you cannot run Windows 8 or Microsoft Word on the Pi because it is an ARM processor. Does Android run on ARM and if so does that mean all apps on Google play would work with the Raspberry Pi(not considering the load on the GUI)? How can you know if something will run on an ARM processor? 

Change the IP to the ip address of your webserver on the dedicated PC. You may not want to re-route https to your server (the third line above) unless you have a certificate. 

See here for better formatting. My goal is to keep the screen and make the Make FM Pirate Radio Transmitter. However, it uses GPIO pin 4 for the transmitter, which is being used by the screen. So, my question is, are there any pins left that I can use for the transmitter because I know not all pins can do the same things. Or, can I use the same pin for two different tasks(I don't think you can but am not sure)? I would like to keep the same performance as would be had on pin four. 

I am running Raspbian Jessie Lite with a custom Xfce4 Desktop Environment installed. I created a file which when run, changes the number in to 0 or 1 depending on what was already in the file so that if I run the script twice it will turn the backlight off and then back on again. I am running the script as Pi user and have tried with and without . 

The Matchbox Keyboard can do exactly that! All you have to do is compile it. To customize it you can edit the file found in . This site shows you how to install it. Each button can be removed, added, or customized. Here is an example of the file listed above. 

I would argue that the Pi Zero would be the best for a remote control vehicle as the brain of the project because it draws such low power, is very small and is not heavy. It has plenty of power to do any computations necessary for the task. However, you would not use any Pi model to power the motors or high power draw components of the project. This is true for the Zero and the Pi 3. You would use a separate Motor board to control it. The Pi tells the motor board what to do based on inputs from a radio receiver module for example. If you have no experience with development boards and coding though, I suggest as C Malasadas did that you get a Pi 3 first to experiment with. Then you won't have to worry about extra adapters just to get a screen working and you will get the full experience. The Zero is more geared toward embedding which is what you want, but the Pi 3 is best to start off with for beginners and prototype on. 

Instead of 12v it would be 5 from a UBEC, and that same UBEC would also be powering the raspberry pi through the GPIO. Would this work? If so, for the transistor do I use an NPN or PNP? I have a PN2222A. Lastly, how do I find which resistor to use for the base of the transistor. 

I installed all these and I also installed blueman interface. I was able to successfully pair my device but when I try to connect it works for a second and then disconnects. It then will not connect again. I have pulseaudio installed already and the bluetooth module for it also. Thank you in advance. Update: I noticed when I run in bluetoothctl, where MAC is the BT address of the speaker, it fails; I then ran and it said: 

So I now I am in this awkward situation where I have to edit this file to alternate between fast boots and the ability to use SSH with my Pi. Does anyone know how I can fix this, to satisfy both conditions? 

Of course, you would replace the "print" lines with the turn on and off preview code. This link above contains a whole tutorial on the topic. Hope that helps! EDIT: To print a different statement each time the button is pressed and switch between statement a and b use this code(its in c++ because I am more familiar with it, but you could convert it to Python quickly.): 

I am trying to call this command: with my own paths. In the terminal it works like a charm but when I run it through the python subprocess module I get this error: 

I have a similar setup and I ran the command . This will bring up a list of options regarding the font of the system, including the size. For the GUI I believe there is a Openbox menu that has options for changing the font size of folders for example. 

I don't believe there is a package named . There is a package named that gives a GUI to the mplayer program. Try . As a side note, I have not found any video player that could playback videos reliably except which was built with the Pi's GPU in mind. 

Solution There certainly is. QEMU is a free simulator that can run Raspbian or any other operating system on Windows. It might be helpful to point out that apt-get does not work how it comes. You can run it on a guest computer because it does not need to be installed and you can learn Linux and Raspbian. Tips 

As goldilocks has said below, the power bank must really give 5v/2A under load and not just charge at that amperage. The following should be interpreted with that condition: It depends on what the Pi will be doing. If you are just running the Pi by itself then it will be fine(The foundation recommends 2.5A but I have used mine with 2A just fine). However, if you have it plugged into a screen, have Bluetooth/Wifi running or are powering some external devices you will need more power. My solution for those situations is to use a 5V/3A UBEC with RC batteries. Whatever battery you use will always give enough current for your project. Then all you need to work about is getting a battery that will last long enough. 

I highly suggest for practicality you eliminate the falling and rising reinstating altogether by using as shown here. You would use and then check the input like so: 

Thanks to @goldilocks, I understand that it depends on the screen having a backlight feature such as adafruit's touchscreen which can be turned off using this tutorial. Most of the time if it does support a toggle-able backlight feature it will be found in the folder and most likely in . See comments above for full dialog. 

One easy way to install offline if you have another computer with internet connection is to install synaptic: .