Is the image a desktop image? If so connect your Pi to your router and find the IP address of it on the routers webpage. Then ssh into it. Enable VNC in raspi-config. Download tight vnc onto your computer and use it to connect to wifi. 

Plug the raspberry pi into your router with an Ethernet cable. Fire the pi up and the lights on the Ethernet module should start blinking. Then goto your routers webpage and insert you username and password. Find connected devices, then use the IP address for your raspberry pi in putty. Another option is to see if the green lights blink for some time after you power up the pi. If they don't make sure you are using a suitable adapter for the micro usb cable. 5V 2.5A for a pi3 If this dosen't work still, then check that your SD card has the image properly installed. I use etcher to burn zip images to SD cards. 

i have tried downloading quake 3 from various tutorials. The ones I have tried are from a post in 2012. Doesn't work for me probably outdated. Tried one from 2014. Was gonna take 1 and a half hours to download a 51.7MB zip file. My wifi is not bad (Max 50mbps, server of download must be really slow.). It stopped downloading 75% of the way for no reason. Anyone can tell me how to download Quake 3 for my RPi3, Raspbian stretch? 

If you have the access of your router, you can set up static IP from your router instead of from RPi. All you need is the MAC address of the USB Ethernet port. 

As per @joan's comment, I also decided to solder the DS12B18 and the pull up resistor direct to the back of Raspberry Pi header connector to make sure verify that the problem is not due to pure join to connectivity (see the picture), but I get the same result. 

1) First since the release of Jessie, many tutorials or past posts of changing the became obsoleted. It was common in previous OS release to make changes directly to the for network configuration. When using Jessie, it will be necessary to make changes through . 2) As mentioned by @Millways, your configuration doesn't make sense. If your netmask is , then both of your routers are actually on the same network instead of what you said on two different networks. Therefore you should check both of your router configurations and provide more information so that others can help you. 3) Since we don't have sufficient information on how your two networks are configured. But in general, if you have two sub networks (e.g. and with an assumption of netmask of ), in order for each network to be able to communicate with the other, you need to setup a static route at router A with settings like (as per your example), and another static route at router B as . These can be done at routers. On the raspberry pi, you will need to setup your wlan0 ssid credentials to connect to router B. Hope this give you a general direction to work it out. 

I just tried watching a youtube video today using smplayer. When I tried to, it logged me out of my Raspberry pi 3 model B using raspbian. I tried uninstalling it using sudo apt-get remove smplayer, but when I reinstall it, it still shows recently watched videos. How can I stop it from logging me out and how can I totally remove it? 

My raspberry pi 2 had a problem sort of like this. I used an 8GB kingston card. I think that you should either and rewrite the image to it or buy a new SD card that is used in car cameras. These support high read/write speeds. 

Very simple way. All you have to do, is download the noobs software from the raspberry pi foundations website, unzip it open the noobs file then copy everything there (not the noobs file the stuff inside it) and paste it in your sd card. 

This regularly happens if you dont place the HDMI cable in before booting up. You just have to unplug the pi, insert HDMI, then boot up again. 

I have zram up and running. Did you remember to chmod the file? Did you remember to add the command to /etc/rc.local? I can see that my swap is working because i have a utility called conky. 

At the bottom of the file before exit 0, type: /home/pi/Desktop/Mount.sh Reboot and the USB drive inserted will be mounted at /mnt/usb This only works for one USB drive inserted. This also dosn't work if you have not rebooted with your drive plugged in. To see if your drive has been mounted or not, goto /mnt/usb. Any data on the USB will be there. There are many ways to mount a USB. Other ways require the USB to be in the raspberry pi at all times. For my method, if a USB is not found, a line before boot will say Failed. 

You didn't mentioned what OS distro you are using. But if you are using Raspbian Stretch, RPi.GPIO is included in default installation of Python 2.7, but it does not seems to be included in Python 3.5 by default, you will probably have to install it either running: 

First, WEP key (i.e. password) only allowed hexadecimal digits (i.e. 0 - 9, A - F) as password, therefore 'hello' is not a valid password, and maximum length for the password is 26 hexadecimal digits (or 104 bits). This is the reason that WEP is not very secure and seldom be used nowadays. If you still want to use WEP, here is what you need to do. Run your editor (example using nano) to modify the configuration of file: 

This happened quite often lately with Raspbian Stretch, somehow running screw up the gateway setting. This can be observed by run the following command: 

I'm not sure this will work but I would try to add in the configuration on Pi zero which basically telling the Pi to add interfaces that you want brought up at boot time. If this is not working, maybe sharing your and on P3 would help to diagnostic. 

If is not your route gateway ip, find out from your router under . The general format for adding a route is: 

switch off bluetooth on pi turn on bluetooth on headphones to make it discoverable turn on bluetooth on pi and connect to headphones Thats it! watch your vids/music. 

First you want to add a folder to /mnt . It needs to be called usb Next, make a new file with leafpad and type inside it: 

Here is how automatically mount a USB drive on boot. This way only works for one USB unless others are specified. 

Thanks for all the help. I found out a way. All you have to do is DONT EDIT the /etc/fstab folder, make a new text editor file, and write mount -a (location point). Then save it as mount.sh and put it in your desktop. Then in terminal type Sudo nano chmod -x mount.sh Then type Sudo nano /etc/rc.local At the bottom before exit code 0 type /home/pi/mount.sh Save it, then reboot. The USB drive if present should automatically be mounted if plugged in before booting. If you forget to place your USB drive before booting, insert the USB drive and double click on the mount.sh file and click run in terminal. Very simple easy way. 

Downloaded etcher. Downloaded zip file of raspbian (you are using Ubuntu, not sure if it will work this way) Plugged in my SD card and burned the zip file to the SD card with etcher. Add a empty file called ssh, make sure there is no extension such as .txt Insert SD card into pi, connect Ethernet cable and micro USB cable. power up the pi, and find your pis IP address on your router page. Open terminal and type: ssh pi@YourIpaddress Change YourIpaddress in the last step to your raspberry pis up address Your done! 

The Relay module in your picture is what so called Relay shield specific designed for directly interfacing with micro controller such as Raspberry Pi or Arduino, the board already consists of the protection diode and switching transistor and active/disabled LED indicator. You can connect 5v, GND, and GPIO directly to VCC, GND, and IN at the shield. To test it out before you applying high voltage source to the Relay, connect an AAA battery (Positive) to the anode of LED, and the cathode of the LED to the NO of the Relay. The COM of the relay connect to the negative of the AAA battery. When you activate the GPIO through program, the COM and NO should formed a closed circuit between the LED and the AAA battery. The green LED on the Relay Shield should also turned on indicating that the GPIO pin is pulled to low. 

Data communication are often serialised and transmit in instead of string. Bytes in python are indicated by the prefix in front of the data as you shown but you are trying to treat it as a as your if statement is trying to compare, you can confirm that the return data are indeed in bytes by by running: 

You didn't provide the full program so it is hard to know what you are missing, but I think you probably setting up the client mix up the client/server relationship. 

I have downloaded recordmydesktop on my Pi and when I record I get a slightly red screen when watching the video. Is there a way to stop this from happening? 

SD card needs to be formatted as FAT32 Use Etcher if you aren't already doing so. Download Raspbian Desktop ZIP file from Raspberry Pi Foundations Download website Don't open ZIP file. Burn to SD card with etcher. Make sure you are using a correct power supply. RPi2: 2 Amps, 5 volts. RPi3: 2.5 Amps, 5 volts. Plug HDMI, Keyboard and mouse into RPi. Turn on monitor and boot RPi. Setup. Want to use NOOBS? Tell me in comments. 

The power bank shoudn't get hot. The raspberry pis core is a pretty small square. As you said there is no ventilation. If possible, place the power bank on top of the older box and feed the cable into the box. 

the topic technically says everything, I will be using Openmediavaults image on the raspberry pi. I will be using it as a home media server(Cause I have a spare Rpi2 doing nothing.) People are saying that the SD card in raspberry pi has a limited life... Now, with Openmediavault, the SD card only holds the data of installs, and boot files and it's sort of like a new raspberry pi with raspbian but not too much data on it. I will be using a 8GB and 2*16GB thumb drives. Can thumb drives easily be corrupted? 

Both way you described (either using a potentiometer as a voltage divider, or connecting a resistor between the contrast control pin (Vo) and ground) are valid configuration. The contrast of the LCD is determined by the voltage (VLCD) between the Vcc and Vo. When terminating the Vo with a resistor to the ground, the internal impedance between Vcc and Vo formed a voltage divider with the external resistor. 

It will make more sense to setup "IP and Mac binding" on your router in your case for whatever reason you'd want to run multiple OS. The procedure varies from router to router, but all you need is the MAC address of RPi eth0 or RPi wlan0 MAC address. run to find out the MAC address, for RPi built-in and when your RPi is connect to the network, the mac address has a prefix of . No, you can't map more than 1 IP for the same MAC. 

As per @Ghanima's suggestion, repost my updated as a separate answer. I've solved the problem by myself by changing the settings from 

mariadb by defaults uses UNIX_SOCKET plugin to authenticate user root. $URL$ It works by retrieving uid of the process that has connected to the socket and allowing to connect to the MariaDB account with the corresponding user name. In another word, if you are running your RPi as user, when you run