You don't have to deal with it. Open it and OS X will ask for your permission. Or like richard suggested, delete it using something like: 

After opening "will-not-be-found.txt" in Text Edit, you'll see the file after all. See also the Spotlight Query Syntax. 

You're confusing the client IP address (172.16.201.232, being your computer) with the server address (172.31.6.52). The error message tells you that your computer is not allowed to connect (or that the password is incorrect). (For MySQL you'd need something like to allow connecting from any remote client. Alternatively, MySQL accepts wildcards in the host name. And as your IP addresses are part of the private range 172.16.0.0 - 172.31.255.255, you might be able to use something like . This will only match IP addresses, not .) 

You'll find most system preferences in , and user preferences in . For OS X most settings files will start with . To view the contents of such files, you need Property List Editor (included in the Apple Developer Tools), or use to convert it. The Energy Saver settings are in . I guess Exposé might be included in the Dock preferences, . Its key bindings are in . I'm not sure if copying the whole files is a good idea; surely you first need to peek into them to see what else is configured. (I think mainly holds the preferences of the System Preferences itself.) 

This is not as easy as it seems. First, to find the row numbers of all occurrences of "L" in column D, you'd use: 

A bit of a side note, but as the way to restore data might be as important as the way to backup: Time Machine not only integrates well with the OS, but also with Time Machine-aware applications like Mail, Address Book and iPhoto. When entering Time Machine while one of these applications is active, you'll see the regular star field with that application (rather than the normal Finder). This even makes it easy to restore messages from email accounts that you've deleted altogether, without the need to know how Mail uses the file system. 

First of all: don't ignore the warning, even when other browsers don't find anything suspicious (yet). When you can wait, then just wait some days until the warning is no longer shown! What you're seeing Microsoft nowadays calls SmartScreen ("Phishing Filter" in IE7; technical details). There's a "More information" link, that you can safely click. You can also get this information manually: 

(Hmmm, re-reading your question, the following will not help you much. Just for the archives then.) You can restore the messages with Time Machine directly without the need to copy the message files yourself. But I don't know about restoring the account settings (and I don't know if this will correctly "connect" the messages with the accounts). So: your manual copy may be easier, but if you want to use the Time Machine interface: just first activate Mail and then enter Time Machine. Instead of the usual Finder in the star field, you'll see Mail. (If you replaced any hardware after the crash: remember you can hold down Option while clicking the Time Machine icon, to change "Enter Time Machine" into "Browse Other Time Machine Disks".) 

Compose key is a great way way to write all these ©–®—… stuff. It's really MUCH more handy than the windows "alt+0169" method. Is there a way to define additional sequences? E.g. I'd like to have "Compose+-->" result in "→" 

setxkbmap way In Linux, is used to switch keyboard layouts. Alas, & can't work together: they reset each other's changes :( You'll have to pick one of: 

Assuming you had [1] and [2] RAM modules and plugged in the [3]rd, try to remove [1] so now you have only [2][3]. If this helps, it can be a power issue/motherboard bug. If not, then [3] is likely damaged: memtest it. To diferentiate 'power failure' and 'MB bug' insert all the three and try moving them around: [1][2][ ][3] and so on: it might work, and point to MB issue. Note that slots order may not be important, so this proves nothing, but gives you a chance :) 

What GUI tools do you advise to improve the usability of Linux for those accustomed to doing system administration the windows-way? Users new to Linux often get confused when they need to configure something: editing a text configuration file may seem hard to them, and they want a GUI to tick checkboxes and just get what they want. A short list includes: hardware issues, drivers, Xorg (especially!), performance, network settings, sharing, user accounts, etc. P.S. I've looked through questions already asked here, and found that there's no real centralized list of applications. Let's unite our knowledge! Community Wiki ;) 

I've read the whole screen man recently, and there's no common way to do it if screen itself can't remember it automatically. 

I have an Apple Aluminium keyboard. To the left of 1 key I have the less/greater (< >) key, not grave/tilde (` ~). does not work for me: layout switching (done with ) resets my xmodmap changes. file does not help either. How do I remap the tilde key? 

You won't be able to move windows and copy text between different workspaces. Do you still need it? ;) I guess the problem is with some top/bottom panels that extend to the second screen, and fullscreen apps? Then check your Ubuntu display configuration. 

I'd like to know which new packages (brand new, not the updated ones) have appeared in my installed repos. Just in case there can be something useful :) I guess it should be a simple bash script to list-sort-diff. But maybe, there're some better solutions? 

Amarok 2 can search through music collection using ID3v2 tag's 'bpm' field. That would be very nice to retag the entire music collection so I can find the 'mood' of the track I like. However I've not found any beat-detection software that could have helped me. Have you ever used one? CLI, preferably. Also I'm interested if there's anything alike for tagging FLACs with the same 'bpm' field. Thanks! :) P.S. I'm aware there's a nice moodbar feature, however it's useless for searching. 

UPD: Sometimes a bug is found in some data-processing software: image/PDF viewers, video codecs, etc. If the bug allows to execute arbitrary code, a virus can enter your system inside the thumbnails generation process: this happens when a virus is hidden within some file's data in a way so it's executed by the buggy decoder. It's a rare case, however. Just keep your OS/software/libraries up to date and you're more or less secured :) 

You can click on the Chrome icon while dragging, to make it open a new window with the dragged file right away†. Also, most keyboard shortcuts work while dragging. Like you can drag to the Dock icon, then hit Spacebar to see all of that application's windows, hit Spacebar again while hovering a specific window to select that, and then stop dragging. Or, while dragging, use Command+Tab to show the application switcher and then drop on the application's icon. Or click on, for example, the Chrome icon in the task switcher to make it open a new window with the file you're dragging. Or, while dragging, use Command+Tab to activate the application in which you want to drop, optionally followed by Command+backtick to cycle between windows of that application, and then release the drag. Or, hit F3 to activate Mission Control, to select the application of choice. 

So: is there any easier way to get the full details for such domain (for only the exact matched domain), using the command line? (Thinking that command line would soon be banned in favour of captcha-enabled web interfaces, this never bothered me a lot. But still, I'm curious...) 

Some info for those who get here given the title of the question: If want to set up your own hotspot, then you might want to have a look at coova.org (derived from the inactive ChilliSpot). 

So, if anyone here knows about it: edit that page! However, that very same Windows section does list other options, some of which apparently "fall back to implementing a FUSE compatibility layer on top of FIFS which implements a SMB server to provide access to other filesystems". I doubt it's useful, but if all else fails then looking at that list might help. It seems that Dokan might be a good FUSE-like alternative for Windows, especially for SSH/SFTP. (And, when really taking things to extremes, one could even use DeleGate as a FTP-to-SFTP gateway, just in case one finds something that only supports FTP...) 

Even when the very quick way from the accepted answer somehow does not work for you, then still no trickery is needed at all: 

I guess this very much depends on the country/region where one's living? (Like is the communal wiring above ground, is the weather causing problems, ...) 

Apart from the powers that come with it, and hence the effects of mistakes, it also comes without any warnings. And it's the warnings that alert you of unexpected things. Like when running a GUI as root: how would you ever know that some malware tried to install itself? 

Above, even removing the extended attribute does not fix that, but using the suffix works just fine. (I am not advising anyone to actually get rid of the security measures.) 

When testing from another location then the route might be different, and then might not be using those two specific Microsoft servers (hence, taking a route through proxify.com might work, when other more direct routes fail). You can test from many other locations using the list at traceroute.org. 

So I guess that Internet Explorer will always be installed on the hard drive, and one can (temporarily) enable it to use it, or to download any other browser. 

Here's another receipt how to choose which of the 2 available cards will the next launched application use. Add these lines to /etc/asound.conf: 

Unmount removes the drive from the root filesystem: e.g. if it was it's no longer there, but you can mount it back. 'Safely remove' AFAIK does the same PLUS if powers the device off so external HDDs stop spinning 

Now, restart X. Yeehaw, enjoy having the tilde key on the correct place :) This command can also help: 

This will create two 'dmix' playback devices: 'card0' & 'card1'. They will allow you to switch between them without problems. Now, put this in ~/.asoundrc: 

Have a look at YaKuake: a very nice terminal that drops down from the screen top, highly customizable and newb-friendly. Enjoy :) 

The latter mapping, , replaces F13-F15 with PrintScreen, ScrollLock, Pause. Use it if you lack these keys :) Choose the section you've got from the command output above, and append the following, before the final of the section: 

I'll give an example. This will search for files with owner=1000 and write them to "uid.list", search for files with group=1000 and write them to "gid.list" and it will skip paths beginning with /proc, /sys, /dev. The advantage of combined conditions is that filesystem is scanned only once. Here it is: 

Possibly, you were infected with a DDoS bot which uses your bandwidth for attacking servers. Try scanning with Avast! — it's free but powerful. If you have a wireless access point — make sure it's protected with a good password, and WPA, not WEP: WEP is weak and easy to hack through. 

Unplug everything and check if it beeps (no CPU should make it puzzled :) ). If not, it's likely a MB issue. Then put the CPU back in, check beeping. If not, it still can be a MB issue. To prove that, try another CPU. Now put the video card back in. Check. Then RAM. Check. try moving the RAM around, try inserting one module in different slots. 

This plays music on the server, but displays GUI on the client ;) "-X" stands for "X session forwarding". Also try "-C" to compress the data, and "-fnN": this makes go background after it asks for password. 

to switch to the second card. Replace all '1's with '0's to switch back. A small script will be handy :) NOTE: In this manual we created several new Alsa devices: 'this', 'card0-hw', 'card0', 'card1-hw', 'card1'. You can refer to them: 

Maybe, your Xorg has lost video driver? Try launching the "hardware drivers" application and re-set it. Without a driver no desktop effects are working. 

There are lots of complaints concerning Wi-Fi compatibility. Probably, you have RaLink chipset or even worse: manufacturers often ignore Linux support, or provide BUGGY-LAGGY drivers (Hey, ASUS!). The Wi-Fi situation is pain in the ass, really... Check these links: WirelessCardsSupported and Linux wireless LAN support and find out whether it's compatible. The most painless solution is to buy an adapter which works like a charm. Atheros chips are VERY good, and here's an excellent Atheros-inside unit TP-LINK TL-WN821N: rather cheap, powerful (20dBm transmitter!), 802.11N and works out of the box. There are more wireless devices that work nice, but I swear this one really works! Cheers! :)