Now.... if those options coincide with the shutdown options that you are talking about, this would be the file to download and install. I'd also download Power Option as well, just to be sure. 

Not enough information. You may be able to, and then again, you may not. I notice you say that your friend has a DV6000 series.. just like you have a DV6000 series, but you didn't get any more specific than that regarding his model. If the specific model your friend has is close enough to yours, in that it uses the same processor family and chipset family (if they both have Intel processors, you should be fine), then it should just be a matter of downloading any missing drivers after the recovery discs have done their thing... and their may not even BE any driver issues... if the models are close enough. However, if the chipsets are different, you may end up hitting a BSOD during the recovery process, or on the first subsequent boot, etc. If we knew your friend's specific model number, we could look up your model specs at HP, and his model specs at HP, and see. Note, you can see that even with the information you provided, we still can't get to the specific model information.... you didn't say whether you had a DV6833us, or DV6833tx. If there are no hardware conflicts, then yes. You can just use your Vista product key after all is said and done. However, since the HP recovery discs use an image of the installed OS and installed hardware drivers (as opposed to how Dell does it, with a Windows installation disc, and a disc of drivers), there could possibly be hardware conflicts that would cause issues. If you did use his AND it's the same version of Vista AND there were no conflicts to the point where you could boot to safe mode to uninstall any conflicting drivers, and then reboot normally to install any missing drivers... then as I said... you could just use your Vista product key after all is said and done. 

You should have your power supply tested. You could purchase a power supply tester, or if you like, I'll edit my answer to provide you with detailed instructions as to how to test your power supply yourself with just a multi-meter, but since you are seeing power issues, and you state you have already noticed voltages where they should not be, you should be testing and suspecting your power supply. Note, I did not just say to go out and replace it. Granted, if you have another power supply, then you could use THAT to test your computer... but I am not saying just run out and buy one. I am saying that yours should be tested. 

Boot the PC from sysprep generalized hard disk. You will notice Windows booting as if it was the first boot after installation, installing default and updating registry. One or two reboots are needed, depending on your system specifications When Windows finally boots up, you will need to enter all information as if this really was a new, fresh installation 

Here is the service manual for the T400. Page 97 deals with the location and removal of the Mini-pci wireless card. It references other steps you must go through first to get to it. This issue was addressed a couple of months ago on the Lenovo forums for a user, and there were two possible areas to address the wireless card power management, and disabling it. 

You can roll back the drivers, or reinstall the drivers now that your updates are done. In fact, Go directly to NVidia and either have it detect your chipset, or pick the most up to date drivers you want to install. There are a couple of options for Quadro (ODE, Performance, etc). You will always get the latest drivers from NVidia, as opposed to Windows Update. 

The greater range for N protocol routers and WNICs is when you are using them together. Thus an N router with a G Nic won't have any greater range than a G router with a G Nic. As always, different routers will provide different ranges... some are just better than others (dual antennae, internal antennae, etc.) You can think back to when G was new and people were still using B protocol devices. It was the same deal. So, in order to get an increased range using an N router, you would have to purchase N Nics for all the devices you were connecting to it... unless you wanted to move your N router somewhere more centrally located, or swap any antenna with high gain units. So, either you replace all your networking hardware, or rework your network setup. 

... again, this is ONLY that specific server running that OS. I'm finding tons of stuff about controlling an RS232 device with a server... not nothing about controlling a server through rs232. 

Unmountable_Boot_Volume is part of a notification that Windows could not properly access the hard drive. There are numerous reasons why the OS would start to boot and then produce this message, or why after Windows had been running you were shown a BSOD with this message. For example, your hard drive could be failing... or the connection to the hard drive could be faulty... or you could have had an infection on the system that interfered with drive access... or the file system could have been corrupted to the point that Windows could not read from it properly... and that's just four possibilities. Now, using the VAIO recovery center to reinstall Windows (assuming you did not just then restore backed up programs and installers that carried infections... or that you did not then proceed to download infected software again via bittorrent) would have effectively removed any potential infection. Providing that you did not reinfect your system, if you had received that notification due to an infection, you should not have seen that issue again. The issue appeared to have continued, however. This would indicate that the problems you face are related to the hard drive itself. This is not a conclusive indication, for the issue could be one of the hard drive controller on the motherboard as well, albeit at a lower probability. If you wish to avoid purchasing a new hard drive blindly, I would suggest this course of action. Download a LiveCD image of some flavor of Linux. I recommend Linux Mint, as in my experience the hardware support is excellent. Burn a DVD from the image, and boot to the disc. Then, once it loads, don't install it on the hard drive. Instead, surf to Youtube, and watch some videos. Since you are booting to the OS from your optical drive and running the OS in Ram, you will not be accessing your hard drive at all... and if your issues are related to your hard drive, you should not experience them. Cost of diagnostic? One blank DVD. I also recommend you download and burn the disc from a different computer. If your issues were indeed related to the NVidia 410M (very low probability), or Ram, then they would persist even after you removed the hard drive from the equation (As booting to a LiveCD essentially does that). In Short... is it the Video Card? Most likely it is not the integrated video controller on the motherboard. 

Is this a good thing? As you can see... not really. It's kind of Toshiba's way of saying softly that they don't really support Linux. The advice in Eric Leschinski's answer is very relevant. The leading edges of the heat sink on the end of the cooling tubes (it's an assembly to shunt the heat off the motherboard completely) work like a lint trap in a clothes dryer. All it takes is time... every laptop will eventually build up a layer of lint between the fan and the heat sink. All temporary solutions aside, the only real way to clean a laptop cooling channel properly is to remove the fan, and remove the debris. Otherwise, blowing air into the exhaust just breaks the debris into chunks, which sits in the fan until it is turned on... which pushes the chunks back against the heat sink. So... have the laptop cleaned out, and cross your fingers. It might be enough to stave off the overheating. 

(from sevenforums.com) Now that you have a shortcut to it, you can use the Slickrun setup. You go into the Setup, and then into the Magicword Editor. You create a new MagicWord, and have it run the shortcut you just created. 

Sawdust's comment is right on the mark, and probably should be created as an answer. The first thing you need to do is replace your PSU. Then, and only then, should you return to monitoring the temps on your processor and video card. At that point, once you know your voltages are where they should be, can you know if those skewed voltages were causing the card to operate incorrectly, and run hotter than it should. There is a smaller chance that the issue is your motherboard itself, but replacing the power supply and examining the voltages again will determine if this is the case or not. If you had another working power supply to swap in just for testing purposes, this would be ideal... but honestly, it can't hurt to get a new (and possibly) better power supply. But PSU first, re-check voltages, and then recheck temps. After that, you can start looking at the card itself. Yes, it is definitely running hotter than it should, and it wouldn't be the first time I had seen an EVGA card start to run hot after a few years... but since you know your PSU is suspect, that's where you need to be looking first. 

Since that laptop uses AC'97 audio, did you try the Windows 7 Realtek AC'97 drivers? If not, download them from Realtek Here (if for some reason that doesn't work start here). Don't forget though... as I stated at length in my answer to your Video driver question, you may still be disappointed. You can't expect all hardware manufacturers to continue to support hardware after a decade of creating new and improved stuff. 

Diagnostically speaking, if these things are true, I'd say the issue is with either the modem, or with Comcast. I realize you performed speed tests, but speed tests use small files that could be completing their transfers. You have noticed that after a download has started and been allowed to run for a short period of time, it will stall. There is some transfer of data. Your connection appears to work in bursts, which would allow a speed test to appear normal, provided the small files it uses transfer in those small bursts. You could simply request a new modem, or you could request a Comcast technician come to your home to repeat your simplest test... a single device connected directly to the modem. Even a marginally competent technician who was suspicious of the device you used for the test should be able to repeat your results with his own equipment. 

This is something I do all the time. If you have to worry about whether or not you will be soldering, then your level of knowledge is such that you would not consider this to be an "easy" task. When I examine images of this DC jack, there are multiple pins that will require soldering. This means you will have to take apart the Samsung, remove the mainboard, de-solder the existing jack, and solder the new jack into place. Since there are multiple pins that need to be put into place, it means that you will have to either DESTROY the existing DC jack to be able to de-solder each pin individually, or you will have to heat each pin and move it out slightly, going from pin to pin until you have removed all. To make this task slightly easier, I use a soldering iron with a fork tip. I had to make one by grinding down a chisel tip to expose the copper core, and then allow the copper core to melt away. This allows me to have a tip that I can place around a pin to heat it more quickly and evenly. I can then push that corner of the DC adapter away from the motherboard slightly, and move to the next pin to repeat the procedure. If you were to attempt to RUSH this process, you would most likely remove the tin sleeve that is within the hole on the motherboard, that the pin is actually soldered to. Removing this tin sleeve will render that solder point essentially useless. The fact that I know how to do this well, and quickly, is also why I get $45 an hour for my soldering work. Granted, I could get more, but I have no overhead, and I try to be nice. You could ALSO get a 1200 watt (1000F) air paint stripping tool like One of these. I actually use that same exact model to remove multi-pin surface mounted chips. Solder melts at around 840 F, so if you take tin foil, and place it over the motherboard, revealing ONLY the pins for the DC adapter, you can use that air gun to heat all the pins at once, causing the DC jack to just drop off the board. Of course, this technique is not without dangers... if you do not properly shield the rest of the board, you will melt the solder on any other exposed contacts.