I couldn't find any information in any Cisco docs and that doesn't recommend combining these commands. I did find this thread in which a Cisco employee has contributed to saying that one can mix them and it is recommended: $URL$ BFD is performing rapid link down detection. When that happens the link will go straight down. When the link comes back up, the carrier-delay will hold it back from being signal as UP to the routing protocol for 5 seconds. Dampening is also enabled such that if this link continues to flap and violates the damping threshold it will be supressed from being signalled to the routing protocol(s). It is recommend you tune the damping values to your needs: $URL$ 

I have the following lab topology and I am using the below configuration on the 1841. What I want to achieve here is reserve 1000Kbps of bandwidth for traffic between the voice VLAN and the remote VoIP provider across the Internet (lets pretend; 10 users, each needs 100Kbps of up and down bandwidth for RTP, and they all always use the phone at the same time). 

I am trying to apply policy based routing directly to the fa0/0.20 sub interface to force all traffic via WAN1, fa0/1. My understanding is, that because there is a more specific route than the default route received by DHCP on fa0/1 in the FIB, it overrides the PBR and traffic from fa0/0.20 to 1.2.3.4/24 is still using WAN2, fa0/2. Or at least, I believe this to be the case when using "set default interface...". If I were to use "set ip next-hop" for example, this would force the PBR to take precedence, but WAN1, fa0/1, receives an IP by DHCP and is thusly changing :) As a side note; There are actually many static routes via WAN2, so I don't want to reverse the situation and policy route fa0/0.10 via WAN2 for specific subnets. The config there is more complex than I have let on, long and short of it is though, it is not viable to change that. Additionally, if there is a better way to tackle this problem other than PBR, I'm all ears. I am fighting with this method because it is the best solution I am aware of. Update Added a spectacularly drawn topology diagram 

I'm on a consulting engagement with a new client whose network infrastructure is comprised of slightly non-standard equipment. During discovery, I inquired about the switching equipment and network topology. I was surprised to find that the main switches were running Debian, in the form of Cumulus Linux, atop Whitebox switch hardware (Edge-Core AS5610-52X). 

The infrastructure is relatively small, but needs to run some critical public-facing applications and will also be moving to a VMware vSphere virtualization solution. I'm in the picture because the environment hasn't been documented by its previous on-staff sysadmins. I'm working on my list of recommendations/risks, and I can't shake the feeling that the Cumulus Linux and Whitebox switch combination isn't a good idea. Granted, I come from a Cisco/HP/Arista background, but is it reasonable to suggest that the relatively low mindshare and vendor presence is a potential operational risk? Is the Open Network Install Environment (ONIE) really gaining traction in the Network Engineering space? Is it the best choice for an environment that doesn't have the staff with the knowledge to maintain it? I'd appreciate any thoughts on this. 

I'd use a patch panel protector if port security was a real issue. Of course, this depends on the access needed, frequency of physical port changes, and the composition of the rest of the rack/enclosure. 

What's going on with this unit? The 5512-K7 should have 250 VPN peers. Is there something wrong with how this ASA was deployed? 

Ciscocmd is another option like RANCID which has already been mentioned; $URL$ Alternatively you could use SNMP. You can send an SNMP write to the device with the location of a config server using an TFTP URL or HTTP URL and setting the "Pull config" option via SNMP; $URL$ $URL$ 

The scenario you are asking about will not work. The answer is in the name - "multimode" fibre carries multiple modes of light. "Singlemode" fibre carries only a single mode. So you can not carry multiple modes of light down a fibre that only supports a mode. You can use multimode fibre to connect singlemode interfaces but this will only work over a short distance. Soon you will encounter some sort of dispertion so its not really recommend but it will work as a last resort. 

If my understanding is correct, R1 has generated labels for each FEC and R2 and R3 send R1 their LDP bindings (each MPLS label) for every MPLS FEC they have. Using this information R1 (for example) performs a lookup for traffic towards 10.0.0.6 and PUSHes the outgoing tag 25 before sending the the MPLS tagged packet towards 10.0.12.2 (R2). A few questions arise here for me; 

By far the best packet and traffic generator I have come across for Linux is PacketETH; You can use it via CLI or via GUI. It is for generating Ethernet frames but you can also specify higher protocols such as IPv4/6, and TCP/UDP etc. It's very powerful letting you customise pretty much all header options for protocols in layer 2, 3 and 4 (so Ethernet, IPv4/6, TCP/UDP) directly. You can send any higher layer protocol really though, not just the per-programmed ones as once you have created an Ethernet frame you can then write in the payload which of course could be the header and payload of any other higher layer protocol you like. If you use Linux you should have it, almost know one seems to know about it and it's so powerful! You also have features like saving the custom packet designs you create and re-loading them at a later date. Also you can and send "batches" of them which is what you want in either a burst of 1000 packets (for example) or at a constant rate of 2Mbps (also as an example). 

Twisted-pair copper wire systems attenuate electrical signals due to factors including the interaction of the signal with the copper in the conductors as the described by the level of resistance or impedance in the wire, and the tendency of the signal to radiate, or spread out, from the wire. Attenuation is sensitive to carrier frequency. Higher-frequency signals generally attenuate more than lower-frequency signals. The phenomenon is not unique to copper cable, but also generally holds true in fiber optic systems, as well, although the measurement is in wavelengths, rather than frequencies, i.e., longer wavelength signals (lower frequency) signals attenuate less than shorter wavelength (higher frequency) signals. 

Yes, I totally agree with Law29. It seems that you are only changing the length of the cable, so actually you do not need to determine whether you need multi-mode or single-mode fiber cable. The mode of the fiber has to correspond to the mode of the optical equipment that you're plugging it in to. In other words, you still have to use the same mode cable as you used before. 

In my experience the signal strength shouldn't change only the speed. When more devices/users connect to the router you will start to see a performance decrease in terms of Internet speed because all the devices will be sharing the same Internet connection at the same time. 

SFP+ optical transceivers can support 1 GbE operation. They support 1GbE and 10 GbE dual rates and can be configured for 1 GbE 

I am setting the BGP MED value on some out bound routing advertisements but I can't find anyway to check the MED on my advertised routes on Cisco IOS XR, to verify my configuration is correct (in this particular case the routes are sent to an eBGP peer, I am not able to see or ask how they are receiving the routes): 

In this topology I have a full mesh of MPLE-TE tunnels configured. Below is the R1 configuration but all nodes are the same just with the IPs changed. I want to test FRR between R1 and R3. Under Tunnel3 on R1 (and Tunnel1 on R3) I have one dynamic path configured (I'd like to follow the IGP in this example). Looking over Cisco documentation for MPLS-TE FRR at lesat one explicit path seems to be in all examples I can find. If I add a 2nd path to the tunnel interface on each router (R1-Tu3 and R3-Tu1) that is also configured as can I use FRR, and how? I don't know how to configure FRR without an explicit path (only theorise how it might work but my mental hypothesis seems sup-optimal - which is why I'm not sure its even achievable). 

The routers are only showing the routes connected to their local interfaces as your two subnets have overlapping addresses. Router 1 is missing on of the subnets though. This is likely a config mistake;