I have a Mac Pro system with dual upgraded NVidia 8800 GT cards. I'm running quad monitors. The center one is a 30" at 2560x1600 and is flanked on both sides with dual 24" 1920x1200 offset down 300 pixels to match the physical arrangement. Finally, I have a Cintiq 21UX at 1600x1200 off to the right side. Just did a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.10, then ran all updates, and finally grabbed the updated NVidia driver. Configured via the NVidia utility, then did simple renames so I know what I was looking at. However, I can't get the configuration to properly work. The most I can get is two monitors going but as soon as I try to enable three, things start getting weird, rendering in the wrong place, ghost mouse clicks half a screen away from where they really are. If I try four monitors, then the UI doesn't even come up... just the desktop with Nautilus menus but no launcher, clock or anything else. Here's my file. Anyone see anything wrong here? I don't and I've been battling with this for the past eight hours. 

(The USB flash drive is listed as disk 1, and within it, lists the 64MB partition as partition 1 with no other partitions.) This sequence results in the error message:"There are no partitions selected. Please select a partition and try again." What would be the correct way to wipe and reuse this USB flash drive? 

If all else fails, you can send your drive off to a professional recovery service. Typically, at minimum it costs $500 and can go upwards of $2,000. Here is one of the reputable ones (this used to be the company named "Ontrack"): $URL$ The bottom line is that for professional recovery services it all depends on how much that data is worth to you. 

I have a Word 2010 document that is being shared and revised among several coworkers. At the top of the document is the revision history section and all edits I make cause a strikethrough in the prior text, to show that I've modified it. I'd like to break off a copy of the document and make fresh mods to it without the revision strikethroughs. Is it possible to do this? 

Turns out this was operator error-- my virtual PC had pointed its CD rom device to the original Win 2008 R2 ISO I had downloaded, when I thought I had repointed it to the DVD I had burned of regular, 32 bit Win 2008. Once I corrected that the install went smoothly. Sorry for the trouble everyone. 

As for SSDs, they're only limited by the number of write cycles they can perform on each cell in their flash memory. Theoretically, SSDs can last many, many years longer than HDDs since there are no moving parts. 

There's a difference between regular ol' subtitles and Closed Captioning. Producing true closed captioning is extremely difficult. The only software I've stumbled across that does closed captioning and doesn't cost a small fortune is QuickTime Pro. Relevant links (some content is duplicated): PDF link: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ Interesting side discussion on CCing: $URL$ Discussion on converting DVDs with CC to MP4 with subtitles: $URL$ 

Note: I'm not asking how... I know that. I'm currently using Paragon Software's drivers which let you access all drive formats from all OSes (e.g. the Linux drive from OSX or the OSX drive from Win7, etc.) I'm specifically asking which is the best and why? For instance, I want to share a data partition for documents, music and even my Dropbox account between all three OSes and I've done that between Win7 and OSX by throwing it on a NTFS partition. Just wondering now that Linux too is in the mix, if its better to set up HFS+ or linux format instead? I'd love to share a user directory between all three, but I'm pretty sure permissions will make that impossible. However, I'm not sure. Again, to be clear though since I'ts brought up so much below, I am not asking for compatibility with the OSes as far as access is concerned. I have Paragon's drivers for all OSes to read and write to all formats. Again, it's a question of which format is best, and why. 

I've tried this on an HP inkjet and Konica Minolta MFC, so it's not printer or brand specific. I've also tried on different computers, which offered no change in results. 

A new 6-cell? Around 2-3 hours. A new 9-cell? Around 3-5 hours. It depends on your use, your power settings, screen brightness, the hardware you have installed, and what external devices you have attached. Yes, battery capacity decreases with age and use, and is dependent upon those two factors. It varies as to how much of a decrease you will see. 

The pasted copies...well, if those are corrupted, there are some recovery tools that can help, depending on the filetype and damage done to the file. 

I have a Mac and PC that I need to share the USB keyboard and mouse connections with. They each have a separate monitor. I think a regular KVM switch is overkill because of the separate monitors, but the USB switches I've seen appear to only allow for one device to be split-- I've looked at Amazon and other reputable dealers and haven't seen different at least? Will I need to buy two USB switches, or are there creative ways I can share the keyboard and mouse via USB with one switch? 

Thanks for your help. I swapped out the memory and the same thing still happened, and NirSoft didn't provide any grand illumination on the problem (not its fault, it's a good piece of software, but the diagnostic info supplied in the dump files were of little use). I also disabled all networking hardware in the device manager, but nothing changed. Also disabled various services but again, nothing different came about. In the end I did a repair install of Vista and things are working fine now. With that in mind, is there a log kept somewhere of the repair procedure, so I could see if Vista discovered anything unusual during the pre-repair diagnostic it ran? Bit of a black box as to what it did to fix things. 

I've tried a manual uninstall for chrome, cleaning the registry with ccleaner, running the installer as administrator, and starting from scratch by installing XP SP3 again. Any ideas? I didn't encounter this issue a few months ago. Is there an older version of the alternative installer still available? 

The Adobe Reader 9.3.0 download from Adobe's site isn't the latest available version. Try checking for updates under the help menu and see if updating to 9.3.3 changes anything. You can also try an alternative PDF reader, such as foxit (which has a PDF plugin for chrome). Were you always running the beta version of Chrome, or did you just upgrade now to see if it addressed the issue? 

I'm using Vista 32 bit on my home box. I have Microsoft Virtual PC 2007 installed. I also have Windows Server 2008 on a DVD. Not Windows Server 2008 R2. When I try installing Server 2008 on a virtual machine, I get a message telling me my CPU is not compatible with 64 bit mode and can't load a 64 bit application (can't remember the exact message.) My CPU is an Intel quad core from 2008, which I believe can handle 64 bit apps. What's more, why would I get this message if I'm installing 32 bit Windows Server 2008? 

Microsoft's Terminal Server protocol RDC supports a virtual display architecture which means you can set your client to whatever resolution you want regardless of the physical monitors on the server. I'm trying to find out if there's a way to achieve the same thing on a Mac. I know that OSX natively supports VNC (via the sharing preference pane) but VNC is basically just a remote frame buffer which, to my understanding, means it always will be at the resolution of the server's physical monitor, so the only way that I can think of would be to install a virtual video card where I can set a higher res, then VNC into that. Such a thing would also be helpful to connect to a 'headless' Mini or similar. So anyone know if there are virtual video cards? FYI: My reason for this is I'm accessing an 11" MacBook Air from a 30" desktop so there is a lot of wasted space. Again, don't have this issue from RDC on Windows as I can set RDC to use the native client resolution regardless of the server's physical (if any) monitors. 

I have a PDF file that contains a number of long columns. No chance these will fit on an 8.5x11" page, even in landscape, without some wrapping issues. Excel has a fit to print option whereby the final product is shrunk to fit the width of the page. The fonts can get small but you do end up with a document that won't wrap when it's printed out. Is there something similar I can do for PDFs? 

I had to reboot my Windows 7 box, and had two Chrome browsers open, each with about 10 tabs. When my box restarted, the last tab set I closed reopened when Chrome came up, but when I opened another Chrome browser the same set was the only on in the "recently closed" selection at the bottom right (Chrome version 20.0.1132.47) Is there a way to reopen that older tab set in Chrome, some history section I can look at? I have no recollection about the individual tabs in the browser window.