The way to find this out is to first format a cell with your preferred format and then press Ctrl+1 to Format Cells and select the Number tab. Then select Custom category and the Type field should be auto-filled with the existing format string. 

In Excel 2007 or later you can convert your range to a table by selecting the range and pressing Ctrl + L. This will work best if you have the first row containing column names, let's say in this case "ColA" thru "ColE" and specify "My table has headers". Once you have a table, you can add a new column immediately to the right by typing into cell F1. Then in cell F2 type followed by Enter and you will see the formula autofill down the column. Now as you append rows to the bottom of the table or insert new rows inside the table, the formula should autofill. 

Select the Line tool. You'll see a tool bar option called "Geometry Options" (it looks like a down arrow next to the Custom Shape tool). Select Geometry Options and you'll see the Arrowheads options. This will only affect new lines, not existing ones. 

Try selecting two cells containing consecutive dates and then drag the black dot. Autofill needs two values to determine the correct trend. 

To create an anaglyph you need TWO images/photos depicting a scene from two slightly different angles. Photoshop tutorial available here. 

Enter "Male" in the first cell then select it and all the cells beneath it you want filled, then press Ctrl + D to fill down. 

You could a use a few lines of Lua to acheive this. Lua is available on a wide range of platforms including Windows and Linux. 

Auto-fill can't do what you want. Use with the correct mixture of absolute and non-absolute cell references and then auto-fill down and/or right will work nicely. So in the slightly modified example below, cell C13 would contain: 

For Windows there is By default, just displays directories. The option displays files within each directory as well. 

Short answer is no, you can't convert it. You'll need to backup, destroy the mirror, create a raidz and restore the filesystems from backup. ZFS supports adding drives to pools without upsetting the original data but you cannot change the configuration (mirror, raidz, etc.) of existing drives in the pool. In your case you could (although I don't recommend it) add the third drive to your existing pool and the extra space would become available to all ZFS filesystems in the pool but you wouldn't have redundancy on the entire pool. You could add two drives as another mirror to the same pool and then you'd have additional space with mirror redundancy across the whole pool. I have run raidz (home use, not production) in the past but I now prefer mirrors for their simplicity and performance (particularly on scrubs), despite lower usable capacity. 

Convert your data range to a table and add a totals row (Right-click -> Tables -> Totals Row). By default this will display the but you can easily change it to a range of other functions, including . Then apply a number filter to the table column. Edit: (Reply to comment) 

It saddens me to say it, but the market doesn't demand it. If demand was high enough for manufacturers to make them profitably, they would. Until then, it will remain a niche market with niche pricing. Many users are quite happy with low-res screens with large icons and fonts. On multiple occasions I've set users' screens to optimal LCD resolution only to have them come back to me and request I change it back down to the low res, blurry version because it's easier for them to read (or simply familiar with). 

Try creating a link to the file using at the command prompt. I haven't used it in your particular scenario but have used it to successfully to gain access to a browser's temporary cache files whilst locked. 

In the above example, found two files called You can use wildcards in the name (remember to put the name in quotes, eg. ) and there are many other options to narrow your search. For more info in the command: 

The Firefox addon Web Developer supports resizing the browser window. There are a couple of default resolutions and you can easily add more. 

Have you tried Excel? It handled CSV files. I'm not sure of Excel 2007's file limitation but Excel 2010 64 bit now supports spreadsheets up to 4GB in size. 

Illustrator supports SVG files which are text (XML) files which can quite easily be generated by a script/program or even manaully with a text editor. They're certainly easier to generate than Illustrator's binary AI file format. However, if your text requirements are complex (multiple paragraphs) then SVG might not suit. But titles and brief descriptions beneath the playing cards should be quite simple to implement. If you want to add images to the SVG file you have the choice of linking to the original files or embedding them within the SVG file (base64 encoded). 

Disclaimer: I work for a HDMI cable manufacturer and HDMI Adopter. The following answer is provided by our managing director/cable designer. 

Is the image you are trying to rotate using indexed color? If so, try converting to RGB color before rotating. 

Explanation: This works by using the day (col A), the month (row 1) and the year (cell A1) to build a date string, then convert it to a real date (using the DATEVALUE function) and then determining if that date is a Saturday or Sunday (using the WEEKDAY function). Note: Tested in Excel 2010 

I'm not familiar with WinRAR or 7-Zip but a quick look at WinRAR's online help suggests you can use the and flags to direct compressed output to . You can pipe this to the utility which is standard on Linux and MacOS and available for Windows as part of the Windows 10 Windows Subsystem for Linux or the GnuWin32 utils (see the package). For example: 

By default, returns entire lines which contain the pattern, not just the matched pattern. You can use the option to display only the matching text. And you should use a non-greedy search so you only match to the first period after search term. You'll need to Perl syntax () for that with the modifier after the . Try something like this: 

Drivers are what affect compatibility. You will need to make sure you have Windows 7 drivers for all the components that require drivers. Windows 7 has very good driver support but you may need to obtain Windows 7 drivers directly from the PC maker (Dell in this case) or from manufacturers of the internal components. As @Sim has also pointed out, you may be able to use Vista drivers if you cannot find Windows 7 drivers. Also, depending on whether you're using a 32 bit (x86) or 64 bit (x64) version of Windows 7 you will need to find 32 bit or 64 bit drivers. 

Imagemagick's utility will do what you want. You need to specify the option, where the indicates to cut/crop. You can find usage examples here. 

Here, P2 defines the type of image (Portable greymap in ASCII), the next line defines the width and height and the third line defines the maximum grey level. The remaining lines are the actual image data. PGM is one of the Netpbm formats, which have surprisingly good support on most operating systems and graphics applications due to their very simple formats. 

Type at the Command Prompt for full details on usage. And remember, if using variables in a script you need to use %% instead of %. 

A Illustrator file will still be an Illustrator file even if you change the extension to PDF. Extensions don't really get turned on/off in Windows - they are still there, just displayed or not displayed. If you have extensions turned off and you add a extension to an Illustrator (.ai) file, you are really renaming it to Windows only looks at the last extension to determine the file type. So nothing has effectively changed. 

This is an environmental variable in Windows. The most commonly known one is PATH but there are many others. You can find out what variables are set by opening the Command Prompt and typing . If %System% is defined on your XP install (it is not on my Win7 install) then you should be able to type it into your Explorer bar or Run... or at the Command Prompt and it will translate to the correct folder. 

You need to omit the shell: part since you just want a file system location and you'll need to enclose it in quotes to handle the spaces in your folder name: 

You haven't provided any evidence of being hacked other than your password does not work after while. Does it work immediately after you have set it to something complicated (20+ characters)? I would suggest testing with a simpler password (10-12 characters) based on my following experience: My modem/router has a maximum password length of 15 characters and silently ignores the extra characters when setting the password, but not when logging in. So if I set a password longer than 15 characters it appears to be set correctly but I can't log in with the full password, only the first 15 characters of it. Your modem/router may have a similar limitation on password length. 

pv - Progress bar for long commands is probably new to you. It provides a progress bar for any program that can accept input from a pipe. To install (Ubuntu) 

and the press Ctrl + Shift + Enter to enter it into the cell as an array formula. If you do it correctly, you'll see the formula enclosed in curly braces by Excel. 

You could get a mouse that supports horizontal scroll. Or if you really want a keyboard shortcut, you can use Control + Left / Right to move a word at a time, which is faster then plain Left / Right but more granular then Home / End. 

The process you have described should yield identical pixel data but the metadata (such as a timestamp) might be different. The TIFF Specification defines how metadata and image data is arranged within TIFF files. If you want to do a hex comparison then I suggest you convert both the TIFF files to a much simpler format (eg. PPM or Photoshop Raw) and compare those instead. That way, you're comparing the pixel data and not the pixel data + metadata. 

This method has the advantage that you can selctively edit the layer mask in case you do not want to erase along the entire path. Note: If you want to erase the background using this method, you'll need to promote it to a layer first (Layer -> New -> Layer from background)