If you already use firewalld, then you should have fail2ban also use firewalld. There's no point in having it use iptables directly in this scenario. Not to mention that has much better performance for large ban lists than . 

NPM isn't packaged for EPEL 7 yet. Give it some time, they are having to update thousands of packages already and had to wait for the CentOS release which was just a couple of days ago. I suggest contacting the package maintainer (who appears to be patches) as they may not be aware that CentOS 7 is released and that they can now build their packages for it. 

You've installed some packages from a newer version of Ubuntu, or from a third party PPA, which conflict with the Ubuntu version you originally installed. To fix this problem: 

Your Apache configuration is broken. Specifically you have a file which is trying to use directives provided by Phusion Passenger, which you haven't yet installed! Move this file somewhere else temporarily, then run the installation. Once the installation is complete, you can move it back if necessary. 

You originally installed PHP from the remi repository, but you forgot to enable the repository when adding this package. To fix the problem, re-enable the repository, either temporarily: or permanently by editing . 

Sounds like your domain is parked. Both of those IP addresses are registered to Netissime, which seems to be your registrar. When you actually set up your own web and email services, you can change those records to point to your own servers. 

That's happening because you don't have a file named . Since you put it in quotes, the entire string is being treated as the argument. Try removing the quotes. 

It appears that you had the puppetlabs repo for EL6 installed, then removed and replaced it with the repo for EL7. But yum still has cached data for the EL6 repo. Just clean it out and try again. 

To make this also apply to Windows XP and older computers, you also need to set the wallpaper in Active Desktop settings. This is documented in Microsoft KB327998. 

You also installed some packages from the repository, but you disabled -- and removed! -- that repository. I'm going to guess that you actually want to keep the newer version of MySQL that you got from remi, and advise you to put the repo back and enable it. 

Which appears to be completely gratuitous and unnecessary, as OpenVAS doesn't run confined by SELinux anyway. 

Red Hat doesn't distribute MP3-enabled packages due to patent and licensing issues. You can find the necessary packages for CentOS and Fedora from the RPM Fusion free and nonfree repositories. 

(Yes, the misspelling is intentional...) So, let us say you want the system to start using a new temporary address every 10 minutes. You will then set: 

Then renew with . And in monit specify Finally, you can restart monit with the renewed cert with something like a certbot renew ... 

That output is from . It's added when standard output is not a terminal, and in some other circumstances. Use if you don't want to see it. 

You forgot to enable the repository from which you intended to get the packages. You should make this persistent by editing the repo configuration file and ensuring that the and repos are enabled. 

Look for a file named in your home directory. This file lets ordinary users set up their own email forwarding without involving the system administrator. 

Your block doesn't have a directive defined. Instead it seems to be in one of your blocks. This is one of the most common nginx mistakes. Move it under the block instead. 

In your current configuration, nginx is never started automatically. Note that the symlinks that start with indicate that the service will be stopped (illed) in that runlevel. Symlinks that start with indicate that the service will be tarted. 

On an SELinux-enabled system, the default directory is , and repos should be in subdirectories thereof. Or, you can use, e.g. and set the file context to be equivalent: 

You already did set up the proxy! The option causes sshd to run a local SOCKS proxy on the specified port. Now all that remains is for you to configure your browser to use it. 

Log in with a second admin account and change the password policy. For instance, to set a minimum life of 7 days and a maximum life of 90 days: From the command line: 

What you're missing is: First, ICMP, at least in part, is required for proper functioning of the Internet. Second, blocking pings is completely pointless; it has no security benefits whatsoever, and can cause you trouble later on when you decide you need to be able to ping your device from outside for troubleshooting or other reasons. If you're really determined to "block pings" directed at your ASA then you can do that by specifying the ICMP type (echo-request, which Cisco for some reason simply calls echo) you want to block. 

One does not simply install a 64-bit kernel to change a 32-bit installation to a 64-bit installation. You usually have to completely reinstall the system. That said, the Debian Wiki has a workaround which can be used to migrate 32 to 64-bit on a live system, but it looks hairy enough that I'd probably just reinstall. 

Make sure you answer to the abuse@ address as well. Certain spam blacklists will list you if mail sent to either address bounces. 

Look at the firewall entries on the remote server. Most likely something is blocking ICMP requests used by ping and traceroute. 

(While you can configure Hyper-V with PowerShell, you also need the GUI tools installed to actually make a remote connection to the virtual machine.) Command line method Call from the command line to connect to a specific server and virtual machine. The options for are: 

You started MySQL with the option, either on the command line or in , but you have MySQL users whose names include a hostname, rather than IP address. Since MySQL isn't resolving IP addresses to hostnames, it can't authenticate those users. To resolve the issue, do one or both of: 

There seems to be no documentation of this besides the kernel source itself, and I presume you don't want to dig quite that deep. After digging through several pages of search results I finally found one forum post from someone who apparently did read the kernel source, which claims that the values for TCP and UDP are in kernel pages, while the value in FRAG is in bytes. I glanced at the corresponding sources myself, and this seems to be true. Though, I am no kernel expert and frequently get lost in that maze... 

Your hosting provider's advice is completely useless. Port 25 is the well-known port for receiving mail from other mail servers. If you want to deliver mail directly to a destination, that is what you use. Most such sites will not be attempting to receive mail on any other port, so attempting to deliver to port 26 will do nothing. You basically have two options: 

You're missing a rule to accept traffic based on existing traffic (the rule that makes iptables stateful). This should be your very first rule: 

Don't use inside blocks. This is one of the most common nginx misconfigurations. Instead, place the in the block, and use inside blocks that need specific directories outside the normal document root. 

The socket that gunicorn actually opened, as shown in the journal entries, differs from the socket configured in your systemd unit. The journal shows what gunicorn actually did: 

On a Windows host, qemu isn't actually a hypervisor, but is doing full machine emulation with dynamic translation, which is horrendously slow, and there's little that can be done to speed it up. It's maybe useful as a demonstration or for debugging purposes, but for anything serious you will want to use an actual Windows hypervisor such as Hyper-V, or some other actual hypervisor entirely (e.g. KVM on Linux). 

The specification of a variable should not start with a $; the $ should only be used when using the variable later. Change it to: 

The definition permits all AH, ESP and UDP port 500 traffic. You'll need a second rule if either end has NAT and you need to add UDP port 4500: 

You are meant to distribute the keytab for the service to everyone who needs it. If you regenerate the keytab, the KVNO (version number) will be incremented, invalidating any other keytabs for that service with a lower KVNO. 

There are no redirects in your nginx configuration, so it is most likely that the application (WordPress) is sending the redirect. If you accidentally set up WordPress with the URL of then it will always attempt to redirect to localhost. In this case, you will need to change the URL that WordPress uses. 

You're running nginx as the user named (which is unusual). But one of your directories, , is owned by the nonexistent user 755. The usual reason this happens is mistakenly typing when you meant . You should be able to fix the problem by correcting the ownership of this directory. 

You should never touch anything in production unless there's a good reason to do so. Security updates are a very good reason. And as Iain mentions, testing beforehand helps you to ensure that nothing is likely to go wrong when you apply the updates to your production system. 

This is being caused by SELinux, which blocks the web server (and PHP, which runs under the web server's context) from attaching to processes to trace their execution. This was reported to Red Hat some time ago, but they declined to do anything about it. You can check your and you'll find this denial logged in an AVC similar to: 

The symbols represent unrecognized characters. Most likely the problem here is that AFP uses UTF-8 filenames, but you are not logged in to the system that mounted the AFP share using a UTF-8 locale. If it's a Linux box, you can check your locale using the command. If you find it's not using a UTF-8 locale, you can temporarily change the locale with something like: 

You don't have the ASA configured to allow outgoing NTP traffic, so it doesn't. "Related/established" traffic refers to in-progress traffic, such as incoming replies from NTP servers, not newly initiated traffic, so it doesn't apply here. To resolve the issue, add rules for the appropriate groups to allow outgoing NTP traffic. For example: 

The destination unreachable ICMP packet is a standard Internet control message which indicates that there is no service available on that port. There's generally no reason to disable it (and you didn't give one). But if you really want to disable it, you can just change your firewall rules to drop packets rather than rejecting them. (Wait, you are firewalled, right?) 

Given your requirements, I'd go with adding settings to (I presume you're using puppet, chef, or something similar). You will need to log the user out and stop gconfd (; it usually remains running for a few minutes after logout) to have settings changes take effect. 

No, it's being cached by 'Spacecom Electronics', which presumably is the company you work for (and you are browsing the Internet at work). 

Connection refused means what it's always meant: The connection was never established to begin with, as nothing answered on the remote end. Specifically it means a SYN packet was answered with either an RST or an ICMP port unreachable. This happens when no server is listening to that remote port, or when a firewall is configured to explicitly refuse connections rather than drop traffic. Obviously no SMTP conversation has taken place in this context, as no communication channel was ever opened. It doesn't explain why your recipient claims to have received the messages. To answer that, you'll likely have to go further into your logs, and quite probably into their logs. And it's rather odd that they don't seem to have any... 

On the next boot, the GUI should start up. If you need to start it immediately, you can also do that. 

You have a very strange situation. It's really quite bizarre that any vendor would base a "network switch" on Fedora; with its very short 13-month lifecycle it would be very difficult to support. Unless, of course, they made it impossible to install or update anything, which they seem to have done. And that opens you up to security holes... So if you want to get to a point where you can install software on it, this is what I would recommend. First, the official Fedora archive site is . There you will find the old repositories you are looking for. What I would do is to download the RPM from Fedora 14, and apply that. Then you will have files in which you will have to manually update their s to point to the appropriate directories on archive.fedoraproject.org (and remove the or that might have been in there). This should get you to the point where you can install software and apply whatever updates were available for F14. Also keep in mind that after you do this, the vendor is probably going to tell you to get stuffed...if they're even still in business. Which seems doubtful, if they were making silly business decisions like this. I wouldn't even think about upgrading it past F14 unless you are prepared to sacrifice whatever functionality the vendor provided with this device. Binary compatibility with their custom software cannot be guaranteed if you upgrade to F15 or higher. 

Since the listed abuse contact for 24.223.0.82 is and it seems to be PI address space, I'd suggest just blackholing them, unless you actually know who this company is. In that case, you should call them and find the right person to yell at. 

Instead, you should be routing requests which aren't static files to your web application. For example: 

Your is completely unnecessary and redundant, and is probably the cause of the problem. This is already covered by your existing and directive. Remove the entirely and fix . 

Sounds like you are on an OpenVZ based VPS. You cannot install modules on such a VPS. You have two options: 

In the case you've described, the mails did not originate at your mail server, so they will not affect your mail server's reputation. The SPF record allows any mail server which is configured to check them to reject such messages or mark them as spam, but not all mail servers check SPF records, and some which do check them don't actually do anything with the results. The big providers like Gmail, Hotmail, etc., do check SPF records and use the results, so this is helping you to not receive a lot of bounces you would otherwise get. Not to mention killing a lot of this spam. 

And of course, if possible, you should use the new firewalld system. It should only be necessary to revert to the old system if firewalld fails to provide a feature you need. 

"Seconds" is a unit of time; 321 of them is a little over five minutes. The reason your processes are exiting and respawning is that you have set the option in your php-fpm pool configuration file. For example, taken from the default configuration: 

TL;DR: PCI-DSS 3.1 is effective immediately, but the requirement to disable TLS 1.0 and SSL 3 takes effect after 30 June 2016. 

From inside the container, try to fake the container's init process into thinking the (nonexistent) power button has been pressed. 

The purpose of that particular is to prevent requests for nonexistent static files being passed in to OpenCart. You can do this with another . For instance (off the top of my head, so it may need tweaking): 

I would also guess that you have more mislabeled files on your system. I'd fix the labels recursively for the whole directory myself. 

So you might think you could add here: and cause it to read such a file; any settings in it would then override those in this file. And it works. Except you can't simply amend entries to or any other directive; you can only replace them. Your feeling is correct. This is definitely a shortcoming of the fail2ban configuration file formats. I'd complain to the developer. 

Recent Red Hat-based distributions (RHEL, CentOS, Fedora) also distribute updates as binary deltas, changes from the installed package to the new package. This can result in a bandwidth savings of as much as 90% when installing updates (just make sure is installed to take advantage of it). Consider this example from CentOS 7.0: . The original Firefox 24.5 package is 49 MB, the Firefox 24.7 package is 50 MB, but the delta RPM that updates Firefox 24.5 to 24.7 is 6 MB. Original RPM: