i7 950 - Stock voltages and clocks 12 Gb 1600 Mhz GSkill RAM GTX 580 1.5 Gb Video Card Corsair HX1000 Watt Powersupply 128 Gb Samsung 830 SSD 2 x 320Gb Samsung F4 in RAID 0 ASUS Xonar STX Audio Card 

This creates a tarball of the 2 files file1 and file2. As i said earlier you can throw things at the tarball and it will still be fine! 

You dont need to mark bad sectors manually. Hard disks have a pool of spare, good sectors. When bad sectors are found they are automatically flagged and replaced by spare, good ones. All this is invisible to the user. FYI, you can use tools like Crystaldiskinfo and HD tune to monitor bad sectors, if the drive is SMART enabled (most drives are). However, please also run a hdd diagnostic (depending on your hdd brand). Harddrive diagnostic Tools and services - Tacktech.com A few bad sectors are normal after a period of use. You should backup critical data from that disk on a priority basis. Unless the bad sector count is extremely high, keep a watch over it, particularly for sudden increases. When that happens, be prepared to order a new drive. 

You have created a variable, not a command. Simply opening CMD and typing "python" will do nothing because CMD has no idea what you want to do with "python". Supply a command and the environment variable path should work. Example: CD python 

You can have them daisy chained. After the first task, schedule the 2nd task to trigger on the event created when the first task completes. The details get a little messy, but it's all explained very well here. 

Many apps can do this. A google search for "webcam image replace mac" came up with tons of results, including ManyCam. Focus your googlefu. 

So this started all of a sudden. I'm not sure exactly when but a few days ago. Basically i am running Windows 8.1 on a Samsung 850 SSD. Nothings wrong with it, but suddenly after it gets into windows, there's a reallllly slow patch where no applications will open and for a good 1 minute the computer will be in a sort of stasis. The icons on boot up for all my files are white and I have to manually hit refresh for them to load. The sequence is thus: 

What you want to do is set up another sheet with Managers in 1 column and the corresponding username in the next column. From there, you'll want column K to do a VLOOKUP using column H, going to the 2nd sheet and pulling the 2nd column. 

Unfortunately, the undo function is reverse-sequential only. I would save the changes as a new file, undo the changes, save again as a different file, then DIFF the 2 files and merge the changes you want. 

Don't change the file extension in your workflow. You can still indicate WHAT the file is in the filename and come up with a name scheme that will still sort the way you need it to. Keep the extension .txt. 

The drivers are currently in no state to be called anything but beta drivers. The support is abysmal. However, reinstall them using these methods. But before you do, make sure you purge the current drivers using: 

my computer started crashing to a completely black display where it would try and restart immediately. First it was happening during a game only and i thought it was some memory leak within the game that was causing it. After a day i tried again and everything was back to normal. But then tonight it started happening all the time and it even crashed once while i was in the BIOS. This obviously helped a lot with the diagnosis because i now i know for a certainty that it's hardware related. So i tried to play around with the RAM, i own 12 gigs of ram half of which are around a year older than the other half. So i played around with the DIMM orientations till finally it kept happening even when i was down to 6 gigs of ram. Mind you at one point i had 6 gigs installed but only 4 gigs showing up as usable, which is what lead me to believe it was the RAM or the DIMM. I currently have 4 x 2gig triple channel memory sticks installed, but windows only shows 6 gigs, of course it should show 8. I had previously thought it was one of the DIMM channels, but now it seems to be random. As a result, I am now a bit stumped. I know its not my gfx card, the chances of a CPU malfunction are extremely slim, and i've had normal temperatures always, i run a liquid loop too. I've ruled out the RAM sticks that i own, well not all of them, but the random DIMM slots malfunctioning doesn't seem to be fit that situation. My last two places to turn my attention are the motherboard and my PSU. I own an ASUS Rampage III Extreme and i know these things are notorious for causing problems from nowhere. My PSU is a Corsair HX 1000W and i'm more inclined to thinking that its not the PSU but i'm not sure, i just trust corsair more. Also, there are no Error reports, only sometimes does Windows report that something bad went wrong, i'm sure there are memory dumps, but i'm not sure what you guys would need. My Specs: Windows 8 Professional 64-Bit. i7-950 - Stock speed for now. GSkill -12 gigs 1600Mhz RAM. GTX 580 from EVGA. 128 Gb SATA 3 Samsung 830 series. Essence Xonar STX. 2 x 320 Gb Samsung F4s in RAID 0. H75 Corsair Liquid Cooling System. Corsair HX1000W. If you guys can think of anything, i would greatly appreciate it. TIA 

I have a batch script that runs hourly. It connects to an FTP server, downloads a backup file, then deletes the oldest backup (backups are kept for 4hours by default). This is supposed to insulate our facilities from a connection loss. It was brought to my attention that a facility lost their internet and was unable to make use of these backups because the script had deleted all the old ones 4hours after the connection went down. How can I modify this script to ONLY delete the oldest backup IF a new one is downloaded? 

Hi so i was doing some research in the library so i could use some pictures later on my Desktop computer in my room. I have space on my Lab account which i usually SSH into, and i was wondering if URL's can be directly transferred over to a remote machine and saved on the hard disk. I was thinking something like this: 

So theres this question in my book and it doesn't state exactly how to go about actually calculating utilization anywhere, and i'm not being able to find any substantial information regarding everything i need to solve this question.(My mid term is next week). Anyway, here's the question: 

Yeah, as you say in the last line, I think AutoHotKey is probably the way to go. Have it send the reload keys, wait a short period, then send keys to rotate windows, wait short period, and loop that for as many windows as you have. 

If you're using the pre-built Table of Contents feature in Word, you want a manual table instead of an automatic one, then you can enter the page numbers yourself. Edit: I apologize that I did not remedy the problem as per the original question, but I hope this is a sufficient answer for you to get the job done if it is time-sensitive. 

The main reason for keeping AHCI on when you use a SSD to install windows is to instruct the OS to run its TRIM command. Once this has been activated windows will continue to run the TRIM command. My current set up is similar to yours, if not identical in implementation. I have a 6Gb/s Intel 830 128 gb SSD which i installed windows 8 on using AHCI. Trim is currently running. I have 2 x 320gb HDs in RAID 0 as well. My current BIOS setting for Hard drive orientation is RAID, this is so that it sets up the array each time. You can even keep other singular drives on the other SATA controllers, you need to actually specify the drives used in RAID for them to be so. Therefore to answer your question, no they won't affect it at all. The RAID setting in the BIOS just informs the controller that it needs to set up and maintain a specific array that needs to be defined in the RAID BIOS(yes the controller has its own BIOS). For reference i leave my BIOS mode in RAID. Hope this helps, i can answer any other specific questions you have as i have had considerable experience with RAID