This should work with default Win10 PS/2 drivers. This should be a temporary solution until you fix your USB drivers. There are less expensive alternatives to PCIe-to-PCI adapter on Aliexpress. 

To connect a USB 2.0 (fast) reader, you need a PCI card called "USB 2.0 host controller card", not any "expansion" (since there is no USB 2.0 to "expand"). Example: Startech. There are no USB 2.0 host controllers in PCIexpress format, they exist only in old PCI standard, so your old 2002 Compaq should be fine. You will need to find proper OS driver for this, and more or less functional drivers exists only under Windows XP and above. If you have Vista of W2k, this project might face some challenges. 

(extract) So it seems that by moving the hard disc content off the old computer to the new one, the recycle bin also got copied (?). I can indeed rightclick those files and select "restore", but nothing happens afterwards. The listed file remains in the list, nothing gets actually restored. Are those files dead links? Why do they exist and why is their size still being saved? I can't imagine them to be, because their size is given. Could there be another possibilty to restore them? I already tried out recovery programs like Recuva and Archive - Undelete. Both gave me a list of 153,640 files, of which almost all were ignored due to too much damage to the file. The resulting list included only about 10 document files, none of them helpful. Any idea is very much welcome. Regards Additional infos: I ensured my privilege to view system files within Windows. When I open the given path (S-1-S-21-27...-1002), a folder is being shown with about 20 files in it, none of them being edited before 2012. 

I can get 4k Jumbo frames to work correctly with this model not 9k. I had to manually set jumbo frame size in my nics as well. 

Check in Disk Manager to see if these hard drive are listed as basic or dynamic if the above hardware (new 80pin cable) doesnt help. 

Is the USB port replicator and LED lights still working correctly? This could at least help you determine if you will need a new one. Also I have had luck with keyboard on side and air fan on it for the night. Probably wont help with sticky thou... 

The problem was described at $URL$ In Linux, I can ask pidgin to close via or . The program will then take care of it and shut itself down. Windows doesn't work this way. A signal will only close the window, not the process (just like when you hit the yourself). How do I close pidgin via command? Motivation: It seems that many XMPP servers need the clients to actively say "goodbye" in order to realize they're offline. In other words, there are no packets needed or there are no timeouts (and if, quite delayed). Usually, this is no big problem, because we start and exit our clients accordingly (counting shutdown as exiting). However, if one goes into / mode, it's just as if the network connection were gone suddenly - no chance for pidgin to say "hey there, going offline". So, I need a script to automatically close pidgin gracefully (to be executed directly before suspending). 

Try forcing either AES or TKIP. I have issues if I let Windows or the driver auto select this setting. 

Is the ISO file you are copying from on a network share? I have had similar issues with using ISO files on unc shares with unetbootin, if its local try a different iso like opensuse see if it works. 

I would say that as some mention its shift from companies terms, and another factor not mentioned yet. The term motherboard has been or mostly been lost confused by many as the motherboard/logicboard whatever you term it now includes a GPU on board on many models and will continue to grow this will confuse the term and when dealing from a support perspective if motherboard means on board video or not? 

How about to unplug your Wi-Fi router from AC? :-) Also, doesn't configuration of your router allow to schedule Wi-Fi activity? 

Functionality of service buttons (PwrOn, Reset) is provided by a section of mainboard's ICH (aka "South Bridge" ) powered from always-on +5VSB (standby) voltage. You need to check for quality of this rail. The rail can have a problem on PSU side, or it could be overloaded by excessive amount of bus-powered USB devices. Or it could be a gradual deterioration (fatigue) of ICH chip itself (or partial damage due to ESD event). To check if the PSU is good, plug the PSU into AC outlet without connecting to mainboard or anything else. Its 20/25 pin connector must have the +5VSB pin (pin9, violet) delivering +5V relative to ground wires (black wires). It should hold +5V with at least 2A load (on a 2.5 Ohm resistor). If PSU is good, connect it to bare mainboard, and check if this rail is affected. 

@Ngen is correct most common is just turning off pc or similar not properly shutting down. Or a driver (app, something) causing the pc to not shutdown correctly. Could also be a connector if you have a spare drive connect it, or boot of USB, or CD see if you have errors or crashing there. To help eliminate worse errors. Also under disk mgmt what type of disks are they basic or dynamic? @Moab is also correct fresh install can cure many problems if you dont mind/ have time and backups. 

I have this in my SOHO environment D-Link DGS-2208, connected perfect to my DIR-655. Works well no issues to report. nice price point as well, and same company. 

I am afraid you might be out of luck. The DRAM timing is really tight these days, setup and hold times on memory interfaces are very dependent on quality of particular board layout, and different DIMMs provide different loads to the bus, so results may vary. Although this particular board is made in 2012 when DDR3 has matured, still there could be quirks in DDR controller tune-ups. Also, modern BIOS/UEFI have some intelligent algorithms to tune memeory channel settings, and the message "overclocking failed" is a likely an indication that the tune-up has failed. I would try: 

Alternative: As it is often the case, best way is to search for a solution in AutoHotkey. This helps almost everytime with issues like that. So, searching ahk magnifier, you can find the ScreenMagnifier from Holomind. Supports en/disabling of antialiasing. Looks like this: 

best would be to put this in your autostart. This helps you in the following way: If your mouse is at the very bottom of your screen and the task bar does not come up: Simply click once and it will appear (win+t is being pressed by ahk) PS. I would have loved to upvote the starter's post, but I cannot because of missing reputation.