The information provided in the answer is a generic approach when trouble-shooting issues with broken installations. Possible Issues 

Analysis You receive the above error message if the program is already running or if your privileges are not correct. Solution Try stopping the SQL Server () service first and the you should be able to start without any further issues. IF the service is not running, check the Processes tab in the Windows Task Manager for a process . IF the the service is not running and no other process can be seen in the Task Manager ensure you start the Command Prompt with and you should be able to start the process. IF you are still unable to start the instance, then you might have to add additional parameters when manually starting your instance. SQL Server Startup Parameters (2014) The parameters for manually starting SQL Server are as follows: 

You might be able to query your database with the help of the Needle in a Haystack code. From the author 

You can't. The query plans belong in the query plan cache. You can either clear the QPC or leave the DBE to do its best. (Selective deletion of query plans can be achieved with DBCC FREEPROCCACHE(, but I wouldn't recommend this.) Determine what query plans are stored in the QPC and optimise the application and/or the memory settings for the SQL Server instance. (See script in Cigar Lounge and join with sys.dm_exec_sql_text and/or other DMV according to description for plan_handle column in sys.dm_exec_cached_plans documentation) 

The whole idea behind a materialized view is to make the data "available" in the view and not to have to retrieve the data from the underlying tables for example from a remote location. If the data or the table definitions are modified, then the MV becomes INVALID. Materialized Views (in earlier versions known as snapshots) The definition of a materialized view can be found in the original documentation: 

You might want to check out the following article: Can not get mysql-connector-python to install in virtualenv (Stackoverflow) The accepted answer states the following: 

Your motherboard's disk controller (SATA interface) is having issues handling the large amount of data. 

I've been kicking PostgreSQL backup around the last couple of weeks, because of a new job, and I find the implementation of PostgreSQL's backup quite hard to grasp. What I have learned however, is that the a missing WAL file is the worst situation you can have. A missing WAL file will not allow you to continue your restore past the missing file, because the PostgreSQL database relies on the WAL file to be ACID. You could try to retrieve some of the information from the non-restored WAL files, but you wouldn't have any guarantee, that the resulting database/instance is consistent. 

No. And then yes. Well, it depends. What are your requirements? Backup / Restore Capabilities Do you want a backup of the database ... 

I have posted answers on two occasions that relate to your issue. Will VSS backups break logchain? - My answer here How can I backup an SQL Server database using Windows Server Backup? - My answer here Checking the 3rd-party backups Basically you have to check the backup history in the database to see how the database backups were created with the 3rd-party software. With the following script you can retrieve some of the information relevant for further investigation: 

sys.dm_os_buffer_descriptors From the official documentation on sys.dm_os_buffer_descriptors (Transact-SQL): 

The transaction log can still grow to max size or until the disk is full if a transaction is never COMMIT-ed. This is because a CHECKPOINT will have no effect on the LSN in the Transaction Log. Because a transaction is still open the TLog will not be purged. If you have no requirements for a Point-in-Time recovery and your management is happy to have a restore from the last differential backup, then you could go with the SIMPLE recovery model. There can still be a performance impact when using the SIMPLE recovery model when 1. occurs. Transactions are still written to the TLog file even in SIMPLE recovery model, they just get purged automatically on each CHECKPOINT and if the SQL Server has resources to spare. 

Disclaimer: Please read the whole answer to the end before you perform any modifications. Please backup everything before you change the permissions and/or owners. You are changing permissions at your own risk Possible Root Cause Changing the permissions on the directory isn't the best idea. 

Find Objects Related to Obsolete Filegroup I rigged up this script to check as much possible hiding places for tables/indexes/partitions/etc. that could be still relating to the dropped filegroup file: Please replace with the name of your obsolete filegroup (e.g. ) 

You might have noticed that this job will report a success when the first step fails (On Fail = 1 ). References 

Your question would be better suited for the Unix or Ubuntu site because it looks like a basis Linux issue. Anyway here goes. Solution After you have logged in to your Ubuntu server, you should be on a shell prompt similar to the following: 

Depending on the version of Oracle you are using the answer is either: Oracle 12c or older I stand corrected: According to Balazs Papp's answer there is a way to cancel a running query in Oracle via the DBMS_RESOURCE_MANAGER package. 

If the database backup history has the flag set to then subsequent backups do not require these (3rd-party) backups to restore the database to a consistent state. This is because: 

Limitations / Restrictions There are some restrictions on the permissions granted to the administrators of AWS RDS instances as documented in the article Microsoft SQL Server on Amazon RDS in the chapter Microsoft SQL Server Security Here an overview: 

How Does This Relate to Your Questions? You should have the basics now, so let's have a look at how this all relates to your questions. If your application is modifying data or if the maintenance task is modifying data all modifications have to be stored in the TLog file. If the TLog has to grow because there is insufficient free space in the file and if the growth settings permit, then the TLog file will grow. Yes, But You Changed Things 

You could always script out the relevant tables and/or indexes by using the following statements. They create the relevant or statements which you can then cut & paste from the output window to the input window and use to reset the compression to NONE. They aren't the prettiest, but they do the job. Table objects 

That said you can reduce the impact of other SQL Server Agent jobs during the upgrade process by disabling the individual jobs instead of stopping the SQL Server Agent. Then I would recommend performing the SQL Server upgrade/update using the recommended steps outlined in the Microsoft Docs article: Upgrading Mirrored Instances 

... I created a simple statement to have a look at the different values returned by these functions. The code is as follows: Code 

As McNets pointed out there are various ways to retrieve the date you require. It's good to know though that the dates and times are defined as in the tables and not as dates and times as one would expect. Reference: dbo.sysjobhistory (Transact-SQL)(Microsoft Technet) 

percent (%) or MB growth? Changing the growth settings from % to MB is a good thing to do, but it doesn't eliminate the need for the database to store transactions somewhere, if the space in the TLog is all used up. Additional reading: 

An then verify the settings for the portion, by checking that ... a) TCP Dynamic Ports is set to (No value/empty) b) TCP Port is set to (No value/empty) c) The screen should look like this: 

Basically, I set a string values, output that value, and output the value, then the ed value and output it. Results The results were quite interesting: 

If there is a default MySQL user named then you would start a MySQL prompt with the following command: 

This will reveal some vital information. The view relies on the system function. Here Mark hits a wall and has to circle round via the view (deprecated) to reveal: 

Moving further forward (in the reference) the examined time (vertical axis) moves forward and reaches the END of T2. The transaction T2 is put into the REDO queue. Moving forward (in the reference) the examined time (vertical axis) moves forward and reaches the END of T4. The transaction T4 is put into the REDO queue. 

Metadata Mismatch Added after further research Apparently there are cases when the metadata in the database does not reflect the actual location of the objects. Reference: - FIX: Metadata inconsistency error after you switch table partitions and drop corresponding files and filegroups (Microsoft Support) - FIX: Error occurs when you try to drop or delete filegroups or partition schemes and functions in SQL Server (Microsoft Support) These two cases seem to been resolved with Cumulative Update 3 for SQL Server 2014 SP1 and Cumulative Update 1 for SQL Server 2016 respectively. They don't apply to your situation, but they show that sometimes the metadata can be wrong. The item that seems to be blocking your filegroup deletion is the index, which might be stored with wrong meta-data. Possible Solution Consider rebuilding the index which is referenced in the error message. 

These are just quick examples of how you can introduce debugging without having access to the SQL Server Debugger or the required privileges. 

This means that if the record for the previous DIFF or FULL backup was unable to be recorded in the msdb database, then the TLOG files will never be deleted. Special Solution 

At that time T2 and T3 are put into the UNDO queue. Moving forward (in the reference) the examined time (vertical axis) moves forward and reaches the BEGIN of T4. The transaction T4 is put into the UNDO queue. Moving forward (in the reference) the examined time (vertical axis) moves forward and reaches the BEGIN of T5. The transaction T5 is put into the UNDO queue. 

I found out the hard way that single quotes (') and double quotes (") can mess up your comments and even render stored procedures unrecoverable in SSMS. They will still run/execute but you will have to retrieve them from the sys.sql_modules dmv if you want to modify them ever again. However, this does not seem to be the case here, as OP is running an ad-hoc statement with a big comment block. Even though I was unable to reproduce the issue when logging in to a SQL Server 2008 R2 server and connecting to a SQL Server 2014 instance, I noticed that the issue seems to occur after 2048 bytes of data in the comment. 

You should receive a . SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) Verify that the radio button is selected for SQL Server and Windows Authentication mode. 

Solution Add your last TLOG backup of your database to the restore statement and you should be able to restore to your point-in-time at 03:07:00 AM. 

etc. Best practice Consider deploying the solution to a development server as is (ok, modify the database you will be using) and then have a look at the individual scripts, jobs and tables. Familiarise yourself with the solution and then modify according to your requirements. And of course consider reading Ola's documentation on his site: 

If you look throught the slides from beginning to end you will find that the explanation is pretty accurate. 

For the Dedicated Admin Connection (DAC); really depends on Browser Service status a) Browser Service ON 

When installing the Oracle Database Client 12c Release 2 software on a Windows client the user has the option to select an installation type. These are: 

You might want to consider analysing the growth of your database over the last n days. This can be achieved by analysing the backup information in the msdb database. The following scripts are two variations of how to achieve this: 

2nd instance Because the 2nd instance has a dynamic port for the SQL Server instance and a dynamic port for DAC, the ports have to be retrieved from the ERROR log file in advance before connecting to the SQL Server. See 7 for more information. In this example I will assume port 63390 is used for the SQL Server instance and port 63389 is used for the Dedicated Admin Connection. Microsoft recommends to fix the IP port, thus allowing you to properly configure a firewall 6. 

3. Add User to Database Role Once you have granted the permission to delete data on all of your tables, all you have to do is assign the users to this database role. 

Permissions / Privileges In some cases if the user doesn't have access to the you might have either grant access to the export directory via: 

In Solution Explorer, right-click the Shared Data Sources folder in the report server project, and then click Add Existing Item. The Add Existing Item dialog box opens. Navigate to an existing Report Definition Shared data source (rds) file and then click Open. Click OK. 

I haven't found any other reasoning behind such a configuration yet. There are absolute no availability groups or transactional replication going on and transaction log shipping has not been implemented. The servers have been configured to have the default instance and multiple additional instances as explained below. SQL Server Environment The SQL Servers are configured to contain multiple instances. Server to instance relationship Each SQL Server can have 1 to n instances 

In order to retrieve data for the view you would have to for all the above objects. Sadly, this is not possible, because of the following restrictions: 

Continue with step 7. If the instance can not start with the PFILE then you have to create a new one with the following command: 

I created an Excel sheet with a chart based on the formula which was recommended by Jonathan Kehayias in his article: How much memory does my SQL Server actually need? Jonathan Kehayias: 

4. Check your router configuration Your public IP is not yours it's your router's. If your server is behind the router then you have to ensure your router is forwarding the request to your SQL Server. This configuration setting can vary from router to router. Here a few examples for configuring routers: - Port Forwarding (Zyxel) - Setting up static port sharing (Fritz AVM) - How do I configure Port Forwarding on my router? (D-Link) With the provide tips and tricks you should be able to set your SQL Server to accept connections from the Internet. 

I would connect directly to the Access database back-end part. Why involve the front-end? ...As I understand splitting access prevents from data corruption in shared database (when users open same file). ... This is not quite correct. Splitting an Access database ... 

There are a couple of solutions to your problem, depending on what you are trying to achieve. 1. Create a New SQL Server Authenticated SQL Server Login You can create a new SQL Server Authenticated SQL Server Login and assign it a password and the relevant database permissions. This account shouldn't contain a backslash ( ) because of the above limitations. 2. Map the Windows Authenticated SQL Server Login to an Existing Database User Instead of creating a new SQL Server Authenticated SQL Server Login, you can link the existing Windows Authenticated SQL Server Login to either an existing Database User that has not yet been linked or to a new non-existing Database User. To achieve this using the GUI in SSMS you 

The lifecycle policy for Microsoft products is generally that the support for the previous Service Pack expires 12 months after the new Service Pack was released to the public. So if the SQL Server 2012 Service Pack 4 is due in June 2017, then the Service Pack 3 will lose its support approx. June 2018. Microsoft Support Lifecycle Site If you search for SQL Server 2012 on the Lifecycle Support page you will see the results for the previous service pack Service Pack 2 and the following information for the current Service Pack 3: 

Answering the initial question No. Providing a solution The procedure of restoring the system databases is explained in the following Microsoft Article: Reference: Rebuild System Databases (SQL Server 2012) Prerequisites 

You shouldn't encounter any issues any more. (Or at least until your java application consumes all the processes again). 

... the user's inability to use the correct password had no adverse effect on the sa account (No locking of sa account) ... the hacker was able to enter multiple passwords for the sa SQL Login until he had access. (No locking, but hacker in system) ... it didn't matter if any script, program, user, system used a wrong password for the sa account. 

When you look at the General tab in the Login Properties of the sa account, you will notice different settings. One of them being Enforce password policy. I discussed this setting in my answer to the question How to lock a sql login after N unsuccessful login attempts. Possible reasons for change in lockout behaviour If you previously didn't have an Active Directory policy for locking out accounts, then ... 

Then restart your server and change the password as you normally would. Mixed Mode (SQL Server and Windows Authentication mode) If you don't turn on Mixed Mode authentication you will constantly receive an error message when trying to log in with the SQL Server login even though you have changed the password and enabled the login. 

Start the program and you should be guided through the de-installation routine. If you don't see any option to de-install an instance, then you might not be running the correct program version, or you might not be on the server you are trying to de-install the SQL Server instance from.