I've always wondered why there are the two different wiring standards for Cat5 UTP cabling. The only technical difference between the two is the green and orange pair are swapped, which accomplishes the exact same thing as far as wiring goes (as long as the terminations are using the correct pin-outs). Is there some historical reason that we have both standards? Is there a technical reason? Should I require my wiring to be one standard or the other? Or it just one of those strange and annoying things you have to deal with for no (readily apparent) reason? 

You might also find interesting; it will contain more authentication information as well as log the successful login attempts. A sample from my workstation: 

The Novell Client needs to identify what IP address/es the server hosting NetWare Services is located at before it can actually login. This information is gathered through what Novell calls "Name Space Providers" (NSPs); since we're on IP only we're limited to using just SLP, DNS, a HOST/NWHOST file, or DHCP (TID10057730). You can access and disable which of these NSPs is available for the Novell Client to use by selecting or de-selecting them in the Properties - Protocol Preferences as mentioned earlier. According to the same TID after NT/2000 the Novell Client polls the NSPs in an "asynchronous" manner, so there is no "order" (unfortunately) in which they're polled. Additionally, the Novell Client will cache these "service names" locally. The default setting is to hold this cache for 21 days. If, you're trying to force the clients to look for the same NDS tree on a different IP address clearing this cache might be something to consider (Advanced Settings - Server Cache Timeout or HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NetWareWorkstation\Parameters\ServerCacheTimeout). More information about how the Novell Client uses which "Name Service" provider can be found here. SLP however seems to be a method that is used in my shop. Novell has info out about how the Novell Client uses SLP here. However, as mentioned the best most "fool-proof" way to force the Novell Client to only access NetWare Service from one IP address is to manually specifying that IP in the 'Server:' prompt of the utility. This should in theory override any of the hints (i.e., netware_server.department.mycorp) and anything in the cache, but you will probably want to double-check somehow. 

Windows Server 2012 R2 is all about PowerShell and frankly with the redesign of Server Manager I'm quite glad. 

What version of Debian are you running? libboost-dev is at 1.34.1-14 in Lenny (aka oldstable). I'm not sure which version of the library you need for xbt since I couldn't find the build requirements for it anywhere but 1.42.0.1 is available in Squeeze. Have you considered upgrading to Squeeze? 

The switches are set to trust BOTH the port the authorized dhcp server is attached to and its IP address. This is all well and good for the clients attached to Switch A, but the clients attached to Switch B get denied due to the "untrusted relay information" error. This is odd for a few reasons 1) dhcp-relay is not configured on either switch, 2) the Layer-3 network here is flat, same subnet. DHCP packets should not have a modified option 82 attribute. dhcp-relay does appear to be enabled by default however: 

My self-signed CA certificate is not available in the selections under Trusted Root Certification Authorities. Trying to authenticate the client without my self-signed cert being trusted in the 802.1x PEAP settings fails due the "Validate server certificate" setting. And of course if I manually configure the client to trust my cert, the radius server's certificate can be properly validated and then 802.1x works. My goal is to be able to assign a machine to OU where this GPO will be applied and all the resulting 802.1.x and CA settings will be made without me having to touch the client machine at all. How can I build a GPO for 802.1x PEAP settings that will set clients to trust my self-signed CA certificate? 

I'm not sure what you are talking about here. There are no Share permissions called in Windows Server 2003 and Windows Server 2008 R2: 

Our Site Code is actually and funnily enough the first three letters of our organization start with REV. Mighty coincidental if you ask me. Furthermore, this is not the first SCCM install that existed here and it turns out the previous SCCM 2007 had the existing Boundaries, Collections and Packages migrated over to our new install. Smoking gun? Not quite. It used a different site code as well. Perhaps the REV site code was used for a temporary test installation of SCCM 2012? Perhaps not. Institutional knowledge doesn't have any record of the it and the migration we performed before I was hired. However - our old PatchDownloader.log from the SCCM 2007 instance shows the Software Updates Patch Downloader connecting to the WMI namespace. Unfortunately, I don't have logs from our current 2012 install from May where I could confirm the correct WMI namespace is being referenced. 

Now I cannot find anything in the client-side logs for what happened. Nothing in the , , logs and the which is supposed to record the Application Catalog action does not exist. If we deploy an application to a User Collection containing our regular users and they use the same account they are logged in to Windows as to log into the Application Catalog the same application that previously failed installs. This leads me to believe that you cannot use a separate account for the App Catalog as the current Windows session. Which is kind of a bummer. 

Is my understanding correct? I am a bit thrown by the terminology NetApp uses as well as the "snapshot is full" (does that mean one snapshot or the snapshot reserve)? What happens if the user data grows and competes with the snapshot spill space? Does the snapshot occupying it get deleted? What condition/s generally cause this to happen? It's my understanding that once the snapshot reserve is full or if a new snapshot will fill it, ONTAP just bumps the oldest snapshot/s out the reserve as necessary. In that case, how exactly can you even "fill the snapshot"? 

I would really question your need to have this many VLANs on a network this small. Unless you have very specific reasons for requiring separate VLANS for each department it sounds like you adding a great deal of complexity without much (perceived) benefit. Sometimes we have to resist to urge to be overly clever. 

Notice that the SCCM deployed version came from the local CCM cache. You can add these to your Detection Logic or Requirements as appropriate to correct detect this condition. 

The choice between using a single password for your fleet of laptops or using unique passwords on per-machine basis depends on some question you need to think about: If you pick a single password, will you change it every time someone who knows it leaves employment? If not, how often will you rotate it? If you pick a unique password, you'll have increased security but increased overhead too (however you won't have to rotate the password for every laptop each time an employee leaves). How will you keep track of the password rotation scheme? My suggestion here is pick a permutation scheme that uses a number that physically stays with the laptop, like part of the serial number. Add something else to this that you can remember. The permutation scheme should be relatively hard to guess, but easy enough so that you can sit down at laptop and not have to refer to documentation. This should reduce some of the management overhead. Obviously, if you need to rotate the password for a laptop, you need to pick a new permutation scheme to "generate" your password with. This could be a simple as incrementing a digit... regardless document, document, document. 

About as future safe as anything in the networking world. The IEEE publishes open standards and ostensibly vendors and manufactures adhere to them but in reality you will find that backwards compatibility (and just good old standards adherence) is hard to guarantee in present let alone the future. A Good Vendor (TM) will ensure that their equipment is backwards compatible with existing standards. If it isn't they should offer you an upgrade of your network switch with some kind of discount (at least in my opinion). The upside of this is "in-place" standards will be around for along time so even after a newer version of that standard is released you can expect newer equipment to generally support it and the older version (i.e., don't expect to see 802.1af go anywhere anytime soon - there are far too many existing devices that use it). You should contact NetGear and ask what their plans are for the future support of 802.1at (PoE+) with this model of switch is. Since 802.1at (PoE+) is the newest implementation of PoE if you want to be the "safest" with regard to forward planning and have the most flexibility with which PoE-enabled devices you can choose in the future, pick a switch that supports both standards.