In Excel 2010, the formula gives the right answer of . According to the function help, the arguments should be at most 40 bits (10 hex digits). However, the following versions give me a error: 

I have the Syncrosoft License Manager installed, and as far as I can tell, this is a dongle-based licensing scheme. I do not have any software that requires a dongle, nor do I have a key dongle. I would like to remove this program, but am not sure if it will affect one of my installed programs. How can I determine which software (if at all) installed this license manager? 

So, I went to but could not find anything specific to the Python addon. Where should I look for adding Python dev support to my MSVS Express 2013 installation? Please note that I am using Python for very basic process automation scripting, so no need for web/GUI development, if this matters. 

I am using gVim's function to pop a dialog waiting for the user to click a button. However, there seems to be a difference in the appearance of the dialog when called from : Using the command: generates the following dialog: 

Now, I am trying to restore my profile on the new installation. Following the instructions in the Mozilla support page, I renamed the newly created profile to a temp name, then renamed the backed-up profile to the name of the newly created profile. This method did not work. Next, I restored the newly created profile folder and this time copied the content of the old profile onto the new profile. This did not work either. So last thing, I removed FF (x64) and reinstalled FF (x86), thinking maybe the profiles are not compatible between 32- and 64-bit versions. But this did not work either. How can I restore my Firefox profile from the backup? 

I am using WinMerge (v 2.14) extensively to compare Git repositories. The code tree is comprised of multiple folders with subfolders and dozens of source files. When I make changes to a file or a directory in teh tree, I want to refresh the compare on that specific directory. WinMerge provides a menu item ( -> ), a hotkey (Ctrl+F5) and a context menu item for this operation. However, non of these options does not perform the diff update, and I have to run a full diff (F5) to refresh the view. Is this a WinMerge's bug? How to update a subtree diff view? 

If you would rather do a virtualized environment, then I would personally create a shared folder on Windows, and have Ubuntu browse the network with the file explorer which should find the Windows share with ease. We could do this vice-versa and create a folder on Ubuntu that we will share on the network for Windows. We would have to make some small changes to make this work because you need this share to work even without an internet connection. The changes are small and will allow you to share with or without an internet connection no matter where you go. 

This is show you all the information about the connected network adapters in your computer. You're looking for the "Default Gateway" from either the Wireless LAN Connection or the Ethernet Local LAN Connection. Usually, 192.168.1.1 is the default IP address to manage your router, but then you will have to know what the user and password is to get logged in and is sometimes printed on the router. You can also ask your ISP if you're unsure of what the login info is. Once you make it to this point, we can further try to troubleshoot what you got going on. 

I have two connections to my share from 2 different IP address, just wanted to show as an example. Port 139 is for our NetBIOS Session Service Port 445 is for our SMB file sharing Regards, Chris 

I'm currently doing something similar on my Windows 10 machine; however, I'm not using VMware, I'm using Virtualbox. I'm really only addressing the file sharing between the Windows 10 host and Ubuntu Virtual Machine. I created a share on Windows that had Read/Write access for the default windows user "everyone" on my entire network and then installed Samba on Ubuntu. I then had to make sure that the VM had its promiscuous mode set to "allow all" and set VirtualBox to use a bridge network adapter, so that the VM would be on the same network as the rest of my computers pulling an IP address from my DHCP router. Just to note: If you're using a GUI with Ubuntu, you should just be able to go to the Network tab of Ubuntu file manager and connect to the Share from there rather than having to manage and install software from the terminal. If you're using the terminal, then you will need to install samba and change the "/etc/fstab" file to connect to the share on boot. 

Looks like I tried placing it in the wrong place. According to this page, The file should be installed in . Then, restarting the IDE enables the selection of the scheme from the Settings pane. 

What would be the complementing metaphor for a system comprised of a host computer running an application and an accelerator system doing some specific type of calculations? What is a good name for the accelerator part? UPDATE: In our context, we are really talking about an embedded processor supporting the CPU, which can be an Intel CPU or an ARM controller, etc. Think of a GPGPU for example. However, at the current state, this is merely a dev board connected to a linux machine via USB. It should not change the relationship between the two, though. 

Until recently we used the Lync option for sending files to transfer big files between our work team members. Today I was looking for this option to send a 30MB file to my colleague, but could not find it. Asking around, I heard that the option was disabled by MS, but I cannot find an evidence for that online. Was this option really removed? Why? 

When using the command to shift the script parameters one position down, I can see the values shift by echo-ing the parameter: 

You can use the function for finding the rental increase value based on the row range match, something like this: 

assuming the cells in the picture are placed at A1. This should return the rent increase in the cell where you put the formula. 

When working with a file that is regularly changing externally, a popup warning dialog is opened, asking whether to keep buffer contents (the default) or load the updated file into the buffer: 

Word 2013 lets you install apps from the Office app store, which you can access from the / / menu. Being too curious, I did not make a proper research on this feature before installing the Merriam-Webster dictionary app. The darn app won't launch properly, so after a few attempts, I decided to reinstall the app. To my horror, now the same app appears twice in the drop-down box. Typically to Microsoft's recent half-baked features, I could not find a way to remove this app from my Word 2013! When opening the , I can only see how to further plague my Word with more apps. Even when selecting , I can only hide the app in the online list (but not uninstall it), and even then, the two instances of the app still appear in the drop-box. How can I remove Apps from my Word 2013 installation? 

Try running firefox from the commandline, what happens? If that fails, try running the following from the command line: 

Create a new VM Install OS on new VM Add disk image from the crashed VM to the new VM (add disk via vmware settings) Copy needed data from old disk, to new disk. Profit! 

I'd like to add a dedicated N (or g - lock the 310n to g) channel to the network. Any thoughts? Is buying a second cheap G router the best option (setting up a wired bridge with dd-wrt), get an N bridge (if so, any recommendations?) The only reason I actually care about N at all is getting some speed to my mac mini (HTPC). I really don't want/need a new router (unless there's not a good option that costs less than a 610n). 

edit: You can print $$ to a file in the else, prior to the exec if you want to capture the pid. You can also just grep through PS output to kill based on pid. 

It really has nothing to do with the number of "users" or wireless clients. If I'm downloading a 1gig file at 1mbs that would leave 53mbs (on a 54mb link) for other applications to do stuff. However, if I'm able to get that 1gig file with a rate of 45mbs that would leave 9mbs for other applications. The speed of the flow depends on bandwidth, routers, network conditions between the two devices involved in the flow. Note: due to header overhead etc, you will never get 54mbs of transfer rate out of a 54mbs network. And it's really not that straight forward, but it's a more accurate way of thinking about the problem. 

These total to about 1.5 - 2mb of ram and almost no load. So, yes, your system resources are impacted, though I doubt you'd ever notice. 

I'd give handbrake a shot. It has worked great for most of what I've thrown at it. You may have to tweak settings, but the defaults should be a good starting point. The big thing to check is how it handles the audio stream. I've noticed that some of the defaults want to convert everything to stereo. It's easy enough to change, just check. 

You would then be able to copy stuff to the drive with both operating systems, and they would be able to handle the mounting in the file explorer for you. This would give you the luxury of having each operating system use the computers hardware to its fullest potential without having to use virtualization, or change your current setup again all while never disconnecting the USB from the computer. 

The only difference I see from my PC compared to yours, from what you have shared, is the NETBIOS over Tcpip. Mine shows enabled, while yours is showing disabled, so that should be an easy enough setting to see if it fixes your problem. From the Ethernet Adapter Properties window, double click the Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4) to bring up the IPv4 Properties windows. 

If you can access both of these servers from your main computer, and get authenticated, then you can do this in file explorer without having to remote into either computer, per se. Type in the ip address in file explorer in the address bar with c$ at the end to get the C:\ of the server you're trying to access. For example, \\192.168.1.2\c$ will try to access the C:\ of the server with the address 192.168.1.2. Open two file explorers and do one server in one file explorer, and the other server in the other file explorer, and you then have file transferring abilities without using mstsc! Here is an image to explain what I mean further: 

This will delete all network server connections. It would also be worth looking at the other saved credentials in the Windows Credential Manager, to see if there is already an entry for the mapped drive. I would assume an entry would be there since you specified to reconnect at login. I would also double check your entry you made to make sure you have the server\username box and password box correct. 

I recently had a laptop that would randomly shut down at any time and wouldn't boot after clicking on the restart button. I was able to track down the culprit in Event Viewer and see what was going on. Event Viewer will log many things about the boot process, such as the time it took to boot, application errors on boot, etc... Here is a link to the site that I followed: $URL$ This is for Windows 7, but I tested many of the options listed in Windows 10 successfully. Once you start to use the filter with IDs, you will be able to really narrow down what is causing the slow boots. 

A different approach is to use a program like swatch. Swatch is built to do exactly what you are talking about, plus a dozen other things. 

Clarification: I've installed the Lion-Server package on my desktop. This isn't headless server hardware. 

I'd really consider getting separate devices to handle the three different tasks. It costs a bit more now, but will save you money in the long run. With an all in one unit, upgrading one piece forces you to upgrade everything. I have a generic docsis 2.0 modem, a linksys 610n router (really nice dual radio that supports dd-wrt) and a generic linksys voip box. When I want to upgrade to a docsis 3.0 modem, I don't have to pay for a new router/voip box. (not to mention having to re-configure my router). In the end, being able to upgrade individual pieces rather than re-buy the whole thing is a plus (yet I'm still a Mac user, go figure) 

Get a new cpu fan. They're cheap and pretty easy to install. Were you looking for a different answer? 

QoS is the right choice. I don't know about the D-Link software, but I know that dd-wrt handles this just fine. I don't know if it's available in the D-Link firmware, but you may be able to set your QoS stuff using a mac address rather than an IP. that way you would still be able to use automatic address assignment. The only reason I could think that would give you connection problems would be using a duplicate IP address. Try setting the static IP of your xbox to be on the upper end of your range. i.e. if your home network is numbered out of 192.68.1.0/24 space, try setting the xbox to be 192.168.1.200. This should take it out of the range of addresses normally used for DHCP. Someone will un-doubtedly complain that this is a gaming question. I think it's a networking question. 

get connected to Lion Server again failing that, a way to completely remove lion server so I can re-install Another place to look/check etc. so I can continue debugging, I'm a bit stuck at the moment.