We also turn off auto-summary so that it doesn't summarize the network into a classful network as you are seeing now. Please also remember that RIPv1 is very old and you probably shouldn't be using it. If you must use RIP, make sure it is version 2 as it has many improvements over version 1, and using classless addresses is one of them :) Hope this helps you on your quest. SleepyMan 

If you are on release 12.4(15)T12 | 12.4(24)T2 then this could be related to a Cisco bug CSCtg26917 with more details on it here Symptom: 

Which will establish a static LAG and force one to be created. Using this method you will receive redundancy between your switch and servers. I hope this helps you on your quest. SleepyMan 

I think this might be related to a bug. This issue is documented in Cisco bug ID CSCea46385. To resolve the issue, you need to add the no keepalive command to the interface. Hope this helps you on your quest. SleepyMan 

Will make SW1, the root bridge for vlan 201. This command basically sets the lowest priority it needs, to become the root bridge. Remember, the lower the priority, the more likely the switch becomes the root bridge. The command 

To get PIM to work on the cisco switches you can either globally set the multicast to traverse all the VLAN's using the following command: 

My guess would be to use a DHCP relay agent on your core switch/router. Configure this under each vlan interface and point it to your DHCP server. The DHCP discoveries will only stay on the LAN segment so you need a relay agent so that the broadcast can be turned into a unicast and routed to the vlan or even external IP address to offer an IP address. Make sure you create scopes on your DHCP server that matches the subnet that the device is requesting an IP address from. If you specify what networking gear you are using we can help you more with the specific configuration. Hope this helps you on your quest. SleepyMan 

This information has been taken from the juniper techlibrary site. Links provided below. Active Option Install Option 

This is a basic definition of network traffic. Your question is too wide to answer without any more technical details on exactly the purpose of the analysis. Do you need to know the type of traffic that is being transmitted, such as what protocol is being used, where the traffic flows to, ie destination or perhaps the source of the traffic? Or are you being asked to monitor the consumption of bandwidth such as the throughput? 

As you can see that the interface and its adjacent interface are both in the same area and not separate. This will allow a neighbour relationship to be established. 

Yes, it is possible but will only cause you issues. You will end up with IP conflicts and will see issues where some frames/packets will travel to one device and some frames/packets to the other. The other issue you will see is the mapping between MAC addresses and IP addresses. Each MAC address on the LAN segment will be mapped to an IP address and devices will use ARP to resolve an IP address to a MAC and place it in their ARP table. When two MAC addresses have the same IP address, you will end up sending data to the wrong device as on local LAN segment, data is being send based on MAC destination and source address. When devices use ARP to find out who has IP address 192.168.1.1 for example, the device will end up with two responses from two different devices and you might see the ARP table being constantly updated as devices on the LAN segment will think the MAC has changed for that particular IP address. if you are using windows, type in arp -a in command prompt to see the ARP cache and it looks similar to this. 

It's very hard to help you with such little information. That IP address could be anything. This being a private address on your network and also ending with .1 would indicate that this is your gateway. So it could be your router. One thing you could try to do is use a tool such as NMAP with Zenmap gui (for convenience) and scan the IP address to get more information about the host. Try going to that IP address as well in your browser and see whether it is running a web service that will be tell you what it is. 

Note: VLAN 1 always exists by default and can't be removed. So now you have VLAN 1 and VLAN 2 created To assign the ports to the VLAN you can do something like this and also use the range command to apply this to multiple ports. This selects ports 1-16. 

The HP 1920 switches aren't really enterprise level switches and definately do not support 10Gb connectivity. So if you are connecting your hosts to the ISCSI storage where your guests are located, 1Gb/s, even if aggregated, wouldn't give you great performance. The 1920's are more aimed for small office environment. Ideally what you would want to do is use switches that can do real stacking and be seen as a single switch for higher availability and then alternate the ports between them with LACP trunks. There is a lot to your question and I agree with Ron. We can only help and suggest improvements. The research and the real work will need to be done by yourself. Send us information on how you are planning to connect everything. Start with what you know and then we can go from there. Hope this helps you on your quest. SleeoyMan 

This will tell the switch to send LACP control packets and try to establish a LAG between the switches and the server. If your server does not support LACP, you will need to use something like 

You might want to look at the action that is taken when the port detects a MAC address that is not authorized so you can tell the switch to disable the port or simply alert only, so that it can sent a SNMP trap. Please be mindful that this isn't 100% secure as any user with technical know-how, will be able to change their MAC address to the one specified and still get access. Alternatively what you could also do, if you are using a specific VLAN for the access points, disable any form of DHCP for this VLAN and statically assign the IP addresses to your access points. And if a user does try to get on that particalular port, without DHCP they will be stuck. Unless, of course they are clever enough to know whatIP range to assign themselves, including gateway, etc. Hope this helps you on your quest. SleepyMan 

Unless you are going to lay your own cabling and connect the sites together, you will need to speak to a service provider to connect these two up. Usually the WAN connection will be managed by the provider with a guaranteed SLA which will be included in the service contract. Anything connected to the service provider equipment on the customer side, will be your responsibility to manage, but the actual link between the two sites will be the service provider's responsibility to maintain and manage and give you a satisfying service. The service provider will install their equipment on both sites which will support the protocol that they will use. You will need to use a router that supports NAT and a firewall would also be advantageous for security reasons. The router will enable you to route between the two sites and this will be your responsibility. Basically, they will provide you a path to the remote site and it will be up to you to setup the route path based on the IP range they give you. Hope this helps on your quest. SleepyMan 

I think SSID isolation is not the same as Client Isolation. Some controllers will have both and I believe they perform two different tasks. With SSID isolation, it simply means that if you have multiple SSID's and clients connected to them, the clients from different SSID's will not be able to communicate. With client isolation ( which is what you want ), clients on the same network will not be able to communicate with each other. It is possible that the ping not going through is a red herring and is not due to the SSID isolation. If you can, setup a second SSID and connect each Mac Book to a different SSID and see if you can still connect via VNC. Ideally, if you really want to seperate them, I would go with what Ron said and create two seperate VlAN's and block them of with access control entries. Hope this helps you on your quest. SleepyMan 

You can and most likely will need to use a native VLAN on your trunk ports, at least on Cisco switches, other vendors do it differently. But what you have to remember that the security risk is more to do with VLAN 1 (default VLAN) being set as a native VLAN. You should change the native VLAN from being VLAN 1 to a new VLAN that you create. The native VLAN is used for a lot of management data such as DTP, VTP and CDP frames and also BPDU’s for spanning tree. When you get a brand new switch, VLAN 1 is the only VLAN that exists, this also means that all ports are members of this VLAN by default. If you are using VLAN 1 as your native VLAN, you have all the ports that you haven't configured to be part of this VLAN. So if an attacker connects to a port that is not used and not configured (because it's not used), he has straight away access to your management VLAN and can read and inject packets that could allow VLAN hopping or capture packets you don't want him/her to see, or worse, SSH into your switches/routers (never allow telnet). The advice is always to not use VLAN 1, so if an attacker or unwanted client connects and ends up on VLAN 1 and there is nothing configured on this VLAN, such as a useable gateway, they are pretty much stuck and can't go anywhere, while you native VLAN is something like VLAN 900 which is less likely to have any port access as it isn't the default VLAN. Alot of engineers do not disable unused ports and using VLAN 1 for important stuff leaves you in a situation where the access is open unless you use something like 802.1x. Engineers/Network admins forget and you have a little security hole that can benefit an attacker. If your VLAN 1 is not used and ports are left as default, it's not such a big deal because it is not used. Hope this helps you on your quest. SleepyMan