The Net Use command will only show me what drives that only I have mapped when I am logged into the server. What is the easiest way to see all mapped drives for all users and the status of the drives? Thanks. EDIT I'm specifically looking for all disconnected drives for all users that are not longer valid so I can disconnect them. I believe the old disconnected mapped drives are causing problems regarding Outlook and inserting attachments to emails. EDIT AGAIN (WHY NOT?) My original thought was that someone, somewhere created a tool that displayed this information, and that I was just unable to find it. 

As the question states, what are the drawbacks of making every capable Windows 2003 or 2008 Server in my organization a domain controller for the domain? Is it just overkill? Will many 3rd party applications explode? Something else I'm not thinking of? Are there any advantages? 

I am adding a new basic disk partition to my Exchange 2007 Windows Server 2003 64bit server to add more storage groups. It is a RAID 1 Array. I know Exchange 2007 has it's own search indexing service, which is on by default and needed. On clients, I always disable the indexing service on the drives by either disabling the Windows Search service or unchecking the "Allow Indexing Service to index this disk for fast file searching" checkbox in the drive properties window. I do this because, in my experience, the index service just eats up resources and turning it off generally isn't even noticeable to the users. I cannot find any documentation regarding this service and if it would affect Exchange 2007 mailboxes and storage groups if it is disabled. Right now it is enabled on the new drive, but the drive is completely empty as of right now. Can I disable it or should I not worry about it? Any performance gains I can gain are always welcome. Thanks! 

Thinking about installing it on our Windows Server 2003 Terminal Server, but I cannot find any documentation if it work correctly in that environment. I'd want it to be the default renderer for all of our users within IE8. Thanks! 

Can anyone suggest an alternative to the Windows Remote Desktop Client for Windows 2000 Professional that will allow for a screen resolution larger than the fixed 1600 x 1200? I am trying to get to 1920x1080. The target server is Windows Server 2003. Thanks! 

I have an existing SMTP server on our network that is used to send emails from a variety of printers, applications, etc... I have installed the IIS SMTP Server on a new Windows Server 2012 R2 server to replace the current SMTP server in use. To set it up, I copied the settings from the existing SMTP server almost exactly, except for the change in internal IP address. We have an SPF record so that we can send emails without the use of a smarthost or routing through our mail provider. We have had no problems with it. To avoid updating our SPF record, we set up our Sonicwall rules to route both SMTP servers' outgoing email to appear to be from the same external address, smtp.domain.com. This what our NAT rules look like: Internal (smtp.domain.com) 192.168.1.2 -> 68.68.68.68 (smtp.domain.com) Internal (primarysmtp.domain.com) 192.168.1.3 -> 68.68.68.68 (smtp.domain.com) We changed a printer to use the new SMTP server (primarysmtp.domain.com) for testing. The emails are received by the SMTP server and put in the Queue folder, which is good. Now, we cannot get these emails to send. I downloaded the SMTPDIAG tool for testing. At first I thought it was a DNS issue, but that checks out on the test. It will not connect to the target email provider. 

I was able to successfully load Windows Server 2008 on an HP DL380 G2, which is not officially supported by HP. It seems to be working perfectly fine, except for the fact I cannot locate any network drivers that will work so I really cannot do anything with the server yet. The server includes 2 HP NC3163 Fast Ethernet NIC's. I've searched high and low for anything that could potentially make these NIC's work with Windows Server 2008, but haven't had any luck yet. Should I quit my search and get a cheap gigabit card to put in one of the open PCI slots or is there some mysterious network driver resource I cannot locate? 

Take a look at this link and see if it helps you out: $URL$ It is for SQL Compact 3.5 though. Quoted below from this link: $URL$ 

I've read everything I can find online, but I cannot find a simple answer to this question. I have Windows Server 2012 Standard installed using a volume license product key. The official product name is Windows Srv 2012 Standard MAK B in the Microsoft Volume Licensing Service Center. Can I use Hyper-V on that server to create a new virtual server running Windows Server 2012 Standard and use the same exact volume license product key to activate it? Simply put, can the physical server and the virtual server use the exact same product key? My intuition says that it won't work for some reason, but I haven't found anything written in plain English that proves it won't. I hope I'm wrong, and it would work! 

If you are trying to deny access to your website to anyone but your VPN users, you could lock down your entire network from the outside world and only allow the VPN connection. Once your users connect to the VPN, they could access any internal websites you have running by either accessing them by IP address or url and validate their referring IP address either in code or by way of IIS to allow or disallow further access. 

This is a bit of a broad question, so this is a broad-stroked answer. In general, a NAS is more of an appliance than a server. The OS is not as full featured as a dedicated server OS, but it has an interface to let you share files. A common feature is to have different RAID levels (0 & 1 almost always, 10 and 5 common) available for data availability. This increases uptime, since a single drive failure (other than RAID 0) will allow you to continue to work. It is not backup, since if you lose the NAS in a fire, you've lost everything. There are plenty of other features, but I'm sure that there are other better descriptions of NAS elsewhere. The good news is that less features generally means less care and feeding over time. But there's also less functionality as well. You won't necessarily be able to install any arbitrary application on it, like SQL Server. In your case, since you're talking about a file-server replacing NT (!), a simple NAS may be worth considering. The big questions that only you can answer are how much downtime are you willing to accept, and how much are you willing to spend to mitigate that risk. 

You can configure User and Computer settings in Windows 2003 with Group Policy and Group Preferences, just as in Windows 2008. This may solve some of your configuration issues. Going into all of the details of Group Policy and Preferences is beyond the scope of a simple answer, but Google will be your friend here. Also, each version of the Windows client increases the capability of Group Policy, so you will need to be diligent in verifying that you can accomplish what you want in Windows XP. Group Policy alone won't necessarily solve your problems, at least not without extensive scripting. If you're having problems with programs being installed as a non-admin, you'll likely need to augment Group Policy with other tools. If the problem is people installing programs as local admins, then removing local admins permissions should be your priority before any of this work. As for games, are you talking about online, or installed? Again, Group Policy won't necessarily solve, say, Flash games. There are other network tools to prevent that. Depending on how much of a problem this is, you may need to step up to system management tools, such as Kace or Microsoft System Center. Again, beyond the scope of a simple answer, but this should get you started. 

Unless you have a very compelling reason, I would split off some of your services on VM2, so that a problem in SQL doesn't knock out your file server, filling the file server knocks out your IIS, etc. With the thin-provisioned disk (as ewwhite recommends), you should still have plenty of room for everything. 

I'm at my wits' end on this one. Scenario End-user is trying to print at home to her wireless printer, a LaserJet Pro M1217nfw. Every time she tries to connect, it asks for admin privileges to install the driver. After some research, I find this article: $URL$ I make the changes to the two printer classes in Group Policy. I've ensured that the GPO has been applied to the laptop. Using a laptop with the same GPO, I was able to get my home USB printer to connect (using my normal user privs, no elevation). Great! When my user tries it at home, though, she isn't able to get any farther than a UAC prompt. This happens when she tries to do this wirelessly or via a USB port to tes. My theory is that I need to add another device type. If there is a way for me to determine what Device Class that printer is asking for, I suspect I could just add the GUIDs to the GPO, but I don't know how to determine that. Nothing is leaping out at me in Event Viewer. So: 1.) What am I doing wrong for laptops accessing home printers? OR 1A.) Is this not a best practice at all to let users install printers on work laptops? If that's the case, how do you manage users' home printing? 2.) If my solution is just to add a Device Class, how do I find out what Device Class a peripheral is identifying itself? 

By request, I'm breaking this out of a comment... WesleyDavid's solution (using PowerShell, presumably in combination with Group Policy/Preferences) is the best solution to fit the problem as described, but that may not be the best solution overall. The questioner should probably consider a dedicated systems management package. If management wants to prioritize ease-of-use for the tech, then it may make more sense to use Altiris, Microsoft System Center, KACE, etc. to accomplish this goal. They're more likely to give reporting that management will like (X% of workstations had program Y installed) and help the less-skilled techs. Also, while a bespoke collection of scripts will give maximum flexibility, the system management packages can probably get you most of the way to your goal in a fraction of the time. If you should run into some particular issue, there's more likely to be a community of support and consultants that can help you out. The trade-off, of course, is money. But given that the questioner is mid-level IT, it may be more useful for him to work on other issues with a more direct business need than to work in an area that has is more of a commodity. My network is smaller than many here, I'm sure: around 120 PCs, 20 servers. I've done scripts and GPOs because I've had to, but we're looking to get one of these up just for the patch management and easier reporting to the powers-that-be.