The User Guide of the HP DL380 Gen8 goes into a little more detail in the extra-fan-issue and suggest that installing the additional fan without a second processor is not going to work: For a single-processor configuration, four fans and two blanks are required in specific fan bays for redundancy. A fan failure or missing fan causes a loss of redundancy. A second fan failure or missing fan causes an orderly shutdown of the server. Installing more than the required number of fans in a single-processor configuration is not a supported configuration. For a dual-processor configuration, six fans are required for redundancy. A fan failure or missing fan causes a loss of redundancy. A second fan failure or missing fan causes an orderly shutdown of the server. 

For Windows, The most straightforward option out there (from the ones that I tested) is a commercial solution called RdpGuard. There's also one solution called IPBan, although I never tried that one. You can also secure RDP requiring client certificates, check this article. More interesting articles about securing RDP against brute force attacks: Automatically block RDP attacks on your Windows Server 2008 Automatically banning IPs with Windows Firewall after scanning the eventlog 

There are various options like NaCl, fireSSH and as you already mentioned Shell In A Box. I'd personally recommend the last one if you need it for pentesting purposes, since it's the only one that actually uses SSL/TLS and would not trigger an alert in any IPS/Deep Packet Inspection device. (Most of these tools will trigger an alert since they are just browser based SSH or non SSL traffic through port 443) 

A couple of things that you can try with Group Policy are the following: -Set up a fake proxy, and add the internal servers URLS in the "Bypass Proxy Server for Local Addresses" list. This can be easily circunvent if your users manage to install another browser that is not affected by group policies. -You can add a bogus route to 0.0.0.0, and then appropiate routes for all your internal subnets. You can achieve this using Group policy preferences and adding to the registry the list of routes under or by adding a logon script with the apropiate commands. You can also enforce a fake DNS server and distribute a custom hosts file with the required servers from a network share, however, this may be become hard to manage in the long term. 

You can accomplish this with a router/firewall with a feature called Policy Based Routing. With this you could make a rule like: When traffic is coming from my mail server AND the destination port is 25, send the traffic through this ISP. 

According to the HP DL360 G6 User Guide, the fan 2 is only necessary when the second processor is present: 

The delegation tab is used to allow users to manage group policies (Create group policies, edit them, link them to OUs or enforce them). That tab is not useful to define which user is going to be actually affected by the policy In order to make the policies effective, you must add the groups to which you want to apply the policies in the Security Filtering tab. This Technet article may help you: Security filtering using GPMC 

This has an added value, since you will not loose the current user session and hence when you unlock the workstations you are going to be able to see if he was trying to do something nasty before being escorted to the door. All credits to Command Line Kung Fu Blog. There's a bunch of crazy security/forensics related things in there! UPDATE: The first two steps are intended for local users, in an active directory environment is actually easier, disable the account and change the password in AD, and then run the 3rd command against the malicious user IP address. 

For Linux, auditd it's a well tested solution. Windows has builtin tools for auditing file access. Use this tools carefully, auditing can impact on the server's performance if not used wisely. 

Sonicwall can also block traffic based on App Control rules (assuming that you have this feature licensed), you can disable this temporarily to ensure that this isn't affecting HTTPS traffic: Disabling Application Control on LAN zone: 

DNS is not responsible for that and does not have that capability. Some kind of URL rewriting mechanism in the web server is the one doing the redirect from HTTP to HTTPS by issuing a 301 redirect response to the original request. 

However, as you stated, it will only secure your RDP connections. I guess a VPN is an obvious solution, but since you didn't mention it I assume that is not what you are looking for. You can reduce the attack surface with one or more of these: 

Check with if SELinux context is the same in /etc/named.conf and /var/named/chroot/etc/named.conf. If is not, use chcon with the --reference option to set the chrooted named.conf the same as the regular named.conf, with something like this: 

The results of step 4 list all virtual machine configuration files. Search the results for the name of a virtual machine file you are interested in locating. The results also list the path to the directory where these files are located. By viewing the configuration file of a virtual machine you can tell where all of its associated files, including .vmdk files, are located. If a file is not in the same directory as the configuration file the complete path is shown in the configuration file. For example, a second hard disk may have an entry such as the one shown below: 

Although is not what you are asking for, I will suggest another approach to test the new server. If you put a load balancer in front of both servers and play with the load balancing algorithms you can at the same time test the new server and gradually replace the old one. You can send 99% of the requests to the old server and the remaining one percent of requests will go to the new one where you can closely review if the service is working as expected. If everything works fine you can increase the load gradually; 90%-10%, 80%-20%, and so on. Hint: Check haproxy and the and options. 

Weird, that rule should be enough to make it work, the required routes are automatically created in the Sonicwall for trusted interfaces. Is the option enabled in the WLAN Zone? Try starting from the step 2 on this document. Sonicwall UTM - Wireless: How to allow TCP communications between Wireless (Authenticated to SonicPoints) and Wired Hosts connected to the same network without using Layer2 bridge Mode. 

Always check the SELinux context of the files that are accessible with , then use with the option to copy the context to other files. 

Don't know exactly why it's not being redirected, however, you can try to block all empty user agents with this rule: 

Well, disabling SELinux it's just a temporary workaround, not a solution. We don't wan't to make Dan Walsh cry ;) Try one of these options: 

It's a good practice to create a dedicated account for some services, specially when they are accessible over the internet or any untrusted network. So if somebody exploits a security flaw in Tomcat it's not going to compromise the whole system. (Unless he manages to escalate privileges, but that's another story) From the Security Considerations section of Tomcat documentation: 

*1.2.3.4 = I replaced my IP address with this fake IP. I don't need any more strange packets knocking my door :) 

The default location is /vmfs/volumes/ From vmware documentation: Determining the location of all your virtual machine files: From the Command Line To determine the location of all your virtual machine files from the command line: Log into the VMware ESX/ESXi host as the root user. For more information on VMware ESX Service Console, see Unable to connect to an ESX host using Secure Shell (SSH) (1003807). For more information on VMware ESXi Technical Support Mode, see Tech Support Mode for Emergency Support (1003677). For more information on VMware ESXi 4.1 - 5.0 Technical Support Mode, see Using Tech Support Mode in ESXi 4.1 and ESXi 5.0 (1017910). Type vmware-cmd -l to list the location of the configuration files for the virtual machines registered on an ESX host. Type vim-cmd vmsvc/getallvms to list the location of the configuration files for the virtual machines registered on an ESXi host. Record the location of the .vmx file (configuration file) for the virtual machine you are troubleshooting. For example: 

Check this resource for a deeper understanding of SSH tunneling: $URL$ UPDATE: If you need multiple clients accessing Machine A's port 5900 via the server like this: 

Here is an excelent article explaining in detail how to use this feature: Exchange 2010 Administrator Logging walk-through 

Windows Server 2012 has a new feature called Data Deduplication which can be worth to try. You can install this feature from Powershell as follows: 

Mod_Security may be what you are looking for. The default rules blocks this kind of requests, here is an example of a reconnaissance being blocked found in my debug logs: Message: Access denied with code 403 (phase 2). Pattern match "^[\d.:]+$" at REQUEST_HEADERS:Host. [file "/etc/httpd/modsecurity.d/activated_rules/modsecurity_crs_21_protocol_anomalies.conf"] [line "98"] [id "960017"] [rev "2"] [msg "Host header is a numeric IP address"] [data "1.2.3.4"] [severity "WARNING"] [ver "OWASP_CRS/2.2.6"] [maturity "9"] [accuracy "9"] [tag "OWASP_CRS/PROTOCOL_VIOLATION/IP_HOST"] [tag "WASCTC/WASC-21"] [tag "OWASP_TOP_10/A7"] [tag "PCI/6.5.10"] [tag "$URL$ 

You will need to forwards UDP ports 500 and 4500 to the TZ300, since Sonicwall uses IPSEC for GVC clients. You should not need another firewall or NAT rule to allow GVC clients to the LAN, however, your users will need to have the propers Subnets/Address Objects in the VPN Access tab of the User/Group properties. 

Mbox is fast when searching a text inside a mailbox and appending a new mail into the mail file, but it's prone to mail corruption and may have problems with network file systems. Also, File locking may be an issue. With Maildir, retrieving specific mails is faster, and has no issues due to file locking or network file systems (Example: With Maildir, you can store different mail folders in different NFS shares, this cannot be achieved with Mbox). You can have issues with Maildir when a filesystem is not efficient handling a large number of files. I understand that you need an scalable solution, before you choose one or another, be sure to give a read to this document: (Even if you are not using Courier) Benchmarking mbox versus maildir 

Although not supported, you can try to either remove the IP address of the new server from in the Synology NAS (if is there for some reason, like a fail2ban rule) or add it to 

Asterisk already has builtin methods to handle NAT related issues. Take a look at this article. If you still wan't to proxify, you can try SaRP, which seems to work for both SIP and RTP. 

Yes, you can use your existing AD infraestructure. The exchange installation is going to require an additional step in the DC: Launch an elevated command prompt and run the following command: D:\setup /PrepareAD (asuming that you have the Exchange installation CD in D:) 

There is not such thing as an exploit based on reverse TCP, reverse TCP is only the way in which attacker get's a communication channel with the exploited host. You can try to minimize the chances that an attacker opens a reverse connection using outbound firewall rules that prevents your servers to access ports that they don't need. Even if your server needs to have ports opened and services published, that does not means that has to have irrestricted access to the outside world, I would recommend blocking everything except maybe SMTP if it is a mail server and if you need HTTP/HTTPS do it through a proxy. This would prevent your server to open a reverse connection to serve a remote shell to the attacker's IP address. Also, most Intrusion Prevention Systems would raise an alert when they see abnormal outbound traffic. The best would be of course, prevent that the exploited service is compromised in first place, by following the hardening guides of the vendor, using service accounts with the minimun required privilege to run those services, and keeping your software up to date. Almost every exploit module that you will find in MSF is already patched by the vendor by the time that it is published.