Which means that it is an automatic option, based on the amount of Ram that you have in your Macbook. And... according to at least one person who upgraded from 8gb to 16gb, it doesn't increase any more than 512mb. So, the best you could do would be to upgrade to 8gb of Ram. 

First... if you are fullscreen in your session, the Windows key works like you would expect on the remote computer. So, you are talking about if you have the remote session in a window, and not fullscreen. But, if BEFORE you hit the Connect button on the Remote Desktop Client, you click the Options button, and then hit the Local Resources tab, you can there decide where to apply the Windows key combinations. Specifically, in FUll Screen, on the local machine, or on the Remote Machine. Microsoft did appear to take the Windows Key into specific consideration here. Why? Because of exactly what you mention. So, you set that option to be Remote Machine, and then connect. Whenever you minimize the remote window, the Windows key works on the local machine like it should. 

Remember how you had to install the drivers and software in Windows 7 in order to use this... before you could use this? How exactly did you install the drivers and software for it with the Chrome OS? 

As long as you don't mind any hard drive you use in that model being restricted to SATA-I specifications, you will be all right. Will that drive work? Sure. Will it work at SATA-II specifications? Nope. 

So, again, what you apparently want to do is force a check for critical updates. If you believe that this non-browser based option will allow you to browse through all potential updates, you are mistaken, and should use the standard Windows Update. 

This does not exclude the possibility of a part arriving defective. It happens all the time, and I'm pretty sure that almost everyone participating on a Stack Exchange site has either gotten a bad part purchased as new, or they know someone who has. So, you cannot use this as a reason to assume that one or more of the parts used are not defective. Second... 

..and it worked perfectly for me. Now, I didn't do it from the same directory structure as you had set up (c:\files\ffmpeg). Do you have ffmpeg installed anywhere else on the computer? Have you considered trying a previous build/version? What about 32 bit vs. 64 bit... or vice versa? Is this the first time you've used this version of ffmpeg? Or... has it worked perfectly up until now? Have you tried renaming the input file (silly, I know)? 

Unfortunately, you haven't provided enough information to really diagnose the issue, and you already recognize that this is going to be related to specific hardware, and thus specific hardware issues. In other words, since you are seeing that nothing visible to your WiFi adapter in your computer seems to be producing a very strong signal, your issue could specifically be the WiFi adapter in your computer. It could be that you are using a Macbook Pro with a metal case, which will actually reduce WiFi signal strength (in and out). It could be that one of the two WiFi antenna connections on the WiFi card in the laptop (assuming you have a notebook) is loose or damaged or not connected. If you are using a desktop with a wireless card that has an external antenna, the mini coax connection to the antenna could be damaged. You would need to obtain a USB WiFi dongle, and test the signal strength with that. Why? Well, although not all USB WiFi dongles are created equal, it would be a second independent WiFi adapter to compare the signal strengths to. If the problem was in no way related to the first adapter in your computer, then you would see little to no difference in the signal strengths. However, if you used a second, USB dongle and you saw greatly increased signal strengths, that would tell you where the problem most likely was. Again, this is all guess work, considering we don't know what kind of computer you have, what kind of wireless adapter you are currently using, what condition that adapter is in, what condition the antenna connections are in, etc. So, you really need to perform more diagnostics on your end (AKA, the second wireless adapter). You also need to provide more information on your hardware. Although that would make the solution a lot more specific to your situation, it also might shed light on others with your same hardware that are experiencing similar issues. 

These things being true, I would say that either the hard disc controller on the motherboard is faulty, or your test drive is faulty. Test the unit with a different hard drive... one you know works. I don't mean one you believe strongly should work because it worked the last time you checked, or one that you pulled because it threw errors but you can still access data from when connected via USB converter. I mean a drive you know that works properly the way it should. If the laptop continues to hang at the BIOS regardless of how many different hard drives you connect, then chances are the controller on the board is bad which would mean it needs a motherboard replacement... and barring getting a new motherboard cheap on eBay, probably means this laptop is relegated to testing and neat experiments with Linux LiveCDs. If the laptop boots normally with a different hard drive, then you know the hard drive was the issue. As a side note, eliminate RAM as a possible suspect. Yes, I know... it doesn't seem like Ram is the issue, and honestly, I doubt it is. But, it would not hurt to let it run for a while on a CD of Memtest86 

Method A. Open the spread sheet. Choose Save As. Save it as a different name (or in Google Docs, "Make a copy". Open that new copy. Delete the columns you do not want. Save and close. Open the original. Delete the columns that would enable you to make this a different sheet. In other words... you have excel sheet detail_data.xls. It has 6 columns... a through f. You wish to move a, c, and d to a new sheet. Create a copy of the spread sheet. On the new sheet, delete b, e, and F. On the old sheet, delete a, c, and d. You now have a new sheet with just the columns you wanted. Method B. Select and copy the columns you want on a new sheet. Open new sheet. Paste columns into new sheet. EDIT Unless you read this and you realize that you didn't explain what you really wanted to do, or that you explained it incorrectly... 

... did you take apart the laptop to get between the fan and the heatsink, or did you just take a can of compressed air and blow it into the exhaust port to push the dust back into the fan to break it up? Running the fan long enough without free flowing air can speed up the process of wearing down the bearings in the fan (if it isn't a bearing-free fan) or burn out the lubricant in a bearing-less fan. Which means if you wait long enough, you might need to replace the fan as well as cleaning the cooling channel. I'm not disagreeing with you about the fact that your laptop won't shed heat well... I've got a Toshiba Satellite A75 upstairs that comes with a warning sticker to not use the laptop on your lap because of how hot the P4 3.33ghz processor gets... and that's a dual fan model. The heat sink mounts to the motherboard, so there is always heat bleeding back into the system (as opposed to the newer designs where there is a cut away for the heat sink to avoid just that). Overheating will also degrade the thermal paste/pad on the processor, so by the time the unit needs to be cleaned, it needs to be re-pasted as well. That will help shunt some of the heat off the processor faster. Now, you can undervolt most processors without going into the BIOS with a utility called RMClock. But don't just download it from there. There is actually a nice and comprehensive guide to undervolting here at notebookreview.com that includes using two utilities to monitor what you are doing. It's worth giving it a read-thru, and following along to see if you can indeed undervolt your processor succcessfully, and drop those temperatures. EDIT You said you finally got this working, and that it was not very effective. At this point I'd have to ask what your temperatures were before, and what they were afterwards. Because, you really only could expect 5 to 10 degrees C reduction from the procedure. At any rate, you now want information on software underclocking... which brings us back to Kyle's comment. It's worth a shot looking though, right? I'll start you off, but at this point, it boils down to basic research... and by that I mean using a search engine and looking for terms like "overclocking software". Doing something like that would bring you to a site like this, listing 15 overclocking tools. Since you mentioned AMD Overdrive, you should actually try it. You said you had "seen" it, but that was all you mentioned about it. However, if it does not work with your system, you might not have much luck with any of the other programs you find. I'm the kind of person who would take apart the hardware, and clean it until it was like new, and then assemble it to the point where it worked like it was new. I am still convinced that attempting to find this software solution is just a bandage fix. The fact that you won't supply any concrete information (pictures, temperatures, etc) just adds to that. But, at any rate, I wish you luck in the underclocking. 

Now.... after ALL that nonsense from them, there is THIS page for the USB and Parallel port Windows 98 drivers. However, if you would like to take their advice, Iomegaware 4.0.2 will work with Windows 98 according to this download page. So, you have a choice there. Download just the drivers so you can see the drive in Windows 98, and then have no Iomega tools to manipulate the drive or data.... or download the Iomegaware software like they recommend. All this information is courtesy of the Iomega web site. 

You could always get a 4 pin to 6 pin converter like One of these. and take one of the extra 4 pin molex that are always left over, and make it into the 6 pin you need. You aren't splitting the existing 6 pin that way. 

Ok. The screenshot of your port forwarding page shows you were working in the correct direction. What you need to do is determine which internal IP address is being assigned to your computer by your router. However... since this address can be different if you allow the router to assign it randomly, what you need to do is tell the router what internal IP address you want for your computer EVERY time, and then assign that address in the port forwarding page. Whaat? Huh? lol. Ok. Click the Setup, on your router Admin page there. You will see the button for DHCP reservation table. Once it opens, look at the table of the currently connected computers by their name and MAC address. There, on that table, you can tell the router to assign a specific internal IP address to your computer. Say... 192.168.1.101 and why that? Well, you'll probably never connect 100 computers to your router. Now, by using the DHCP reservation table, you ensure that every time you start your computer, it gets the address of 192.168.1.101 and this is important, because now when you go over to the port forwarding tab, you can put a 101 in that one box you can change.... you know, the box that currently has a 0 in it. This way, you are telling the router to forward all traffic on port 9, to the computer at 192.168.1.101.... which is the internal IP address you assigned to your computer in the DHCP reservation table. Follow? 

Ok. Your ADSL modem has router software as part of it's firmware. This is why the router gets an internal IP address from the modem that seems to make it just another device. So, what you do is change the IP subnet that the Linksys router passes out, to coincide with the IP subnet that the modem passes out. Make the Linksys router just an AP point. This means that if your Modem will pass out more than two or five IP addresses, then it can handle the DHCP for your network. Otherwise, you can set up the Linksys router to handle DHCP for a range of... I dunno... everything above 100 (192.168.1.100 and up) but the gateway would STILL be 192.168.1.1. That would be the modem. This means that all your connected computers would be on the subnet of 192.168.1.x and you would be able to connect to the Linksys router by connecting to 192.168.1.2 and the modem by 192.168.1.1 without having to manually change a thing. EDIT because I have to assume if you are asking for a solution to avoid having to manually change your address, that you are currently having the Linksys router pass out a different subnet... meaning all the devices connected to the router are getting internal addresses of... I dunno... 192.168.2.x or 192.168.3.x or 10.0.0.x or whatever. The point is, you can change that subnet range that is being passed out from the Linksys router to match what is being passed out by the modem. EDIT 2 Ok. From what you said, you should essentially be all set and good to go... except that your phone isn't getting an IP address. First... the Linksys should be connected to the modem in one of the standard LAN ports, as opposed to the Internet port that is on the router. From the initial basic setup page that you see when you first connect to the router's admin panel, you should be set up for Automatic Configuration DHCP. The Local IP address should be set to one that it normally gets from the modem (192.168.1.2 should suffice). Now. if you want the modem to handle passing out the IP addresses, you should have DHCP disabled from there. But again, the modem might only be configured to pass out a small number of IP addresses, which could explain why the phone can't get one. So, to configure the router to pass out IP addresses, you could Enable DHCP from that page in the router, set the starting address to be something like 192.168.1.100, and a Maximum number of users to be 50 (that should be default). If you Enable DHCP, the router wants some DNS numbers. Well, you can put 192.168.1.1 as the first one, since that would be telling the router to use your Modem for DNS. You could also put in others, like Google DNS (8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4) or you could get the actual DNS that your ISP uses (from their support website). But that should enable your router to pass out IP addresses as well.