I can not be 100% sure about this special controller - I don't know which chipset and firmware it uses, but most products of this making use the last sector(s) of the disk as a canary: 

The Linux kernel will aggressivly use RAM to cache block I/O (i.e. disk requests). RAM is no good after all, if it's not used. When an application needs RAM, the kernel will just drop clean caches to make it available with very low latency In fact just think "This part of RAM is available for your applications, but while you don't need it, we might just as well make it usefull in the meantime" 

etc, you see my points. So, for a smalle environment, direct connections will be most effective, but if you need advanced features, a print server will be the tool of chice. 

This implies, that the switch needs no work whatever to manage the transition from a single IP to a subnet (whether a /28, /29 or /30): On a packet level nothing changes. A routing change is needed, as on the IP level things do not stay the same. But you might not need a physical appliance: Depending on your needs you might be able to use a virtual router or even no new one at all (by keeping your current router for a single IP and VLAN-ing the others directly to their servers). Providing more detail will allow us to answer the router question in more detail. 

This should work.. Replace your execute statement with either of the following: If you like the parentheses try... 

You would need to know the scan code (section Power Saving) for the power button key. Once you have this, then you could use software like AutoHotkey to overwrite the behavior of the buttons scancode to execute a command or batch file once the button is pressed. 

There are tutorials online that will help you get there. However, that's beyond the scope of your questions. Question number 2 can be done pragmatically once you have the streams on the page from #3 above within the server setup. Hope this helps get you somewhere. If all else fails there's always Twitch. 

You would need to know the exchange server's address for SMTP access. Once known, This can be achieved by connecting to the server on port 25 and using the "Date" Permanent Mail Header Field Registration keyword within the DATA (Body) of the email when composing. For example: 

Sounds like you're almost there.. However, this is potentially one of those issues that could have multiple causes. So first and foremost you'll need to verify that SQL Server configuration manager has SQL Server configured to listen on the correct interfaces (the external one too if needed) Due to firewalls, you may want to consider statically setting the listener port to ensure that the next time the server starts it doesn't potentially listen on different one and register itself with SQL Server browser with new port information (which will potentially be firewalled too =) ). You'll need to also verify that SQL server browser service IS RUNNING and its listener ports ARE ALSO not firewalled or SERVER\Instance will not work within connection strings. The purpose of this service is to resolve named instances to their respective listening ports for incoming client connections that use server\instance within their connection strings (Kind of like a "DNS server" in a way but mapping named instances with their port numbers instead) since you can have multiple named instances running on one machine. Anyhow, let me know if this helps . Thanks for posting. Reference: SQL Server TCP and UDP Ports 

To achieve this, you need the parameter in your exports file, together with you can even chose which user to assign the files to. Even Windows users can be integrated via the and similar directives on Samba. 

Typically they are not. We always run our HP servers with bog standard RAM from whatever vendor. There are a few pitfalls though: Some vendors use "convincors" to make you fork out extorionate prices - for example you lose the "HP Smart Memory" feature (whatever good this does). Not all vendors are honest with their specs - double and triple check, that your Rank count, registered/registered, etc. match what you actually have, not what the vendor says. 

Most likely you are either on a mobile internet access or on a less often use of cable. With both, an intermediary network of 10.x.x.x is used between the feeding point at the ISP side and your modem/router. With mobile, this is traditionally used to make cell-switchover (e.g. a driving car) easier to manage. 

It is the job of a file system driver ( in your case) to abstract away the physical location of a file's blocks from an application accessing the file. This implies, that the choice of copy utility will not make much of a difference. What does make a difference, especially with NTFS, is the free space percentage - and this is very low indeed in your example. Your results will be much better, if the FS is not filled over the 70% mark. So, basically: Your fragmentation problem stems from a too full NTFS volume. 

The expected permission output should be a 4 character octal formated value but looks like perl's sprint function is improperly displaying the multidimensional array value which is displaying garbage. 

I believe it's possible on Macs. You should be able to use the following command which should include the encoding within the output listing. 

Works everytime! You should even be able to use the script to troubleshoot/debug any env variables which you may feel are unset etc ... also the handling arguments being passed into ssh will work as well.. Note: Its Best Practice to always FULLY QUALIFY the paths for any scripts, executables, etc.. Above is just an example which allows the default path to be set to call moo.sh within the moo folder ;) That was easy.. Thanks for posting.. Reference: /etc/passwd format 

Perhaps nginx is configured to do ip resolution of incoming requests and is taking time to resolve the incoming connection before actually answering the request. A couple pointers though, you'll want to check the following on 192.168.10.10. 

Verify name servers are correct within /etc/resolv.conf If #1 resolv settings are are correct for primary and secondary nameservers, verify that 192.168.10.10 has the ability to resolve hosts. (simple nslookup to google.com is a good test for this, if timeout occurs then then this could be part of the issue) Ensure that your nginx server has the ability to query name servers externally or internally via firewall (port 53 tcp/udp) Look for potential resolver settings within nginx configuration options and or set resolution timeout setting where applicable and restart nginx. If its still an issue attempt to add the host of the incoming request connection within /etc/hosts on 192.168.10.10. 

You have configured your Windows firewalls to block the Ping, which is the default. Ubuntu does not by default block pings. By opening the Windows Firewall control panel and allowing ICMP types in and out, the Windows machines will be pingable. 

makes it clear, that you created a 3-way mirror set (RAID1) for your OS (md1) and Home (md2). While this provides ample redundancy, it costs you a lot of space. Since you are disk-bound only on , the easiest way is to do a bit of disk-juggling. Caveat: Be advised, that a dead SSD at the wrong point in time will cost you ALL your files - back up and be prepared. That said, I would proceed along the line of 

Linux MD Raid is agnostic of the connection - so directly attaching he disks (or at least one of each leg) to a linux Machine via SATA will work: I did this many times over for data recovery purposes. Even taking the Disks out of the USB enclosure and putting them into 4 separate el-cheapo USB will work. Be also reminded, that a hardware raid controller with out a BBU will not be a signifcant improvement over MD RAID. 

First of all: Yes you can, but it won't make you happy. 10Mbit/s Ethernet uses 2 pairs and works quite well over short distances with the kind of cable shown, you just need to crimp an RJ45 plug on it (using the pairs 1/2 and 3/6). Now 10Mbit/s is not very fast, so you might want to go alternative routes. Assuming The idea behind using this cable is avoiding a recabling, you might want to consider Ethernet over powerlines, this works amazingly well in many home settings, the adapters (Devolo and TP-Link have worked for me) are cheap as chips. EDIT As requested in the comments, a few more details about the needed plugs: Ethernet typically uses RJ45 plugs with 8 pins (1..8) carrying 4 pairs of wires. For historical reasons, these pairs are assigned to the pins this way: 1&2, 3&6, 4&5, 7&8. Older Ethernet connections use only the pairs 1&2 and 3&6. So for a straight-through cable you need to connect pin 1 of one end with pin 1 on the other side, same with pins 2,3 and 6 and for a cross-over cable you need to connect 1-3, 2-6, 3-1, 6-2. If the wires in the cable are paired (i.e. always two are twisted together inside the cable's protective mantle) honor this pairing when connecting the cables. The mechanical process of putting the plug on the cable is called "crimping" and it is easily done with cheap "crimp pliers". If you don't have one, I recommend you just cut a cheap Ethernet patch cable in the middle and solder the two resulting "pigtail" half-cables to the ends of the old cable, using the orange/orange-white and the green/green-white pairs. 

Thanks for the good question. Here's hopefully a good answer. Were you aware that "ping" makes a great tool to provide pause like behavior which you're needing? The example I've provided will give you a 3 second pause. Not sure if it's needed before or after the dir command (Probably before). Anyhow, have fun experimenting with it though. Cheers. 

Your browser is attempting to download a compressed flash object and adobe flash i'snt installed. CWS within the header of the stream is a clear indication of this behavior. Source: $URL$ 

The application will need to be ran on a 64 bit OS. This will require you to upgrade your OS to a 64 bit version. There are alternatives though, VirtualBox, QEMU, are a few virtual machines which will allow you to run 64bit applications on a 32bit host. However, regardless the OS will still need to be a 64bit version install within the Virtual Environment in order to execute 64 bit applications. Good luck. 

These services are defined within the /etc/services file. I believe the port you're looking for is 2049 tcp and udp. Good luck. 

Related to PAM, You would want to research how to implement pam_exec.so to run a script to power off the machine for failed login attempts during authentication. There's a good resource here where someone implemented the same type of setup where he kept track of login counts to determine when the shutdown script should be called. Source: $URL$ Hope this helps. 

First of all: You shouldn't be using an 8 year old OS that has been out of support (and security updates) for 3 years. That said, your machine seems to have 6 network cards configured, and all you need to do is to plug the correct one in - you seem to have used one of the others. With you can check, if the DHCP NIC is connected and at what speed. 

The blog post you quite explicitly states, that 12M sockets use 46GB RAM for the TCP stack - in addition to whatever else is running. If you only have 16GB, then start Tomcat with an application, you end up with simply not enough RAM to accept more connections. The NodeJS figures are similar but not equal, because free RAM is similar but not equal. Upgrade to 128 or 256GB and I suspect it will work fine. 

As counterintuitive as it seems VNC is an option: Run the guest with a VNC console, which you completely ignore, then use X over ssh to do the normal work. We are running this setup with literally hundreds of Linux, BSD and Windows (RDP instead of X) guests and it works fine. You can simply lock down VNC binding to localhost, if you are concerned about the security aspects. 

The most important part is HTTPS. You can easily host more than one HTTP host on a single IP, but hosting multiple HTTPS hosts one a single IP is a road filled with tears. This is true for all services, that use TLS and certificates from different domains. 

Zebra printers do allow you to use custom fonts which can be loaded into the devices firmware. As far as what harrymc pointed out "print barcode type x size y at position z" this language that's used to communicate with zebra printers is called ZPL / EPL. He does make some good points and the language is literally as easy as what I quote him saying. Having experience with Zebra printers and Retail Sales Systems and designing my own UPC label software. There could be a couple reasons which could be causing this issue to occur. I highly doubt it's calibration related though but i'm not ruling that out. In your screenshot you have SKU's that define product within your current point of sale. SKU'S are usually used as UPCs as well when printing labels which allow you to relate your UPC (SKU) with an item within your system. In this case in the screenshots, Is it possible that you are printing the vendor UPC(s) for the actual SKU of your product instead of the SKU (label template with one text field as SKU and barcode field as VendorUPC?) You may have product in your system with multiple vendor upcs. The UPC's look rather similiar which leads me to believe this may be the issue. Hope you find this post useful. 

Know that in order to concatenate string data to something that is an integer datatype, the integer datatype must be casted/converted to a datatype which you can append a string to it , hence varchar. Hope that helps. Good luck.. 

Most BIOS setups do a busy-wait for keypresses in 16bit mode - with thermal management disabled and often no active fan control. This is obviously the worst case for CPU tempreature. 

The miscomprehension is "it could become a mess to have so many accounts in your PC you don't even use." - you actually do use them: To authenticate and then authorize users to access your shares. If you were to delegate this process of authentication and authorization to another machine, there are only two possible outcomes: 

The file system itself uses some space for its structures, and if you have a journaled FS the journal takes up room as well. On such a tiny file system, these few MB can be a sizeable proportion of the total size. A few things to try: 

Now your Video is prolonged to a round second - repeat this with all clips and you can just play them out one after the other. 

The compression ratio of VM snapshot is heavily influenced by the data stored in that VM. Just imagine a VM with a big database of mainly (very well compressible) text a.o.t. a VM with lots of JPEG images. That being said, seems to achieve a good compression ratio on many types of data and is supported on almost any platform in existance. For even broader platform support at the cost of a lesser compression ratio go for . 

Nginx with RTMP module (Nginx and RTMP module will need to be compiled via source) FFmpeg (Will potentially need to be compiled from source) A website created with 4 embedded players on a page that can stream rtmp. (MediaElement, JW Player, Flow Player, Native HTML5 are a few players which support rtmp) each player within the page will need to be configured to connect to each client datasource streaming rtmp to the nginx server on the local machine. 

It's not possible... However, If you control+shift+i within a chat session.. you can mark messages with high importance, but this appears to have no effect on the operating system other than an icon change of the chat window within the bottom task bar for that particular users chat session (I don't believe it shakes, nudges, or even buzzes.) 

The easiest way of seeing what you're doing wrong is by substitution. Try using something like "True and False" substitution method in my example, it works for me almost every-time.. Anyhow this is the solution I believe, it was also mentioned above in many other examples. Good luck. 

DIY: If you have an external antenna, Use aluminum foil to degrade the signal as much as you can. Or shape it in a way where you only receive signal from a certain direction. Walk around monitor signal strength and you'll find it pretty quick, likely when you have a full bar you're probably standing on it. No software required, Only eyes. Good luck