Dynamic IPsec Tunnel Between a Statically Addressed ASA and a Dynamically Addressed Cisco IOS Router that uses CCP Configuration Example This configuration enables the PIX Security Appliance to create a dynamic IPsec LAN-to-LAN (L2L) tunnel with a remote VPN router. This router dynamically receive its outside public IP address from its Internet service provider. 

No. Sometimes there is no IP connectivity to the target so a response never arrives, or there may be no TCP protocol stack on the target, or there may be other protocols/services in place to disallow a particular connection. However, if there is IP connectivity, a TCP protocol stack on both hosts, and a default implementation then yes: Connection establishment To establish a connection, TCP uses a three-way handshake. Before a client attempts to connect with a server, the server must first bind to and listen at a port to open it up for connections: this is called a passive open. Once the passive open is established, a client may initiate an active open. To establish a connection, the three-way (or 3-step) handshake occurs: SYN: The active open is performed by the client sending a SYN to the server. The client sets the segment's sequence number to a random value A. SYN-ACK: In response, the server replies with a SYN-ACK. The acknowledgment number is set to one more than the received sequence number i.e. A+1, and the sequence number that the server chooses for the packet is another random number, B. ACK: Finally, the client sends an ACK back to the server. The sequence number is set to the received acknowledgement value i.e. A+1, and the acknowledgement number is set to one more than the received sequence number i.e. B+1. At this point, both the client and server have received an acknowledgment of the connection. The steps 1, 2 establish the connection parameter (sequence number) for one direction and it is acknowledged. The steps 2, 3 establish the connection parameter (sequence number) for the other direction and it is acknowledged. With these, a full-duplex communication is established. 

AAA defines the model of gaining access to a network,e.g., 4gLTE connections, aDSL PPP, PPPoE cable modem, etc. AAA relates to network access (not application access, e.g. email or Facebook). The acronym AAA is in measurable decline according to the below Google Trend Views. Note the differences from perspectives of "computers" vs "telecom". Higher layer (Web) security implementations are trending on the Authentication front, namely SSL/TLS (aka clientless VPN). You see this as a preferred approach in WiFi and VPN access, for example (See Cisco AnyConnect Premium / "clientless SSL VPN"). 

It sounds like you want to implement virtual LANs, VLANs. You will want a multilayer (often called layer 3) switch to do this. If you need more than 48 wired Ethernet ports, get a switch that is capable of stacking into a virtual/logical switch. As for IoT, that is a marketing term, not a technical term. 

Terminate your ISP connections on a router, or routers. These routers plug into an outside switch/VLAN which plugs in to your security appliance. rtrs---switch(outside)---firewall---switch(inside) 

You might look at Cisco Anyconnect automatic login vs DirectConnect. In terms of ASA: Cisco Adaptive Security Virtual Appliance (ASAv) Data Sheet The Adaptive Security Virtual Appliance runs as a virtual machine inside a hypervisor in a virtual host (Figure 1). Most of the features that are supported on a physical ASA by Cisco software are supported on the virtual appliance as well, except for clustering and multiple contexts. The virtual appliance supports site-to-site VPN, remote-access VPN, and clientless VPN functionalities as supported by physical ASA devices. Cisco Adaptive Security Virtual Appliance (ASAv) Quick Start Guide, 9.5 You must install a smart license on the ASAv. Until you install a license, throughput is limited to 100 Kbps so you can perform preliminary connectivity tests. A smart license is required for regular operation. 

Password Recovery Procedure for the Cisco 2000, 2500, 3000, 4000, AccessPro, 7000 (RP), AGS, IGS, and STS-10x Step-by-Step Procedure Complete these steps in order to recover a lost or forgotten password: Attach a terminal or PC with terminal emulation to the console port of the router. Use these terminal settings: The required console cable specifications are described in the Cabling Guide for Console and AUX Ports (Cisco 1000 Series, 2500 Series, and AS5100). If you can access the router, type show version at the prompt, and record the configuration register setting. See Example of Password Recovery Procedure in order to view the output of a show version command. Note: The configuration register is usually set to 0x2102 or 0x102. If you can no longer access the router (because of a lost login or TACACS password), you can safely assume that your configuration register is set to 0x2102. Use the power switch in order to turn off the router, and then turn the router back on. Press Break on the terminal keyboard within 60 seconds of power up in order to put the router into ROMmon. If the break sequence does not work, refer to Standard Break Key Sequence Combinations During Password Recovery for other key combinations. At the prompt, type o, press ENTER, and record the current value of the configuration register (usually 0x2102 or 0x102). 

You need a wired network (Ethernet switches) and a wireless network along with a security appliance / multilayer gateway (ALG). The ISP/WAN is Ethernet handoff. BYOD, LAN Management, IPS/NGFW Controller-based WLANs are outdated. (Biased answer from a Cisco-centric integrator) Get a Meraki MX100, Cisco WS-C2960X-48TS-LL, and (3) Meraki MR32 APs. 

Networks are typically segregated between access and core/distribution devices. Access switches that operate together as a single logical switch are dual homed (2 uplinks or more) to the core/distribution pair of networking devices, which themselves operate as a single logical device. This design allows for no interruption of network service in case of a single uplink or single switch outage, with the exception of the devices plugged in to an access switch that might fail. Servers are typically dual homed to a pair of access switches themselves as well. This is the best design no matter the size. Basically you want everything redundant - redundant networking devices, redundant uplinks between networking devices, and even redundant applications/servers. 

Wipe the config(s) clean and start over. Use what HP calls Trunk Groups to bond uplinks into a single link. Do your inter-vlan routing on the core switch. 

It sounds like a codec mismatch error to me. Ensure that all phones use the g.711 codec and that the voicemail system and voice gateway ports do as well. That should fix it. 

Matt, you need to internetwork your different private networks/locations together with a VPN. Once you have a VPN nailed up, you will be able to www/http into 192.168.1.3 from any of the locations. Specifically, you will be configuring a site-to-site VPN. Looks like you may need the Enterprise License according to the CradlePoint page. 

can i create a network without a router? Yes. The basic component of a network is a link-layer device that several endpoints connect to, for example an Ethernet switch or a WiFi access point. Once the endpoints are connected, they can communicate with one another over the network. 

Cisco UCS is basically simply compute gear (memory, I/O, storage). UCS will not replace Ethernet switches as there is always going to be a need for a box to physically plug the compute gear into. Ethernet is not going away, even though they are trying to rename it to 'Fabric'. Fabric is marketing, Ethernet is IEEE standard. VMWare NSX is simply an overlay networking technology. NSX traffic is tunneled across the underlying IP (layer3) network. So is OTV, and many other fancy new acronyms. The issue with Data Center being the future is at some point the rest of y'all are going to realize, ...wait a minute, why do I want to worry about all this, and you will purchase utility compute from a trusted mega compute player - Google, AWS, OpenShift online, Azure. Learn software, how to create it, how to automate mundane tasks. There's a future in Web development (lots of meat left on the Microsoft corpse). Follow the mega vendors and most importantly the Standards bodies (IETF, ONF, W3C, etc). You absolutely must become skilled in IP,JavaScript,HTML,CSS,and SQL + NoSQL databases. I can't speak to Python as I have no interest in it at this time. 

The ACL is going to catch layer 3 stuff. DHCP happens largely at Layer 2 (link layer). You will often see on the LAN/subnet interface directing DHCP request on to a remote server. That ACL line is in there probably becuase there is an overall ACL on that interface and they had to add that line to allow the DHCP request to reach the remote server (to bypass the explicit at the end of the ACL). 

An IP-based voice call requires 2 connections - establishment/control as well as payload/voice. Once the call is established, your conference phone is sending voice/media packets directly to the PSTN gateway (and gw to phone). This is probably a routing or a resource (codec/capacity) issue. 

Don't use DHCP for the server hosting the service or configure the ACL to allow access to the service for all hosts. Lastly, you might consider Configuring IP Session Filtering (Reflexive Access Lists).