You create an A record in your DNS management web-page/app/config-file for your domain name that points to the externally-visible IP-address of your server (usually your NAT router's external IP-address) I'm assuming you mean domain in the sense of DNS not in the sense of Windows network server authentication. 

If you open a command prompt window (cmd) and type you may see a "connection specific DNS suffix" and " DNS Suffix Search List" which have been obtained from a DHCP server (e.g. your Internet router) and is appended to any unqualified name when performing DNS lookups. You will also see "DNS servers", again provided by DHCP. The built in will also show this. If any of these are wrong, it suggests your DHCP server isn't sending the info it should (I once added a router for a second ADSL line and forgot to disable DHCP in the old router) However if it doesn't get an acceptable answer from DNS, Windows then tries NetBIOS Name Services. Using a network sniffer such as WireShark can make it clear what DNS queries are being sent, with what suffixes and to which DNS servers. 

In workgroup mode I believe Windows filesharing depends in part on broadcasts, these broadcasts are restricted to the local LAN segment. Therefore it is simplest to have all three computers in one LAN segment with a common IP subnet. 

Terminal Emulators Alternatives include Putty, SecureCRT, Reflection and others. These won't significantly change the way the underlying application looks. Screen Scrapers You may be looking for a program that wil interact with your legacy application in the background and present a GUI interface to the users. Search for screen scraper. Examples might include this This could require a fairly major amount of work and cost. GUI conversion Some legacy applications are written in 4GL languages which now have a GUI version. Example. If you have access to the source code for the legacy application then it may be possible to convert it. Again this can involve considerable effort and cost. Some claim it can be relatively simple. Replacement for file-viewing If your terminal emulator is used to "pull up past invoices and reports" that are basically text files (or could be exported as such), it may be relatively easy to install a web-server and make those documents available through a web-browser Replacing a complicated legacy app If the legacy app is a transactional accounting system, replacing it with an existing but different commercial "modern" GUI application may be a major project. 

(from some random web page) A typical small indicator LED is probably designed to draw 20-30 mA. A LED from a torch might be designed to draw 1A or more. Your USB chips certainly won't source or sink high currents on D+. 

The ideal solution is to have an IMAP server for your company, and an IMAP server for your school and for both to be accessible through a remote Internet connection, either directly or through a VPN. You cannot create such a situation if youy only have control of the POP/IMAP client such as FoxMail or Thunderbird. What many email clients do allow is that you can save a copy of sent emails locally (for example to your notebook/laptop hard disk) and save a copy of received emails there too ("offline working") In the worst case you can use your email client to forward all received emails to a private account accessible from all locations. Use BCC to also send it a copy of all outgoing messages. This is quite a lot of effort though. Explore your email client's "offline" capabilities. 

Where POTS indicates a plain old telephone socket. RJ11 means ordinary two-conductor telephone cable with RJ11 plugs at each end. Cat5 means eight-conductor (four pairs) UTP cable with RJ45 plugs at each end. 

You could use awk instead of perl. Grep and awk are in GnuWIn32. Perl can be obtained from Strawberry or ActiveState 

Use an inexpensive audio mixer $20 - $40 is probably cheaper than replacing a sound card. Or use something like Virtual Audio Cable 

On your Ubuntu server, resolv.conf should point at the DNS servers for the Internet Service Provider (ISP) that provides you with internet access (e.g. broadband) - This can be unrelated to any of the servers or businesses mentioned above. 

heroku.com is an external service in the Internet. You don't need to configure your home router to be able to access it. Port forwarding is used when you want other locations to be able to connect to servers in your home. You don't need to use port-forwarding to connect to any Internet server regardless of the port number. For diagnosis try 

Click in the document where you want to add the text. Choose Insert - Fields - Other and click the Functions tab. Click "Hidden Text" in the Type list. Enter a statement in the Condition box. For example, using the variable you previously defined, enter Hide==1. Type the text that you want to hide in the Hidden text box. Click Insert and Close. 

What you want is sometimes called router hairpinning Whether your router supports this, what it is called, and how configured, depends on router make and model (which information isn't currently in your question) 

If your HTML is XHTML, you can probably use XSLT ? There are tools to convert HTML to XML The main alternative would be to use a scripting language that has modules for HTML parsing or web-scraping and modules for writing XML. But that means writing programs/scripts. 

The question is a bit too simplistic. The answer depends on the mix of reads and writes and other factors. I would be disappointed if 15k RAID-1 SAS didn't outperform 10k RAID-5 SATA. Your Mileage May Vary. 

No†, it works with Chrome‡. The site has IE9 ads (which might suggest it is expected to work with IE9) but it told me Chrome was an outdated version of IE and invited me to "upgrade" to IE8! 

to the clause in (or chrooted equivalent) After restarting named, 192.168.0.3 should be able to perform zone-transfers using dig. 

You must configure the TP-link as a WiFi Acess Point (AP) only. Otherwise it is competing with your main router to offer DHCP service and is likely to be causing IP-address conflicts depending on which router gets its DHCP response out quickest and how far the DHCP pools overlap. 

Some font files contain more than one height (or size) of the font. If a font contains more than one encoding for different heights, give the height to use as an argument to the `-H' option. (If you try to do it without the option anyway, consolechars will output a list of available sizes.) Common console font heights include 8 (for 8x8 fonts), 14 (for 8x14 fonts), and 16 (for 8x16 fonts). To set the console font to the 8x8 size sc font, type: 

See the Microsoft support article on decryption Unless you saved the owner's public or private keys, it is possible that you will be unable to decrypt the files. 

You may have a network problem, try using ping to test the network connection to the zebra and see if there is packet loss or large variations in delay. I'd try replacing the Ethernet cable, if that didn't help I'd temporarily try hooking it up to the Computer through a separate Ethernet switch. 

Understanding the MPEG-4 movie atom: "The optimal location of the moov atom depends on the selected delivery method." 

I think the D in UGHDI means dynamic. The Linux box told the Mac that it didn't know a route to that subnet and told it that it would be better to route that data to the DSL router (because that is the Linux box's default gateway and so assumed to know how to route everywhere). This implies the Linux box isn't routing data between it's NICs. I'd check it's configuration. 

"ﬁ" is a ligature. If you paste it into a program such as Notepad, you can save it by specifying the encoding as UTF-8 in the File, Save As dialog. Other programs will have a similar capability to save text in UTF-8 encoding. If you want to decompose "ﬁ" to "f" and "i". You'd need some software that does that. Maybe iconv or recode? 

Yes, everything inside the tunnel is protected. Observers can see the address of the tunnel endpoint. However the tunnel ends somewhere and from there your TCP connection has to reach a webserver, the destination of that part of the journey can be observed. Someone might be able to correlate the two sets of activity. 

I think this depends on what tools you use to produce the PDF and what options you select when doing so. 

TERM is indeed informative, but many programs/commands will respect it or rely on it. How colour is produced could depend very much on terminal type. In practice I suspect they all use ANSI (or a superset) where colour is supported. If TERM is set to a mono terminal type, a program would have to use some other information to decide which type of terminal's colour-control to use. If it defaults to "ANSI" it will likely work in most circumstances nowadays. This would be a bad thing to do if the terminal is really mono, it would be better for the command/program to use mono methods (e.g. reverse, underline, intensity, strikeout, blink, etc) in place of colour to visually distinguish elements. If the particular program/command respects TERM (as many do) it is equally likely to report to you that your request for colour is not supported by the terminal type. See $URL$ 

To sort by the value of one of the attributes, I would read the data into a suitable data structure such as an array of hashes AoH and define a comparator as described in Alternatively I would 

I don't think it is possible for the browser to know this for certain. In many (most?) cases the "logged in" state information is held at the server (because HTTP is a stateless protocol). For some login mechanisms, the browser has a session cookie for whose value the server keeps track of "logged in" state. You might have clicked a "logout" widget (or been timed out) but your browser could still hold an unexpired session cookie. 

Outbound connections TCP connections are started by a client sending a packet to a server (as part of a "three-way handshake"). The router sees this packet, edits the from-address and keeps a note in an internal list of connections of the internal source IP-address, source port and translated source port (it has to cope with two PCs both using the same source port getting their source IP-address translated to the same public IP-address). Since it keeps track of connections, when the router receives reply packets it can work out which internal PC to forward the (edited) packets on to. So no, replies to an outbound SSH connection should not be blocked. connections initiated from the outside are a different matter: Inbound connections When the router receives an inbound request to create a connection on a specific port (e.g. 80) - if it doesn't provide a service on that port itself (e.g. router admin interface) it won't know what to do and will refuse the connection. Port forwarding If you want friends, random strangers (and criminals) to have access to your PC, you can tell the router that when it receives a connection request on port n to forward that request to one of your computers. 

"BIOS" passwords Some computers intended for business use have an optional boot password that can be set in the BIOS. You may be able to reset this by removing and replacing the battery on the motherboard. If in doubt obtain a user-manual for the specific model of computer or for the motherboard. However this sort of hardware/firmware password would be requested by the computer prior to any indication of Windows booting. It isn't clear from your question if this is the case. Note: The term BIOS is used loosely here. UEFI Secure Boot You may need to disable Secure Boot. or install a Linux distro, such as Ubuntu, which supports it. Microsoft Windows Administrator passwords Normally, Windows Administrator accounts should not prevent you booting from a device like the DVD-ROM drive or a bootable USB stick. 

Yes it is most likely a problem with either your ISP or with your router. It might also be a problem with your Computers but that is less likely, although you might have configured all of them the same way. Using diagnostic tools such as (Windows) or (Unix/Linux) will help you discover where the problem lies. 

When the hard drive light is unexpectedly "blinking like hell" I use task manager to see what processes are most active. The SysInternals programs, such as FileMon, can also help identify programs that are doing a lot of disk IO. Even though you don't think it is virus/malware, I would make sure I had a AV program installed and running. 

I think the basic idea is that the data is written to a narrow circular track on the rotating disc. The head moves to different tracks but this movement has a limited accuracy. So when the head moves to that track to write zeroes, it may not write them exactly over the top of your data. There is probably a lot of overlap, but, in theory, in a laboratory the disk platter could be put into a special drive with narrow heads that move more precisely and this way the edge of your old data might be read. Either that or, because the data is written by re-orienting magnetic "particles" in the disk, which is essentially an analogue statistical physical process, some faint magnetic "shadow" of the old data might remain which could still be detected by sensitive heads. I'm not sure that any of this is more than hypothetical. So the idea is to overwrite the data multiple times, like scribbling over your credit-card number on a piece of paper to stop anyone being able to read it. The more times you scribble, the harder it is to read what was underneath. 

I'd consider putting the file onto a set of DVDs or BD-ROMs or 2.5" HDD and airmail them. If your upload bandwidth is 1 Mbit/s, 70 GB could take 6 days to transfer over the Internet. 

A properly configured router with a built in firewall and network address translation (NAT) should give reasonable protection. There are many websites that will perform a port scan and tell you what file-sharing and other services are visible through your router. For example "Shields Up" at www.grc.com. 

Sometimes it is probably hard, or impossible, to work out the order in which the fragments were originally placed. At least not without significant human intervention ($$$) and perhaps not without some knowledge of the context (it was a video of a wedding at a church in fooville followed by shots of the reception in barville) 

Root's path includes /usr/local/sbin on many Linux distributions. Path If you add /usr/local/sbin to your PATH environment variable, then you can use the short form of the name. You can do this 

If you have two computers, each with it's own independent connection to the internet (i.e. two ISP connections) not one shared connection then, in theory, by using something like FTP servers that support resumption of interrupted downloads, each computer could simultaneously download half of the file. However I don't know of any software that does this (though perhaps wget or curl can be made to perform the appropriate offset fetch) If the bottleneck is the ftp-server (or equivalent protocol server) then having two connection won't help. 

I believe the DXR file format is used for Shockwave video. Presumably the Shockwave player can be used to extract some info from it. Since it is a proprietary format, it may be difficult to find other tools or construct tools to extract information. 

Update: Kindle's proprietary AZW format supports Arabic script - so you may be able to convert Word documents containing Arabic text into Kindle documents by using Amazon's online conversion tools (for which you pay a small fee) - the resulting AZW document being delivered by email to the Kindle device. 

Yes, there are commercial adapters you can buy to simplify this (you don't need to make up special cables). For example