Router1 will need to know that it should go to the wireless router in order to reach the network on the other side of the wireless router. You have not given use the network that you are using on the other side of the wireless router, so I will use as an example. On Router1, you can use a static route: 

The switch will use either CDP or LLDP to negotiate a trunk with the phone. The VoIP phone acts as a switch. As with any VLANs, you need a router to let a device on one VLAN talk to a device on another VLAN. The PC and phone probably have no need to communicate with each other. It is normally a good idea to keep VoIP and data VLANs separate. For a Cisco switch, you put this on an access port: 

For Cisco routers, those are VoIP configurations. CME is Communications Manager Express, and SRST is Survivable Remote Site Telephony. Neither of these has anything specific to do with 802.11 Wi-Fi. 

Interfaces that have multiple VLANs are trunks. You can configure a trunk to a router, but you will need to use subinterfaces on the router. Most end-devices, e.g. printers, don't understand VLAN tagging on trunks. Some servers can be configured to use VLAN tagging and trunks. You will either need to use separate printers, or you will need to configure routing between the VLANs (default on a router). If you want to restrict everything between the VLANs, except the printer, you will need to create ACLs to block everything, except the printer. This is a fairly common configuration. 

A higher category cable can be used for a lower category cable. Ordinary telephone cable is Category-3 cable. The downside is that simply replacing one category cable for another can be very misleading. Simply having cable at a category is meaningless. All the cable components (connectors, patch panels, etc.) must all be the same category, and they must pass the category test suite after installation to be considered in that category. Installation can be challenging for higher category cables, and I have seen experienced installers frustrated with Category-6 cable installation (getting it to pass the Category-6 test suite). You can also have problems because the cable and wire diameters can be larger in the higher cable categories. This can present problems with the cable path, and cause poor connections if lower category connectors are used. When a cable vendor installs cabling, you need to get each cable tested for its category suite, and a complete report should be supplied to you after installation. 

This will trunk all the VLANs to the router so that packets can be routed from one VLAN to another VLAN. Also, on your switches, since they will be layer-2 switches because you are routing on the router, you need to remove all the SVIs except for the one for switch management: 

That is true; Wi-Fi is a bi-directional protocol, and devices are both senders and receivers, not at all like commercial radio or television where you have a powerful transmitter and a lot receivers. The only way you can cover that type distance is with a directional antenna, basically a point-to-point link. The governmental authorities limit transmitter power and antenna gain. The frequencies used by Wi-Fi are open for everybody to use, and if everybody could just send Wi-Fi that sort of distance, it would be useless because everybody would interfere with everybody else. The Wi-Fi protocol must share the frequency, and devices must yield and give other devices on the same frequency time on the air. That is built into the protocol. You don't own the airwaves, they belong to everybody. 

HSRP would be configured on the ISP side, not your side. The switch will look and be configured like a single switch. You will use the command on the two interfaces to the ISP. Each interface would be configured as a router interface and each would have an IP address. It will look something like this: 

You are misunderstanding what that is telling you. Simply for the purposes of the calculation, you use zero for those fields; you don't actually change those fields to zero for the packet. 

TCP/IP will reassemble a TCP segment that was broken into IP packets. Reassembling other datagrams from the individual TCP segments is left to the upper layer protocols. 

Since your WAN router is not directly connected to the networks behind the LAN router, you will need to either configure static routes for those networks pointing to the LAN router, or you will need to run a routing protocol between the LAN and WAN routers so that the LAN router can tell the WAN router about the networks behind it. 

This explains that a socket is a concatenation of the IP and TCP addresses, and a connection is a concatenation of two sockets (source and destination). As @mulaz explained, TCP is the payload of IP, so TCP knows about IP. This is necessary for TCP to create the pseudo header used for its checksum. Again, the RFC explains (the bold is mine): 

With a directly connected network, a router is not sending the traffic to a neighbor, it is directly placing the traffic on the destination network. If the router itself is directly connected to the destination network, why would you want to send the traffic to a different router? That could lead to routing loops or other problems. The point of routing is to get packets to a router that is directly connected to the destination network so that router can place the packets on the destination network. You seem to want to then send the packets somewhere other than the destination network. That is ill-advised. You could use something like PBR to send the traffic to a different interface, but this would result in sub-optimal routing in the best case. You would be adding unnecessary hops, and the traffic will probably be dropped or sent back to the directly connected router, at which point it would probably be sent back, creating a routing loop until the TTL expires and the packets are dropped. 

I'm confused about where the network is defined. If the Nanostation is in bridge mode it should have an IP address on the network . Your "neutral router" will have a default route to the ISP, and it will send anything from its LAN port to the default route. It doesn't know where the network is. Conversely, the Nanostation should have a route to the network is unless the "neutral router" is running NAT (giving you double-NAT which is probably not a good idea). You can do this with static routes, which doesn't scale, or a routing protocol between routers. 

The rating of a cable plant is determined by the lowest rating of any link in the cable plant. If you have OM4, and you use lower rated patch cords, the rating of the cable plant is the rating of the patch cords. The same thing applies to copper cabling. 

The first hop, , belongs to your ISP (based on what you have written), and that is an RFC 1918 private IPv4 address. That means your ISP is using CGN. You need to forward the specific ports on the NAT, but the NAT belongs to the ISP, so you can't do that, and the ISP will not do it for you since those ports would only work for you, and none of the other customers using that IPv4 address. As far as having different addresses, asymmetric routing is common. Traffic can come back a different way than it went out. Since this is your business, you need to pay your ISP for a public, usually static, IPv4 address if you want to be able to get to your network from the public Internet.