does not require that you SSH to the remote computer in order to make the copy (and this is where you're currently running into trouble with your command). scp essentially works in either a push or pull fashion. You can push files/folders from your local PC to a remote. The command syntax for this method is as follows: 

For errors indicating is missing, you'll need to install the Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package On a 64-bit system go ahead and install both the 32-bit and 64-bit versions of the package Download both from Microsoft here: 32-bit : $URL$ 64-bit : $URL$ 

It is nothing. Your friend accidentally dragged text that was selected from a web page onto his desktop. From Wikipedia 

The reason you're getting that error is because the Internet Explorer .exe is actually named , not . It's just an extra that you typed in its name that shouldn't be there. The full command for what you're trying to do should be: 

Which will prompt you for the password of on . You can also pull file/folders from a remote PC to your local PC. The command syntax for this method is as follows: 

^^The above setting change will only affect any new files added to your PC going forward. If you want to remove this attribute for the files already on your PC, I'd suggest the following: 

When you navigate to that directory you will see a lot of files that don't look like picture files, as seen in the following screenshot: 

It will not expand beyond the original amount you allocated for it. From virtualbox.org/manual/ch05.html 

No, you will not be able to add additional RAM at this point. Your only option for 16GB of memory was to have opted for it at the time of purchase as the 8GB and 16GB configurations available for your model are both onboard memory. From support.apple.com for the specs for your laptop: 

Although it is unclear why the installer is looking in the jre directory instead of jdk, a simple workaround for installing Weblogic is to simply run this command: 

Since you weren't starting from scratch here you didn't have the option of installing Windows first since this is a reinstall of Windows on a system that already had a preexisting Linux partition. In a case like that you can try repairing Grub first if you really want to attempt to salvage your Kali partition. If it's there's nothing worth salvaging, just reinstall Kali. There's some chance Windows only overwrote Grub with its own bootloader and didn't erase your Kali partition, so you can attempt to simply repair Grub and hope everything else was left intact. One method of doing this is to boot into a live Linux USB/CD and repair Grub as described here at help.ubuntu.com: 

You may or may not, depending on the software that requires the redistributable. Some software is written to rely on a specific redistributable, while another software may be written to rely on that older redistributable but is also able to use any of the more recent versions all the way up to the latest version. From microsoft's forum: 

Click on the Start typing and you'll see an option come up called . Select that. Make sure the drive you want to turn off defrag/optimize is highlighted and then click on . Uncheck the box that says Click on OK and you're done. 

Which will also prompt you for the password to on . The problem you were running into with your command above is that you were using the data pull syntax of the scp command in order to grab a file from a remotehost, but you were also SSH'd into that remotehost while running it. The correct way to run this command is to run it from your local machine 

The picture above your username on the lockscreen in Windows 7 is your user profile pic. To change it do the following: 

**Note that I removed the superfluous from your original command. It's not something that will throw off an error, but it's just that it's not necessary in your case. The option of is to be used when recursively copying a folder and all its contents. In your case you were just copying a file so it wasn't necessary. **I also added the since subsequent comments from you indicated that you needed to use port 2222 instead of standard port 22. 

It does give you an option to set the shorttcut in > > At the bottom of the Customize window choose Insert under and then choose New Page under . Then choose from the available Shortcut Keys that you can scroll through at the top of the window. Once you've selected a keyboard shortcut you want click Modify over on the right and your keyboard shortcut will be set. 

It is possible, but you need to put the iso onto a usb disk. (4GB or more, I reccomend 8GB just in case) Now download the Windows 7 USB/DVD Download Tool and install it, afterwards open it and select the ISO file, click USB then let it do its job. Once it says its completed, go to Computer (Or this pc) and click your USB. Then navigate to the sources folder and delete the file. When you load your windows 10 installer from usb, it will show all windows installations! 

I've decided to upgrade to Windows 10 on my Dell Optiplex 760, but the problem is when I boot from the USB, nothing happens. This is also the same on my laptop which is where I downloaded the iso from Microsoft's Insider Build page, I have tried both arch's (x86 and x64) and both won't boot from my desktop. What should I do? Specs: Dell Optiplex 760 Intel Core2 Duo (64 Bit Processor) nVidia GeForce 210 1GB DDR3 2GB DDR2 RAM Intel Virtulisation Technology (VT-d / VT-x) CD/DVD RW Drive 

I've had this custom build for 6 months and only today has this happened. I shut off the computer to go out and upon returning the computer will not power on at all when pressing the button. The green LED on my GPU shows that the PSU and MB are not dead as it's recieving power. What I have tried 

Right click on your start menu button. click on search. type power shell. right click on power shell from search results. click on run as administrator. Execute below code : 

Your only choice will be to use a software to retrieve the missing key. Download this software and unzip the software, after opening try searching for it with the MSDM option checked, 

These DNSUnlocker things are everywhere on every page on my PC. I don't even know how it even got on my system. After finding it in control panel and uninstalling it, it seems to still terrorize my pc, with most words becoming links for "ads" which is really annoying when trying to click play on one of my games. I won't be able to add images because the images button has been taken over by the adware. How can I stop this "DNS Unlocker" adware from messing up my PC? 

System restore didn't have anything, system image didn't have anything, and startup repair was just useless. It just couldn't Identify the problem. This is a really serious issue as I cannot even get into my PC. Can someone help with these questions: 

Go to run (Windows + r) type regedit and press enter. click ok when notification window prompt. Go to HKEY_CURRENT_USER>Software>Microsoft>Windows>CurrentVersion>Explorer>Advanced Create a Dword (32BIT) value by right clicking and selecting New > Dword (32bit) with the name ‘EnableXamlStartMenu’. Give it value 0 Log off and login again. 

I want people to login to my sky router like you do in cafes and some places with free wifi. (e.g Wifi powered by the cloud) I want to do this as I would like to put web restrictions on different users. For example one account (Named "foo") gets access to everything. But the other account (Named "foo2") only gets access to a quarter of things. 

So I currently have this issue where my Epson WF-3620DWF can't find the blue and yellow cartridges. (They are official epson ones) and I have a full black cartridge in there. How do I force my printer to ONLY print in black and ignore the cartridge(s) not recognised error? 

Using my sandisk cruzer glide (8GB), I was putting windows 7 onto the usb to install onto another PC. When halfway through, it said "This drive is read-only". I got confused, but then I went to computer and the I couldn't even open the drive. I checked it in diskmgmt.msc and it said "read only". Afterwards I checked the USB on gparted live and it turns out the partiton has changed to HFS+. After trying to rewrite the partition table (and it failing because of read-only) I tried using diskpart next apparently I just had to do (with disk being the USB) but that did nothing. When doing it still said even though below it says . I've also tried chipgenius, and only got this far: 

The " that are included are required Option 2 also fixes your issue with Microsoft Edge, Cortana, etc. Hopefully one of the options worked for you! 

I recently purchased a series of a TV Show off the Microsoft Store as at the time I didn't have any credit on iTunes. After I downloaded them I tried to play one using Windows Media player, but said it encountered a problem and refused to play it. I tried with VLC Media player and all I get is a very glitched out picture. I attempted to covert the video into .avi using DIVX but it still returned the same results. Why is this happening? 

I like wikipedia's "List of Intel Pentium microprocessors" for this as it lists processors by generation, and in a table so you can get a sense of how yours compares to others. There's also Intel Core to see how those compare and the CPU Architecture pages; for your G2030 see the Ivy Bridge page which gives GPU clock rate which might help some : 650MHz Normal, 1050MHz Turbo. Also is helpful; for Ivy Bridge it points to and there you can look up your processor. Quoting Intel, for "Intel® Pentium® Processors 2000/G2000 Series with Intel® HD Graphics" : "The product... do[es] not support the following features: Intel® Insider™ technology, Intel® InTru™ 3D Technology, and Intel® Clear Video HD Technology." DirectX : 11.0 OpenGL : 4 OpenCL : No Shader model support : 5 Intel® Quick Sync Video : No Intel® Wireless Display : No 

Mix of picture and video does seem to be tricky. IrfanView worked for me. Hardware Media Players don't seem to do it. In particular the Micca Speck, the Incredisonic, the Blusmart, and KDLINKS HD720 mini-hardware media players do NOT do it. That is, as of 6/2/2015 because they come out with new versions of these little boxes every year or so. How do I know? 

It was my ISP. They rebooted the "network card" that our DSL line plugs into at their local office. It "got stuck in a boot sequence". Then they replaced the card. And now the tracert and all access to that node works fine. Note that this was after they ran tests in the local state office of my ISP and all test said PASS. So how can a DSL networking input card cause downstream routing issues? Corrupt stored routing table? 

Well, I found it. I could not find it in the default menus. But has it in category . If you're reading this, that was probably not an obvious place to find it for you, either. 

How do you insert many pictures, say one hundred (100) pictures, into a LibreOffice Impress presentation, one picture per slide...all at once, without having to insert each of 100 images one by one each on its own new page (slide). This link nicely explains how to . Except, that was v4.1. In the (nearly) current v5.1.4.2, there IS NO menu any more. There's an , which contains sub menu's of and but only allows a single image file to be selected. doesn't have a in either. What happened to it? (Note: there was a PhotoAlbum Extension but it was replaced by an integrated feature, in v4.1, as far as I can tell, and that extension hasn't been updated since 2012; it's now 2016.) 

Just had same problem. Themes services was already started and I restarted and did not fix. However, The service, altho it was already, I restarted it, and it fixed my problem instantly. Taskbar icon peek and transparency restored. Note that control panel\System and Security\System -> advanced system -> Performance Settings -> visual effects tab had MISSING. It was not just un-checked, but missing entirely from the list. Re-starting service restored that option into that list (in checked state). I had radio button selected here before and after the problem and before and after the fix. EDIT: I got my hint from here: $URL$ 

So when i un-checked my PC went from waking every 5 min to staying asleep all night. I am curious as to what is sending that pattern-matching packet. Another of my Windows OS PC's (Windows 7 and XP)? a smartphone? Router? Switch? My IPS? Host intrusion attempt from internet? FYI: I found the following article while searching and found it pretty comprehensive (repeating many ideas on this page) with some nice how-to instructions How to Fix a Computer that Keeps Waking Up 

So following recommendations here I downloaded IrfanView today (thru LiberKey (a portable application launcher, although i think i prefer PortableApps.com without the launcher)). opens a dialog box with copious options. It only played one of the formats of videos i had: .wmv That was disappointing but I can use FormatFactory or iWisoft video converter to convert them, so I'm not that worried. I also assume with some codec/plugin work i could get other formats to work in IrfanView. In particular IrfanView lets you pick the pictures you want, including all of them. You can select a mix of pictures and videos. IrfanView lists what you have selected in another box where you can control the order. It auto-plays videos, and auto-moves on to the next file, whether picture or video. Here are its other features that I have seen people ask for in various threads as I was searching for an answer to this question: