This is in addition to other IT concerns you'd want to keep in mind like maintainability, support contracts, and your space/power requirements. 

When I restore after dropping the database, the fastest I can get a restore going is 4 hours. This is when I put the .bak on a RAID 10 logical drive, with the data files being written to a separate RAID 10 logical drive on the same server. The log files go to yet another RAID 0 on the same server. However, if I restore with Replace, the restore process only takes 56 minutes (similar setup). Did I find some sort of turbo button? This is so fast that I am worried. 

I am trying to use SQLCMD to remotely detach a database but for some reason it can't find the server. From the workstation, I can connect to the database instance (which is the default instance) using the Host Name through SSMS successfully. The error is: 

After a test completes (on a SQL 2008R2 system), the system updates a row in the TestRun table to include an end time. I am creating a trigger that will take action after that update, and do some post-test analysis for me. Right now it's very simple. 

However I would like to have that integer replaced with a variable that is the RunID of the row updated (which is causing the trigger to fire). How can I do that? 

I found the answer elsewhere on the Internet, courtesy of Grant Fritchey. "When you look at the fragmentation percentage, you're looking at external fragmentation. It means the percentage of pages that are out of order showing an inneficient storage mechanism." $URL$ So it's how many pages out of the whole are out of order. 

In ASE, a cluster is multiple physical Database Servers working as a single logical Database Server. There is no separate designation if a Database Server (single or cluster) is running multiple databases, since that is the expected operation. Database is the collection of related objects (Tables, views, triggers, users, etc). Schemas: In ASE a user can own objects, and set permissions on those objects independently, which satisfies some of the same use cases for schemas BUT a user can not be dropped from the database if they own any objects. So for practical purposes, most sites don't use user level objects. The lowest granularity storage object in ASE is a (other databases call this a ) the size of which is set when the server is installed, but can be 2k, 4k, 8k or 16k. This means that the database allocates pages in chunks equivalent to the page size setting. Referential integrity can cross database (schema) boundaries. I highly recommend checking out sypron.nl. Rob Verschoor is an SAP VP & Engineer and his site is packed with good information, tips, tricks and scripts. His quick reference books are also VERY good, and I would recommend them to anyone needing to work with ASE, Replication Server or IQ. 

SAP/Sybase ASE uses a slightly different conceptual model than PostgreSQL, Oracle & SQLServer, which all have the concept of a schema. 

Sybase ASE will not allow you to directly delete rows from multiple tables using a wild card, but it's pretty simple to create a script to find the table names, and loop through them. You can find the tables names by querying within the database. To find all the tables with the prefix you would do: 

I'm not sure where else to check, I know I have a lot of moving parts here but I'm getting the feeling I'm just missing a max pool setting somewhere. 

That exception usually doesn't refer to the SQL Server itself running out of memory, but instead the client workstation that is processing the results running out of memory. You will generally see this if you are outputting a very large result set into the Output window. To troubleshoot the issue (and possibly resolve it) allow SQL to write the results to a file rather than trying to put it all in the output window. 

I have the need to restart Microsoft SQL Server's group of services on a given computer, remotely, through some sort of programmatic method I can insert into a workflow. I'm looking for the best way to do this, I've seen a few different ways and I'm wondering if there's anything I'm missing: 

Upgradability - SQL Server will rapidly test the limits of your hardware if you let it, so try to anticipate that Affordability - SQL Server licensing in 2014 is core-based, so this should be a consideration. 

You're right that SQL Server rarely bottlenecks at the CPU, but it's not impossible and you can tell whether you're seeing a CPU bottleneck by looking at some perf counters. Then you'll know whether or not you'll see a performance improvement simply by updating the CPU to a faster one or one with more cores. If your SQL isn't written to take advantage of parallel processing, it won't matter if you throw more cores at it. Additionally, there's more things I would want to consider in buying a system: 

It's typically good practice to seperate your OS installation from your database installation to isolate OS disk issues from database disk issues. The primary reason for this is to reduce the change that a problem with the OS could prevent recovery of the database, or vice versa. If your database fills up the free disk space, it can crash both the database and the OS. This also allows you to have different recovery options available for the different pieces. We typically run RAID 1 (Mirroring) on our OS disks, and RAID 5 (or some other type of parity + striping) on our Database disks. Since the OS disk has fewer writes, we can take the performance hit of mirroring, to reduce recovery time in a crash situation. But on the Database side we want to maximize the performance of reads/writes at the expense of recovery time in a crash situation. 

Your DB files are SQLAnywhere files, so first you will need to get SQLAnywhere. Sybase has some documentation on upgrading databases from earlier versions here. 

Without an ORDER BY clause, the order the values are returned in will be unreliable, as they can be influenced by indexes and the data pages the individual rows are stored on. If you require the data to be in a particular order, use the ORDER BY clause. 

Sybase ASE does not support a direct upgrade from version 11.5 to version 15, so you will have to export your database from the ASE 11.5, and import it to ASE 15. From the $SYBASE/$SYBASE_ASE/scripts/ directory in your ASE 15 installation, run the installupgrade file into your ASE 11.5 installation, to install some utility stored procedures to assist with the migration. 

I have a group of about 30 tables, and I want to know the physical size on disk of all of these tables (plus indexes). Is there an easier way of doing this than through the GUI in SQL server 2008 R2? 

The total number of times it will iterate is 150, however it is stopping at 100 connections and I can't figure out why. I could adjust my script to just use a single thread, but I'd prefer to know where I'm missing a max connection setting as that will be more useful to know for future reference. Here's where I've checked so far: 

So I have a database (on a SQL Server 2008 R2 SP2 instance) that is 2TB uncompressed, with a .bak file that is 500GB compressed. As I have been toying with the fastest way to restore this database after a series of tests, I've tried a couple of things: 

Currently this takes something like 3 minutes to run. Is there a better way to get the information I'm looking for? 

I'm running SQL Server 2008 R2 SP1, on a Windows Server 2008 box. I have a .NET script running from Visual Studio 2010 that does the following: 

Sometimes our developers will write a query that uses cursors, but doesn't close them out explicitly. I'm trying to generate a list of active objects in my production database that use cursors but don't explicitly close/deallocate them. To do this I've written a simple statement that does the job, but is extremely slow: 

I'm not sure of the change that caused this (the logs don't show anything specific) but ever since Monday afternoon I've seen the following error repeated: 

In the above query is the flag for User defined tables. Also because is a single character wild card in T-SQL, we have to escape it to find the literal . T-SQL allows almost any character to act as the escape, but it must be defined after the clause. Finally is the multi-character wild card, the T-SQL equivalent to in *nix and DOS. It would also be possible to use the above query to build a sql script. We start by telling the server not to print out the number of rows affected by the query using . This allows us to create a script that will run error-free, without needing additional editing. 

Sybase ASE retrieves port numbers for the listeners from the file. On *nix systems, this is typically in the Sybase Home directory ($SYBASE/interfaces) On Windows systems it's called and can be found in %SYBASE%, which is likely to be c:\sybase (I think..been a while since I've run on Windows). I believe you can launch the GUI interfaces editor through Sybase Central, if you are using that to manage your ASE databases. and are the two utilities that can be used to edit the interfaces file. You can also manually edit the interfaces file using a text editor such as but be sure to pay attention to the format of the entries and permissions, so as not to accidentally muck it up. 

In Advantage/SQLAnywhere, the database names are stored in sysdbspaces To access the name of the database you are currently in use the function. 

It seems that the 5GB limit is per server, so you would not be able to have multiple 5GB databases. As for migration, it should be just a matter of shutting down the Express Edition, and using the Developer Edition binaries to start your existing data server. It may be as easy as copying then RUN_[servername] file from the old directory to the new one, if all of your system and user databases exist outside of the installation directory. The link above is worth checking out, as it details the restrictions of the different versions. It's also a great resource for ASE knowledge, as Rob Verschoor is one of the most knowledgable Sybase/SAP database guys around. 

I have 2 instances of SQL Server installed on one server: SQL002. One instance is a default instance, SQL2008 R2, and the SQL service is generally not running except for specific tests. The other instance is a named instance, SQL 2014 (so SQL002/SQL2014). This is generally running all the time. Today I just had a developer tell me that when they connect to SQL002 in SQL Server Management Studio it will connect successfully. I replicated this from my machine and also see a successful connection, however when I look at the properties of the connection it is reporting that it connected to the named instance. What is going on here? Is there a redirect I'm not aware of? 

Currently I run when I want to wipe information out of the buffer pool between running SQL queries. However, I was reviewing this Technet article referencing . What caches does wipe that doesn't? 

The way to gauge hardware performance is to be take a look at your current workload. So I would begin by quantifying that: 

The IP reported is the SQL Server. Since this is ongoing, is there a way I could figure out what is trying to pass this credential? If I could get an application name or anything I could probably fix the problem. 

So the first thing I did was to make sure that the instance is accessible via SSMS (it is), and that my CMD prompt is Administrator (it is). Then I checked to make sure the instance has TCP enabled (it does) and allows remote connections (it does). What am I missing? The commend I use, minus the script, is: