I am studying up on IPv6 and part of the talk was about how the machines generate or can have multiple IPv6 addresses for internal use and external use. Does this mean that there is no longer a "public" IP address that all the machines inside a network will use? The video guide also mentioned that the point of the "privacy" IPv6 was to keep people from accessing the machine directly. Do firewalls no longer exist or was this just a poorly worded explanation? This was the CBT IPv6 video series. 

I think your client is asking for your public IP address (static/Dynamic) provided by your ISP.Please check the authenticity of the request before providing the information(IP address) to your client. If your sales process includes a call to a third party payment gateway/Banking API then it makes sense. Sometimes when multiple clients with the same Public IP address send back to back queries to their API/services then the Automatic security routines/algorithms will start classifying them as fishy/trigger captachas or even block the IP address altogether. You client might have foreseen this problem and taking actions to prevent the problem by white listing the IP address upfront. Just Google "what is my public IP address" You will get to know the IP address. If you can also access the ISP provided Modem's GUI from your PC then also check it from the Web GUI as well.The IP address must be listed on WAN IP address section. 

I've been doing some work with some big businesses and so far I've learned yellow is internet and blue is phone. Is this a standard or is this just a personal chose? Do colors mean different tasks? 

So I never knew this till today but I thought you needed CAT5 for VoIP but this business is running VoIP on CAT3. Don't you need the extra wires for the voice, data and power? 

I have my modem configured for bridge mode. I get one IPv4 for my router and one goes to my server for public access. If I static assigned these IPv4 address would I keep them as long as no one else ended up with them? Hod does DHCP work from the ISP side. I assume it is just like any other DHCP server? 

No.There are several parameters when your mobile connection is validated at the Operator's Network and APN is one among them.This is the explanation from a layman point of view. As per the GSM,3G,LTE standards the procedure of enabling data services for a subscriber is known as Attach.In this procedure UE/Mobile will have to send its parameters like TMSI,APN and another couple of parameters to authenticate the itself on the network. Depending upon the technology you use the service will be authenticated from the network by BSC(2G)(base station controller along with SGSN or from EPC side(LTE)) Even if you manage to create a new configuration at your phone and tried to attach the phone with network,The request will not get authenticated and data service will not be activated. Just for you to understand,the operator network equipment vendors are normally Nokia,Ericsson,Alcatel lucent and Zte.Almost all the security aspects will be covered at multiple stages of the product deployment.On the other side,3gpp standards are very well defined to make sure unauthorized access are NACKed from the network as well. 

I've been doing some research in to OpenVPN, MTU, JumboFrames, ect... and want to make sure that I have this right. If I increase the MTU over 1500 to 9000 for OpenVPN when connecting to a remote server over the internet, I'll have fragmentation and won't gain any performance due to the fact that I don't know if the routers that handle my packets support jumboframes? 

Is there any real difference over placing Access Points over Wireless Extenders? How do you know when to use one or the other? 

I am running out of capacity through ISP 1 and would like to add an additional ISP and create a dual homed setup. I have a /20 from ARIN that I am advertising to ISP1. This is the setup I would like to end up with: 

I am currently using a very simple eBGP and iBGP configuration in my network to route out through a single ISP. This diagram gives a rough idea of what I currently have in operation: 

I'm sure if you explore both tc and iptables,you should be able to come up with a script to achieve your requirement.It is good to use an openW.R.T based router with tc support for your setup. Note: The best solution is to use VLAN + QOS solution. EDITED based on the Comment A good router/Gateway/CPE at the customer end can solve this problem. I belive what you are trying to achieve is to provide seamless services to your end customers. 

I am playing around with pfsense and have an issue with it connecting properly to the internet. It has the 1 WAN port by default but I also want to run 2 other networks 192.168.3.0 and 192.168.4.0 on 2 seperate network nics. (server has 3 total). Does my default WAN port need to connect to a WAN port? I assume routers in order to connect to each other requires a WAN to WAN connection? What I was to achieve is this: What I want to do is have all 3 networks connected to each other. 

NAT.Nat will help indirectly for a node in the INTERNET to uniquely identify a computer with Public IP+port. However,the public IP will also subject to change if ISP doesnt provide static IP address to your router. This is where people use DynDNS to reach their PC or Modem from internet. 

When the user want to access that PC remotely or that PC will need to act as server in the Internet where the IP is binded to a domain name. Eg. Web Server,Gaming server,DNS server etc. 

Here is a list of the PtP bandwidths: A -> B 300Mbps B -> A 300Mbps B -> C 300Mbps C -> B 300Mbps However, when we test the network (using iperf, 10 parallel threads) from A -> C, we see the following: A -> C 130Mbps C -> A 130Mbps Link from A -> B is a microwave link operating at 23GHz Link from B -> C is a 5GHz PtP radio. When we test the links individually, they look OK, passing 300Mbps as they should be. However, when we test the network end-to-end, from A -> C, we never see more than 50% of the bandwidth we expect, and usually see closer to 33%. None of these links are passing customer traffic. Is this network congestion? Could it be caused by the two links operating with different latencies? Would this difference in latency cause buffers to fill up on one of the radios? Thanks! 

If you can't get the Static IP at your end then why don't you try for the IPSEC+NAT-T? If the AWS also support NAT-T then that would be the best solution to establish the tunnel. As Dave pointed out,You may have to think about the issue when WAN IP is changed at your gateway.From my experience with IPSEC,We used StrongSwan IPsec with NAT-T and it worked flawlessly. I would also suggest you to load an Open WRT based distribution in your gateway to have more flexibility with IPSec