One of the symptoms of a duplex mismatch is late collisions. Having your NMS alert you on these collisions is a good way of finding them. At least some Cisco models/IOS versions can send SNMP traps for these collisions. 

100.64.0.0/10 is a special IP-range defined in RFC6598, commonly known as 'shared address space'. The typical use of this is that ISP's which are running out of IPv4 space assign customers an IP address from this range and use carrier grade NAT to provide access to the public internet. The most important reason they use this specific range is that it does not overlap with private IP ranges assigned in RFC1918, so application layer protocol inspection will be able to distinguish the ISP's NAT from the client's NAT. So the problem here is that your NAT is placed behind the ISP's NAT. That's why you see another IP when you check your address on a website. You will have to contact your ISP if you need to run publicly accessable services, because at this moment you do not have your own public IP address. 

The level here indicates the percentage of the total interface bandwidth which can be used for broadcast/multicast/unknown unicast traffic. You can then set an action on what happens when this level is exceeded: 

As Ron Maupin pointed out, this is not uncommon. It's especially used between autonomous systems speaking BGP, and there actually is a thing called the "Default Free Zone", the core of the internet in which no default gateways are configured: all routes are exchanged via BGP. Not having default routes there actually serves a purpose: it prevents traffic to unallocated destinations to be discarded at the first possible hop, so it will not bounce between networks. 

You also need to set up a PIM RP since you only have 1 routing device you do not need to support auto-rp or bsr ip pim rp-address rp-address [access-list] the access-list has the multicast IP range so access-list 10 239.192.0.0 0.0.255.255 would make the 4900m the RP for the private multicast address range 

Well you normally need to use virtual links to talk to area 0 via a different non area 0 area or you connect 2 parts of area 0 through a non zero area. So virtual links do not apply. You can have a non contigious area if its not area 0, but as hinted above, not really a good idea. That being said you proposed topology will work without virtual links. 

IPv4 and IPv6 operate as 'ships in the night' as far as routing is concerned, so I see not benefit to separate VRFs with ipv4 in one and ipv6 in another. Also any dual stack hosts would need separate interfaces or separate tagged VLANs to operate dual stack. Now if you are concerned about RAM in the router VRF will not help that, for that concern route summarization or default routing would help there, and that applies to both IPv6 and ipv4 

I use routers for my remote office ethernets because since I do not buy line rate 'CIR' I need to traffic shape. Switches don't do that. Router QoS is also easier to deal with because switch QoS has lots of hardware dependencies. 

General rule of thumb: never use documentational space. It has a very specific purpose, don't ever use it for anything else or you'll regret it at a later time. If these two servers only need to talk to eachother and don't require any other connectivity for the given IPv6 addresses I'd use ULA space: pick a somewhat random /64 from within and use that between the servers. 

Tunneling won't help you, those packets still need to travel from Europe to the US and back. The longer the distance, the higher latency gets (roughly +1ms for every 100km), so routing traffic from the UK to Frankfurt to LA would even make it worse. If you want to reduce latency, place those servers closer to your customers, host clusters in several continents and let your customers connect to the server closest to them. 

Yes, this absolutely is a problem. Don't ever mix different types of cabling. Multimode has a 50 or 62.5 micron core diameter, while single mode fiber typically has a 9 micron core. If you connect two fibers with different core diameters, you'll lose a lot of the light going through the connector, resulting in a link flapping or being down. 

Since you're not mentioning what kind of hardware you're using, I can only give a general way of approaching this: Try finding out the MAC addresses of the hosts using the duplicate IP address. You can sometimes find this in log entries of the host which address has been 'stolen' or in router logs. If this doesn't work you can try looking in ARP tables of various machines in your network and compare the output for the problematic IP address. Now, you should have two different MAC addresses claiming to belong to the same IP address. You do a vendor lookup on a site like $URL$ This can help you identify the brand of the two hosts, which may help you to narrow down your search. If you have managed switches, you can do lookups on these switches to find out on which port these MAC addresses are being used by looking at the forwarding tables. This should help you find the port to which the problematic host is connected. 

The only dynamic adjustment of MTU size is to avoid IP fragmentation. That is changing the TCP segment size, to match the smallest IP packet size. IP packets can be divided up by say multilink PPP but that only lasts for the single MLPPP hop. Bottom line no protocol ever changed sizes to reduce retransmissions it was said in the old days that you might want to manually adjust data sizes down when using bad links but we are talking at least 15 years ago. 

ASIC can be thought of as a kind of chip. It is normally built in order to do something in hardware that otherwise would be done is software. So Cisco can build an ASIC for anything it wants. Depending on the model of the switch there is 1 or many ASICs. TCAM is a memory design since it is usually found on the chassis systems it is implemented as 1 of many asics. TCAM is used for particular lookup functions like routing (CEF) or ACLS, so if an ASIC does not need to do that kind of lookup it works separately from TCAM. On the other hand ASICs that handle QoS marking work hand in glove with TCAM. The presentation below on cisco live discusses some of the design tradeoffs, and a good place to look to get an understanding of what goes into switch design BRKARC-3466 - Exploring the engineering behind the making of a switch (2013 Orlando) it contains lists of the asics and a lot of general switch design information 

Since the addresses have the same first 21 bits, the mask is then /21 (255.255.248.0) . Otherwise you can do it in the head for simple case: x.x.x.0-255 is /24, two of those networks (starting on an even number) are /23, 4 are /22, 8 are /21 (135-128=8). 

If you have IPv4 connectivity (through NAT or some kind of translation mechanism on your router), then yes. Otherwise, no. 

Mostly, no. Most home routers don't support such translations. But this won't be a problem due to carrier grade NAT (so you still get IPv4 connectivity). 

For most people, this means nothing. Telcos still have alot of addresses (used, some even unused). What happens, depends on the country and telco. Most probably outcome is, that the cheapest internet packages (for end users) will be behing carrier-grade NAT, and power-users will be able to pay a few $/€/... more to get a public IP. Since alot of users have no idea what a public IP is, they wont pay for it. Service providers (CDN, etc.) will continue buying/renting IPs, like they've done until now... until the price gets too high. 

Not really. "Names" are used for TLS. You might have problems if you use ancient software which doesnt support IPv6 at all, but this is not TLS specific. 

Not really. If you signed up for an internet connection, you'd probably get put behind NAT or be dual-stacked, but most users wouldn't notice that (they usually have no idea about IPs, addresses, etc... alot of people called my ISPs helpdesk when Facebook was down for ~30 minutes, complaining that their internet doesn't work) 

If your problem is that you have two sites/business parters etc that have separate Internet ASes you can connect them together NOT through the Internet but over a VPN or private link. You have a couple of things to watch for if the address spaces are also advertised via the internet relate to administrative distance and prefix matching. BGP is preferred for many reasons, and you have to use it to talk over the internet. A little more on your use case assuming it is not entirely theoretical would help. At the end of the day there is no law that prevents you from using an IGP. But remember that any network vendor is in the business of selling you rope, what you do with the rope... 

The google search indicates the UTM appears to be a firewall. While you could get say a cheap router/firewall put it on a shelf and if the UTM dies physially replace it, that seems a bad idea as that boxes are not functionally equivlant. This is a form of redundancy though a static kind, as mentioned in the comment. Net of this is that if you need the firewall function you need a duplicate physical box. MAYBE you can 'limp along' with a less expensive spare box while you wait for your replacement firewall but that is a business call. Lastly most people here will tell you that your ISP connection will fail far more often than your hardware and that is what you need to make redundant first. 

Make sure the switchports of the DHCP server and the clients are in the same VLAN, or use a DHCP helper. The DHCP protocol by default relies on the server and clients being in the same broadcast domain. If they're not, DHCP requests won't reach the server unless you define a DHCP helper address. 

Another way to monitor and prevent them is by implementing storm control, which can help you to detect and stop broadcast, multicast and unknown unicast floods. Both Cisco and Juniper support this. On Cisco, you can use: 

No, that's incorrect. You're using netmask , so that are two different s. Just because you can summarize them to a doesn't make it a . If you want this to work, you'll need to change the netmask on all devices to , or place a router which is connected to both s and routes packets between them. 

IANA is responsible for the assignment of IP-blocks and AS-numbers to regional internet registries (RIRs). There are 5 RIR's: 

Your reasoning is the wrong way. TCP/IP handles the layers top down, not bottom up. PC A will first do a lookup in the routing table and decide that the only way to reach PC B is via the router specified in that routing table. If the MAC address of the router is unknown it will send an ARP request to figure out which MAC address corresponds to the gateway IP. Then the frame (containing the IP packet) will be sent to the MAC address of the router which will do a lookup in its routing table to see on which interface PC B is connected or via which next hop it should be routed. Assuming PC B is connected to another interface of the router the router will do a lookup (and if needed an ARP request) to figure out the MAC address of PC B and then forward the frame. 

Local(255.255.255.255) means that a router will not forward the packet (in some cases like DHCP the router will convert it to a unicast packet and forward it). Directed broadcast addresses have just the host part of the address as all 1s and routers will forward so if I have a subnet 10.10.10.0/24 I can ping from elsewhere in the network 10.10.10.255 and I would get an answer from all hosts. However there are a number of attack that exploit and you can configure your routers to not forward directed broadcasts. 

I will assume you are running IBGP, you never send a prefix you received via IBGP to an IBGP neighbor, also there would be split horizon (don't send a route back to the person who sent it to you). Since this box only has one neighbor and it is not originating any routes by itself, it will not send any routes, so the policy is implicit, but there. 

You probably want to be polling the CAM/MAC tables, that would have the MAC address of any devices send any traffic through the switch. ARP is L3 CAM/ARP is L2 

Assuming that all link speeds are the same, things become hop count. If you explicitly set a root bridge the switch 'across' from it in the ring will have the blocked port, it will be the port with the higher MAC address. There is no real difference in blocked port selection between rapid and 'classic' STP 

Yes, it will be accessible (that's the point!), but it will probably be firewalled by default on your router. 

TCP header is located after the IP header, so the TCP/IP stack knows all four (and many more) values. Those four values are used to form a unique connection ID ("socket"), which is used to recieve and send packets to/from the remote host. 

By default it is set to 20, but you can change the value to 40 (or more). Proper way to do this would be via sysctl setting. For the second part, if all the devices were in the same multicast group, all the devices would recieve all the other packets from all the other devices (as in broadcast), which can cause more power usage and/or processing power usage on embedded devices. 

No, we can't. What we can do, with better modulation, is approach the shannon limit more closely. Otherwise, if you need more bandwidth (in megabits), either increase the bandwidth (in (mega)Hertz), or increase the signal/lower the nose to get better SNR. 

127.0.0.0/8 as a destination address (manually crafted packet, with the targets MAC address in the header) 

So when a packet comes to an interface, it checks the destination IP, see if it matches any of the networks defined in it's routing table, and sends the packet there. If it doesn't match any of the defined routes, it sends it via the default route/gateway ("all other destinations"). If the default route/gateway is not set, it sends back the "destination unreachable" icmp message to the packet source. If you have NAT turned on, it also keeps a NAT table, where it keeps all the connections. So when your internal PC with an ip from a private range (eg 192.168.1.2) sends a packet outside, the router replaces the private source address, in the IP header, with a public one, assigned to the router, and stores the connection in the NAT table. So when a packet comes back, to the routers public interface, it checks the NAT table to see where it should send it, and changes the destination IP (public one on the router) to an internal one (eg. 192.168.1.2). 

FETs are not required to connect 2Ks, they are far cheaper than SFPs and for some odd reason (to me) you can only order them when you order 2ks. As Ricky said you are going to see a non standard Ethernet encapsulation but that is a matter of does wireshark support it. Cisco will be happy to take the extra $$s for SFP+ 

The switch keeps an arp cache like any host. One reason for having an arp cache and using it is when you have non routed subnets (like oracle RAC clusters) so you may not want to put an SVI on the L3 switch (I will run a direct connection between the two switches involved in the NIC team only allow the non routed vlans over it) and put SVIs in the switch for the address space so I can ping the heartbeat interfaces. Then look at the arp table then can find with switch port, easier then getting an ifconfig from the server. It is true that in general the SVI in a switch is just used for management so the only arp entry is for the default gateway, but in certain configurations using multiple SVIs and exploiting ARP can be a great help. 

Most products require you to configure MAC addresses in DHCP for imaging to, so a normal PC will not use DHCP addresses from the imaging server, this begs the question why have a PXE VLAN? I use one for servers but all production networks are tagged so we can rebuild the server without needing to change the switch, but I would suggest this setup is needlessly complex. Use 2 DHCP servers 1 to build and one for normal operations and have a small scope in the build DHCP server.