You should enable DHCP snooping on your switch.DHCP snooping was solely designed for this particular use case. The fundamental use case for DHCP snooping is to prevent unauthorized (rogue) DHCP servers offering IP addresses to DHCP clients. Rogue DHCP servers are often used in man in the middle or denial of service attacks for malicious purposes. 

If you can afford to change the operating system in the client.Then I have a solution which might just work for your scenario. Capture the packets using TCPDUMP Option 1: Execute the commands in one shot--> if down; If up;tcpdump -i wlan0 -w cap.pcap Option 2: Create a small script to capture the packets and places it in if-up.d A small version like below should do the job. /etc/network/if-up.d #!/bin/bash tcpdump -s0 -i wlan0 -C 50 -w /path/to/ capture-$(date +%a-%d%m%y-%H%M-%S).pcap This script will be invoked when the interface is up and your packets will be available in the required path with timestamp.Later on,You can open the pcap in wireshark and look for your data flow Hope this will help you. 

I think you are confused with the terms Point to Point and TR-069 here. An ISP normally uses IPOE/PPPOE/PPPOA for establishing the connectivity between CPE(Modem/Gateway) and their BRAS. They also use their own radius server to authenticate the PPP connection for obvious reasons. TR-069 is a mechanism to provision a Gateway/Modem with the respective plan(End customer plans based on their chosen plan) and other operation from the network operator point of view.TR-069 also can be used to fetch the complete data model of the Modem and operator can pretty much read and write(only Writable Parameters) from the CPE. In addition to this,ISP will also set a periodic inform counter in which CPE will also send periodic Inform with information such as Model number,Software version and other details towards ISP's ACS(Access Control System). This is how ISP understand the firmware version of the CPE and trigger a Software upgrade on a scheduled basis. TR-069 can also be used for ISP to trigger Remote Procedure calls where CPE will trigger WiFi Scan,GET,Set, etc operations. On a layman perspective, PPP is L2 protocol and TR-069 is an application layer protocol. I will be more happy to provide more detailed answer for any queries regarding CWMP or TR-069.Let me know if you need more info on this. 

Always refer the RFC.That is pretty much your bible! I have also just did a trace on my laptop for your understanding as well. 

I have just configured the IPSEC tunnel between my router and the Access point.I could see that the Tunnel has came up and Active in both sides. However,When I checked the "Show cyrpto ipsec sa" ,I Could see that decaps packet counters are getting incremented but the encaps packets are always showed as 0. I think the router is able to decrypt the packets in it's ingress path but it is not encrypting the outbound packets or the packets are not getting routed through the tunnel. Can someone guide me to fix this? 

I have setup one IPv6 6to4 tunnel between two routers.The tunnel seems to be up and running and I'm able to ping from Router R1 to R2 as well. However,I would like mirror the WAN port to see the packet structure in wireshark. I don't have a L2/l3 managed switch with me now.How can I mirror the WAN port traffic to one of the port in router itself? say (WAN) FE4 to (LAN)FE0? 

If you refer the DHCP RFC 3456,You can see that the DHCP offer message is actually unicast and not multicast.I would suggest you to monitor the ethernet interface of the client using wireshark itself or tcpdump in this case. Otherwise a better approach would be to enable port mirroring on the interface which is connected to your client or simply connect it to hub(Old school,But it works!). 

Enable connectivity from Application server to Acces point 1,2 and 3 Enable connectivity from Desktop (D01) to Application server( Already enabled by configuring intervlan routing on Router R2) Enable IPv6 connectivity between application servers and the three access points. 

You are partially right.Actually,The channel naming conventions will be slightly different when you look through the call flows in GSM,UMTS and LTE. The information related to MCC,MNC will be transmitted through in the BBCH-DL-SCH channel.There are several type of SIB which get transmitted over the air and MCC and MNC will be covered as a part of SIB1. The UE will latch into these channels and decode SIB to populate the parameters in the UE scope. SIB 1 Parameters: 

I have the tcpdump data for the below mentioned command.This is to perform a test on the network to derive the bits per second. Is it possible? sudo ping6 fd9c:b4f9:3108:1045:213:5003:59:324e -c 10 -i .31725 -s 1380 

Yes,The first part of your question is possible.You can very well do the NIC bonding of two NICs connected to a machine and increase the throughput. However,Network Latency cannot be improved simply by NIC bonding.Latency will be a bottleneck due to physical limitations. Please also note that you may also have to configure the Link aggregation at the Router/Switch side as well. Reference:$URL$ 

Your question is little bit vague and general in nature.However,I will explain it in layman terms. The way your mobile works with a cell tower is totally different from it works or obtain an IP from a DHCP Server. I will take LTE(4G) for example. The process of connecting to a cell tower/eNodeB is called as attach.You send your information about your mobile and sim card to the eNodeB. In the LTE architecture the component called PDN gateway is the anchoring point to UE/Mobile and it takes care of the IP address allocation to UE. It is safe to say that you are comparing apple to oranges when you compare Wifi and cell tower. To answer your question in short,No the cellphone doesn't broadcast its's ID rather it obtain the connection in RACH channel and attempt to attach to the network. 

Can you guide me to achieve the goal #1 and #2? If possible I would like to avoid adding static route on Router R2. Can a static route in Router R1 alone can enable #1 and #2 requirements? Router Config: 

Yes. You will be able to access your NAS from all the desktops. The switch works in L2 layer. Your DHCP discovery request will reach the Router and all the Desktops will get the IP from the LAN subnet configured in the router abd you will get IP from 10.0.1.x range itself 

The server will be by default listening to 5201 for incoming connections and binded to the default network interface. 

PPP_IPTV for STB services at 122.123.124.125 IP range. PPP_Data for Default data at 172.15.45.1 PPP_VOIP for VOIP services at 181.44.22.44 

The smartphone these days are majorly powered by SOC from Qualcomm,Mediatek,Huawei Kirin. So it's purely depends upon the SOC in the smartphone. Very rarely smartphones have separate WiFi chipsets. For instance the latest Qualcomm Snapdragaon 820 is with 802.11ac. Just identify the SOC of your phone and google the datasheet/specifications.You will find your answers. 

I'm planning to enable the connectivity with our access points as shown in the Diagram. I would like to understand how can I enable the routing between 192.168.1.1/25 (FE4)and 10.140.134.0/25(FE1). The Cisco Router allows the interface configuration only on the FE4 port.Hence I configured all the AP's IPsec destination as FE4. Goals: 

Your question isn't quiet clear but I believe you are referring to the number of SSID. Is there an upper limit? Yes,The number of SSID depends upon the Wireless chipset you use in the router.Generally,Chipset vendors like Quantenna/Broadcom will have minimum capacity to configure 4 SSIDs(Two 2.4 ghz Generic SSIDs and Two 5Ghz Guest SSIDs) .It can go higher also.AFAIK,I have seen maximum of 6 SSIDs in the data model. In some cases,Even if the firmware supports 16 SSIDs but the software might have only configured 4 SSIDs. If your router support Open Wrt then you can find the command to list the number of SSIDs supported by your firmware. In short,The number of SSIDs are clearly depended upon the Wireless chipset you use in the Router.Perhaps,you can find that information in the respective datasheet of the same. 

There are several enterprise grade tools and hardware is available to evaluate your network performance.This will give you detailed statistics of your network performance with accurate and detailed report. Spirent and Ixia are really good to achieve the same. However,If you are not concerned about detailed report and 100% accuracy then Iperf tool also can be used to do the same trick. You can install Iperf Server on your database server#1 and client on the database server #2. Then try to push/pull the data between the servers using iperf tool. It is a very well documented tool and you can switch between UDP and TCP protocols.I have also forked Iperf for SCTP protocol for my own testing. 

Yes,Most likely.However,Some ISP used to provide Static IP free for their premium users or users who pay for higher plans. 

Let me know how does it go. As far as the latency is concerned,You can use hping3 for measuring the latency and for a detailed report. 

Yes, it is possible to sniff the wireless packets. You would need airpcap and a wireless adapter which is compatible with airpcap.Basically,an adapter which supports monitoring mode. Google for the sniffing wireless packets using airpcap and you will get detailed guides. If you wanna take it up further then I suggest you to install kali linux and get an Alfa card as wireless adapter. You can filter using bsssid in wireshark to filter the router and client. 

Your description and Heading contradicts each other.In description you mentioned that you want to achieve it without using VLAN and QOS.However,In description you have mentioned that "enable either VLAN X if its a IPTV Box connected or VLAN Y if its a SOHO Router connected". Given that,the best method is to use QOS and VLAN to achieve your requirement.There is also another method do it using a different way. Iptables + tc in a linux based router Identifier for Device: You can use the Option 60 in DHCP request.Vendor Class identifier to understand the type of device connected. Bandwidth rate limiting Logic You can use both iptables policies and tc to limit the bandwidth for particular devices with different Vendor class identifier. Since your query doesn't have more details about the bandwidth rate or name of vendor class identifiers.I will just give some sample commands for your reference. Sample TC rule for 100mbps 

Faster connectivity to End Customer and Priority for the SetTop Box Traffic in your network.Constraint: STB doesn't support QOS. SOHO router packets need to be considered with lower priority and treated in a differnt VLAN. 

Do you have access/own the Gateway/Router at the Customer Premise.If yes,then Scheduling and Prioritizing the packets with different queues can provide a solution for this. Option #1: Using vendor class idetifier Assuming that an STB can be identified using DHCP option 60 in the network,You can tag all the packets from STB with Higher priority with (eg. "CS5" for Broadcast Video).Similarly you can tag all the SIP/RTP packets with "EF" priority and rest of the packets in Best effort queue. This will help you to maintain a good QOS for customers. Option #2: Why don't you create and establish different PPPOE from WAN (at Router)based on the service. 

It really depends of the type of vendor for the BRAS.However,BRAS doesn't use Consumer grade Linux or Windows User,simply because their architecture is not designed for a highly critical device in an ISP infrastructure. Most of the BRAS equipment vendors will have their own proprietor OS with different licenses for their expensive features and cards. Huawei ME60-X16 uses proprietary OS and will support the below mentioned use cases. Switching Capacity :25.2 Tbit/s User access protocol: PPPoE, PPPoEoA, IPoE, IPoEoA, and PPPoA 802.1X User authentication protocol: PAP, CHAP, MSCHAP, RADIUS, and HWTACACS User accounting protocol: RADIUS, HWTACACS, and COPS User authorization protocol: RADIUS, HWTACACS, and COPS Policy protocol: COPS and COA 22 slots, including 2 MPUs (1:1 backup), 4 SFUs (3+1 backup), and 16 LPUs Similarly a BRAS provided by Juniper or ZTE will have different spec and their own OS.