If you cannot install as an upgrade and warning are asking you to unistal and instal fresh then that is what you should do. 

I have a weird issue here. I notice about once a week the web server restarts itself. This would be only a minor issue if we were not planning on implementing an IP failover. I have checked the event logs. I don't see anything that indicates a reason for the restart. I need some help diagnosing the reason the server restarts. It happened last night at 5:00AM Last even in the log was 1 hour before the unexpected shutdown. Here is the Log for the shutdown event. Any help is much appreciated. I know there isn't much to go on yet. 

I have an exchange server 2003 running in Windows 2003. I have an unnamed program that listened for incoming mail, signs it with DKIM and then should relay it back to the Exchange server. I am a little lost on how to configure the SMTP in exchange 2003 system manager to relay sent mail through the proxy and then listen for it to come back signed. Once that is complete it is to send the mail to the specified address. I know it involved relay and possibly connectors but the exact steps have eluded me. Lets assume the proxy works perfect I just want to know how to relay to a specified IP and port then listen on another port when it comes back and then send it out. Thanks, 

Use multiple namespaces to get the shorter path. So instead of having a share and then your folders for DFS inside. Make each individual folder its own namespace and publish those. Though I feel having all the replicated shares in one place makes it easier for the users to visually pick the folder they want out of the many. They only then need to remember one path. The users can check our wiki if they forget it. Our DFS namespace is \\DOMAIN.LOCAL\datastore and all the replicated shares are inside there. There may be a slight performance increase in going everything in one namespace but I don't feel it is significant. Hope that gives you a little insight. 

We are a legitimate company. We have had some issues in the past with Virus attacks/ Spam bots getting our email server blacklisted. After the most recent attack I have been tasked at coming up with a solution that would allow us to, once determined we are blocked, switch over to a clean server and IP Here is how my superiors expect this to work... (I feel with the way email is setup and monitored by the blacklists this may not work as they expect.... though the blacklists do function on IP and not domain name....) Determine which computer or exchange server is infected. Move to clean exchange server or remove infected computer from network Switch the company over to a functional and virus free exchange server. (a secondary is standing by) Switch the exchange server to a secondary IP address to avoid blacklisting. The idea here is to move to a clean virus free server and an unblocked IP. Questions: 

Remove the exchange server from the First Administrative Group first. First if you haven't already promote the new exchange server as the master: go to Exchange System Manager > Administrative Groups > First Administrative Group > Routing Groups > First Routing Group > Members Right click your new server and click "set as master" To remove the old exchange server go to Exchange System Manager > Administrative Groups > First Administrative Group > Servers. Right click the old server go to All Tasks > Remove server if you get an error like this 

What is happening exactly when a user chooses to archive their mail? Should I use cached exchange mode? I like its speed and reduction in network traffic. How should an administrator properly archive old mail in this environment? I know we are missing older emails. What steps would one suggest to try and locate it. 

Your model does support duplexing (double sided printing) though it is a manual process with a driver to support it. I believe if you installed the printers on a DC then push them using a logon script or whatever to the workstations you should be able to just change the settings in printers on the DC and that should propagate to the workstations. 

Admins must have changed the setting. In a comment I asked Jerry to check. He asked his admins and they confirmed and fixed the problem. 

Similarily this commmand can enable 32-Bit applications appcmd apppool set /apppool.name:MyAppPool32bit /enable32BitAppOnWin64:true The first thing required is to install a hotfix located in \stanley\Apps\Design and programming\SQL Server 2005\hotfix server 2008 KB: $URL$ Once this hotfix has been applied start up the Setup.exe for SQL Server 2005. Click Continue Anyways when prompted about the known compatibility issue. Go through the setup process to install SQL. PS I forgot to mention the memory usage on sql 2005 x32 on a 2008 x64 server gave us alot of trouble and would use up all the ram on the server and sql would crash till it was manually reset... We switched to sql 2008 

www is a subdomain of myname.com www.charity.org is not a subdomain of myname.org it is a subdomain of charity.org.... which is a subdomain of the TLD .org.... ETC. for mybook.com Regardless you should brush up on what a subdomain is.... There is a good meta on it on Serverfault somewhere... or Wikipedia is always good :) And the answer to your question is no it will not effect your other domains as long as you continue to cover their costs with the hosting company. 

Right click on the attachment Click "Save link as" Done! Just tested this with a .docx EDIT: Screenshot alt text $URL$ If that is to hard to see click here 

Yes Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 is a separate license and must be purchased. You can accomplish an upgrade from Server 2008 to Server 2008 R2. Licensing Pricing 

Simply put you must activate the mirror from the principal server in the High Safety mode without automatic fail over. This method is great for planned outages and maintenance. It is not really beneficial in a disaster or unplanned downtime scenario as you cannot fail over without access to the principal server. I use a very low cost old computer running MSSQL express as the monitor server. It has windows XP pro on it. I am sure you can find a small computer to carry out the task of the monitor server. Something that can meet minimum requirements for MSSQL express will do fine. Hope this helps. 

We currently run Symantec Antivirus Corporate 10.2. The software is really easy to manage on a network but the actual virus detection isn't bad but the malware detection is crap. We recently were infected with a email bot that got us put on some block lists. This has been resolved. I cannot have that happen again. I would like to find a program as easy to manage as symantec that I can install on all the user's workstations as well as the servers. We run a windows 2003 domain. We have a couple 2008 test servers in the environment. Most of the workstations are xp though I am using windows 7 and symantect is not compatible with this OS... So we need a solution that would cover all those operating systems. If it could be installed on macs too that would be a bonus though not necessary at all. This software must detect: Viruses AND Malware I am looking for something that combines the features in anti-malware programs like malwarebytes or spybot with an antivirus program like symantec or AVG. Alternatively if there is a piece of hardware that is a firewall, router, and packet inspection for virus/spam that would be the most ideal solution. I then could supplement with a piece of software that could pickup what the hardware misses. Thank you for your suggestions. UPDATE: I am in talks with AVG for their AVG Internet Security Business Edition. Have others used this program? How did they find the admin panel for it? Any suggestions for removing Symantec to install AVG? UPDATE2: I am waiting to get AVG approved for our servers. Any input that is against this decision? Any horror stories? 

I wouldn't say sync IIS. Would you be interested in replicating the websites physical files? If so check out DFS as it can span 32 and 64 bit systems you just need a domain. It is VERY easy to setup and works great! I use it to sync our constantly changing social network between two servers. I sync user files as well as new launches of the site from the production server to the standby server. Here is a link to the technet overview. Hope that helps. May be a lot simpler this way. But may not be what you are trying to do. 

Not sure if this is the best way to achieve this but here is the background and the goal. BACKGROUND We are a small business. Sometimes myself or the other person who is capable of dealing with an email outage is not available.... Usually it is as simple as restarting the old and tired out exchange box to bring it back online... this is obviously a temporary fix till I can get to the cause of the particular outage. But the idea is to limit the downtime caused by this to our call center. GOAL: I want to setup a one time use Admin account. OR write a scrip that allows the user to simply restart the server. Understand this users current account is limited to just a domain user not an admin of any type. Additional Information Idea with a one time use account is the user can use it once. Log in make changes and once they are done and logged out the account is then locked out or has its password change or is disabled. Anything to stop them from using it a second time. This way there is some accountability to the user to use it only for emergencies and for its intended purpose and not as a easy way to adjust their limited account or install software among other things. As for the script I understand that due to the limited permission on standard users this user would be unable using their current permission to do a PSSHUTDOWN.EXE on the exchange box remotely. So we would have to come up with a good method in order to allow the user to do a restart. Should be a simple VB script which is not the issue. My issue is creating some form of security allowing them to type in just maybe a password to have the process commence. Bonus points if you can include stopping of services in the script. things like I can fill in the others once I see how you implement the first one. net stop "Microsoft Exchange Information Store" I feel the second plan seems a lot safer. This way I can just use security by obscurity. Not tell him the RDP port and not have him actually on the system but more so just using a password to activate the restart. So assistance in this is greatly appreciated. Or alternative suggestions are always welcome. 

If unfreeze didn't work did you try to force? Try this: Open Exchange System Manager: First Administrative Group > Servers> "Server Name" > Queues Right click the queue in question and click Force Connection. It could fail for a few reason Message size to large recipient doesn't exist or is unreachable domain does not exists or is unreachable etc... You can click find messages and search for it. If there is only one that will make it easy. Check out the properties see if that sheds some light on it. 

I am getting these two error in the DNS Event log (errors at end of question). I have confirmed I do have duplicate zones. I am wondering which ones to delete. The DomainDNSZone contains all of our DNS records but it does not have the _msdcs zone.... that is in the ForestDNSZone with the duplicates that are not in use. 3 Questions. I understand the advantages of having DNS in the ForestDNSZone. so... 

Everything is up to date with latest service packs. Occasionally a user will be prompted to archive their old mail. Some click this... We use cached exchange mode. 4 Questions 

Here is the Technet on Service Principal Names. Give it a read. We use a Scheduled Tasks Admin Account to run all our tasks. We have it in the Users OU. This is available on all computers on the domain to be used for scheduled tasks. The user is a member of Administrators, Backup Operators, Domain Users, Local Administrators, Replicator, and Server Operators. Hope that helps 

I feel that is an option when the user sets up the account. Here are my directions Account Settings > New Account > Internet E-Mail > Check Manually configure and click next. Type in your settings and click the "More Settings" button. Then click the "Advanced" tab. The last section in there is "Delivery". Check the "Leave a copy of the messages on the server and make sure the Remove options are NOT checked. This should do it! 

You absolutely can! The only requirement for XP is that it is Professional Edition. I would suggest IIS as it is easier to setup the password protection as you can use windows privileges to control it. Go to "Control Panel" > "Add or Remove Programs" and on the left side click "Add/Remove Windows Components" Check off "Internet Information Services (IIS)" make sure you have your windows disk as it is required to install this component. If you need help in how to setup IIS for a website check this link out As for a password it can be done a few ways. One way is in IIS right click your site and select properties. Navigate to the Directory Security Tab and click "Edit" on the "Anonymous access and authentication control" You can uncheck "Anonymous Access" and setup "Authenticated Access" below. This is to setup IIS 5.1 on Windows XP. IIS 7.5 for Windows 7 is much improved if you can get your hands on a copy of Windows 7 you will be doing yourself a favor. Make sure your firewall on the local machine is open on your websites port or your networked computers will not be able to browse to the local site. Hope this helps.