I got drafted into repairing a friend's laptop. He got a virus and after removing it the laptop would no longer boot into Windows. After banging my head against the wall for several days I've finally admitted that at this point a reinstall is the only option. I've already backed up most of his important stuff to an external using a Linux live cd. Here's the issue: The laptop came with a recovery partition, which is unfortunately not working. So I burned a copy of the official Windows 7 install disk and want to use that. But the laptop is a few years old and the sticker on the bottom with the product key is illegible. To my knowledge the key isn't written down anywhere else, and I don't want to start the reinstall without being able to activate it. So, is there any way to find the Windows product key without being able to read the sticker or boot up windows? I can access the filesystem using the live cd, but thats about it. Thanks 

I've got two hard drives in my computer, one with Windows and one with Linux (Vista and Mint 16, respectively). If I boot up Linux, I can then mount the other hard drive and access files on it. Each file in Windows has an access time that says when it was last opened. What I'm wondering is if that only shows when it was last opened in Windows, or when it was last opened in general. Or, in other words, are file access times OS dependent? Note: I am using the generic window and linux tags because I am curious how this works in general, and not just on my specific machine 

I'll be re-install my Operating system in my desktop, It would be a clean version of windows7. I wonder if there's a software that lets me install my application automatically or an easier way to install all my old application. I still have all my installer sitting in my hard drive. I just need a software to automate it, but not to hard to configure it. What would be the process that you would recommend if you're in my shoes. I'm still using my old windows 7 here in my desktop. But before I format my old drives, I would want to get your suggestions and opinions. I also stumbled on a cool software "Windows Post-Install Wizard" But the problem of this is I'm having hard time to configure it. Thanks! 

My Hard Disk Drive just got corrupted due to electricity fluctuation. When I plug my Western Digital Elements, It ask me if I want to format it or not... I can't see my files or even the capacity of my disk from it's properties. Is there any solution you would suggest? looking for a software that can give me access to my files. I just need to copy it then I can retire my Drive and will buy a new one... Thanks! 

I'm really curious of those software that promise you to make your RAM bigger and faster. But before I try it, I have to get your thoughts on it, Does the software really make your RAM run faster or boost your RAM? I just know that when you buy a physical RAM (eg. 2GB) and thats it. now if you wan't to make your computer run faster you would have to add/upgrade some of the hardware. Please share your Ideas. Thanks! 

I believe you're seeing the box because the account you set to run it as is your own. Try either of these: 1: Run the task as the user NT Authority\System 2: Make a new account and set the task to run with its credentials 

Forget another pc. Use this to feed to your vcr or dvd recorder. It converts your pc's vga output to s-video, composite or componet video (some of which you'll find on many late model recorders). You can split your audio out of your pc and feed it into the rca jacks of the recorder easily. Radio shack has the audio splitter for that if you need it. 

No, it is not true. You have to understand in the corporate world (and the military) there tend to be a lot of tribal stories made up to scare people about things that are not really true. These tribal beliefs can extend up and down the chain of command. For example, one place I worked for I kept being told the policy was to "never ever install anything anywhere for any reason... you could get fired." This was even though I read the black and white policy which said not to install pay for or trial software. Why would they make the distinction if the supposed rule is "never ever?" Tribal beliefs are near impossible to change. There would need to be special hardware on the usb ports of the computers in order to "kill" attached devices. The only thing that I could think of to actually do this would be some sort of high voltage spike to destroy the physical components of the flash drive and something like that is too inspector gadgetish for me to believe. Even if they did install something like that I would think they'd run the risk of injuring their employees with the fireworks that could potentially result. Really, you have to be able to ignore a lot of garbage people tell you, or at least remember to "trust, but verify." The only thing it could do would be to wipe as Xantac guessed, and I think even that is highly unlikely. Users with knowledge could easily stop such a script. 

Notice that when i downloaded the images, i am only interested in placing them in the secondary directory ("vegetable" and "pets") and didn't include the first directory anymore... Is there any software that let me do this? I have a MACOSX and Also have a Windows 7, So any would do for me. Thank You. 

Are there software you know that can copy images from a DVD? now the problem is there images in the DVD that are corrupt that I won't force to copy, If the software can recover the file and copy it that would be cool, If it cannot then skip the file. The dvd is kinda large and I don't want to sit and wait there. I want the DVD do the decision, If it can recover then recover if it cannot, then skip. And do you know other solution copying corrupt files? thanks! 

I have a software that accesses a website, I want to monitor what website is it accessing and block that website. Is there a software similar to "windows task manager" that allows you to monitor software that accesses a website? I want to know what website/server is it accessing so I could then block it. And Is there an alternative way to block aside from "host" file? Thanks! FYI: running on Win7 

Can anyone suggest a good software that lets you download file urls or image urls and put it on an organize structure you specify. let say i have a bunch of images to download that is structure like this. 

Do you know any software or compilations that you recommend to handle drivers and codecs for newly formated computer? I am having problem gathering drivers and codecs when I format my computer or other's computer because we frequently misplace it's original drivers. I need an offline solution that doesn't need internet. Same for as the codec, when formating computer we frequently lost our codecs, are there codec packs you know that you would like to recommend? P.s. I had tried driver bot but it's only good when your online, I'm looking for a complete package that has all the driver to most common hardware (eg. Monitor, Sound, etc). Thanks! 

Can you view and take new pictures on the card using the camera? If so, This proves the card is good. Your pictures are not lost. It would then possibly be a software issue (Kodak, maybe re-install) or get a card reader and pull them off directly. I personally prefer to go direct to avoid using the bloated software the manufacturers typically put out. If your camera cannot take new pictures to and read from the card... your out of luck as they say. If the pictures are extremely valuable to you, you might be able to take it to a data recovery specialist shop but I doubt that will help. 

Your ability to boot to a livecd shows fairly conclusively that the problem is a corruption of the windows installation. The circumstances of the initial problem back that up. For simplicity, you should reinstall on a separate HD and then use data recovery methods to get your stuff back. If you don't have a spare HD, go get one off craigslist/Goodwill/pawnshop/buddy that has one, format it and go. Or, get one online. It all depends on how much you want to spend and how quickly you need this done. BTW, you need (judging from your description) a small ups. Black Friday's coming and you should be able to pick one up for a song. 

And, how many attempts did you have to make before you got it right? I'm about to do a 80gb to 80gb clone for archival purposes and want to make the best move here. 

I spilled lemonade on mine a week or 2 ago. It was a lot. My laptop immediately shut off (without being told). I immediately removed the battery and power cable (minimizing damage) and set about removing all the moisture. I have some experience taking laptops apart, but not a whole lot. I removed the keyboard and enough covers to access just about all the internal components. The keyboard was had most of the moisture and I found some drops on the pcb under the memory and various drops elsewhere on the pcb. After soaking up as much as I could by spot blotting with a towel (don't just throw your towel on and mash away--only blot where you see drops) and letting it air dry for about a half hour, I reassembled and tried firing it up. It didn't work. It was as if the power button was inop. The power light did come on with the cable plugged in though. The final step in solving this was spraying a lot of contact cleaner in the keyboard (had to remove the keyboard to do this) letting it soak a bit and then spraying copious ammounts of compressed air in/on it to dry it completely. After that, it's worked like a champ. If you got a lot of moisture on the pcb under the keyboard, it is probably more dangerous but still worth trying the contact cleaner & air dry method I used on the keyboard. Here's a video to use as sort of a guide on disassembly $URL$ Here's the contact cleaner I used for the keyboard: $URL$ 

Is there an an efficient way of copying selected files to a new folder? I have a list of files I want to copy (including the path), I'm just not sure what command I can run to achieve my goal. I need to make a copy of some of the files, and preserve it's original directory structure. The selected files have varying location, some resides in the root folder while some are nested in sub folders. Source: 

I found my answer and it's Chrom Dev Tool Autosave $URL$ It's an awesome way to edit css and js on the fly without leaving your browser. A short intro $URL$ 

I need help/guide how I can open my ssh access from a GUI or Filezilla. Here's the scenario my developer just left me with the login info to my Amazon EC2. Now I am finding difficulties in understanding all this stuff. I used PuTTy and command prompt just to connect to my server using ssh process. It uses some bridge process just to connect to my actual server. right now he provided me 2 sets of login. [Set1] 

Is there anyway I can do automation on the background while doing other activities in my Laptop? I'm using Keyboard Maestro with recorded event, like mouse interaction to a form and looping from a datasource. If I'm doing the automation I cannot do other stuff in my laptop because my mouse and other actions are being utilized by the Keyboard Maestro automation process. Is there I can split my window (like virtual machine) without installing a new Mac OSX? probably just a small software that will virtually give me an option have 2 windows running without interfering the other one. or else i think I'll have to install Mac OSX in my VMWare just to run the automation process. Any thoughts? Thank You.