As of right now, it's working for a few minutes every few hours then failing the rest of the time. I'm truly stumped and any suggestions for ways to troubleshoot this will be greatly appreciated. UPDATE I am not able to login to ADFS natively, which further indicates to me it's not an issue with the service provider, but with ADFS/AD itself. 

At this point, the error was only occurring for a subset of AD users. On those users, I reset their passwords, which then resolved the issue. Although I am not entirely sure why this started happening or how these steps fixed it, my theory is that not using one service account to manage all of it led to files being written that couldn't be read in by processes running under a different account. Hope this helps someone. Update: Another possible cause of the error is if you change the UPN in Active Directory to a string containing a space, this error shows up. 

Ensured W32Time service was using NTP (it wasn't) Ensure all updates were installed (they were) Ensure all services were running under a service account, not an domain controller account (they weren't) After making sure ADFS was running under the service account, recreate the Service Provider 

At this point, the error was only occurring for a subset of AD users. On those users, I reset their passwords, which then resolved the issue. Although I am not entirely sure why this started happening or how these steps fixed it, my theory is that not using one service account to manage all of it led to files being written that couldn't be read in by processes running under a different account. Hope this helps someone. 

the page doesn't resolve. When I try to access the webpage from the physical server, I am presented with a page that has 4 boxes and a question mark. Any Help Is Much Appreciated. EDIT: Apparently I suck a QA-ing. The problem was what when I tried to access the OMSA webpage for my server from another machine, the page would be "unable to load". But, if I open a web browser while I'm at the server that I have OMSA installed on, then I am presented with a page containing four boxes and a question mark. Turns out that I just didn't have the appropriate ports open. My apologies to you all for not being clear and thank you all for your help. 

Can anyone help me find the proper syntax for the regex that I need for this to work? I'm not a regex expert by any means. I'm probably just doing something simple wrong. Any help you can provide is most appreciated. 

And it has yielded that I am, as I suspected, missing the dependencies that I accidentally removed. But, I'm not quite sure how to install all the missing dependencies (as there are quite a few, I would like to install them all at once.) and restore VirtualBox to its original state. Can anyone offer some advice? I have tried just a yum install of VirtualBox 4.2, but to no avail. Thanks 

It appears as though my mail server is interpreting the "h=mime" line as a command. After some research, I followed this thread: 

To me it seems the denial is explicitly the same as the rule. Same dport, same proto, same in interface. So I only wonder if it has something to do with it not being the right chain? gives: 

I have a self-hosted authoritative DNS server, using MaraDNS. We're having smaller periods of unresponsiveness during peak times. I'm guessing because of this it has to do with MaraDNS not having enough resources. I want to monitor how many DNS requests it's getting, I can't seem to find anything that would log numbers of requests for a time (just full requests which seems like overkill). See maraDNS config reference, log_level. One thing I could do is: would get incoming traffic I believe, would keep the output to one line and simple. I don't know what the tcpdump will look like for getting a request. Then I'd just write 1's to a file and do a to see how many requests came in. Is there a better way? Is there other ways to monitor DNS systems with more granularity? Thanks! 

I'm more of developer but have some experience with sysadmin stuff, but certainly not the intricacies of MX records and SMTP. Any thoughts? 

I've set the Restore on AC/Power Loss from the windows Bios menu on computer startup for a few Windows machines. How can someone confirm (remotely) that I have done that, is there a way to do this from a remote desktop? Bonus points if you know how to change it remotely (if it can be done). What I've done: 

I run into this error every time I try to update (CentOS 6) on four different servers. It only happens with this package. After researching the problem, I haven't been able to find any useful info. People have had very similar problems to this, but not this particular one. Can anyone offer me any advice on how to fix this issue? 

I'm running a CentOS 6 server with VirtualBox 4.2 Headless. Lately my virtualbox installation hasn't been running correctly. The problem is that, whenever I try to do something I get this error: 

I believe this is happening because one of my virtual machines were not working. So, after following a forum, I added symlinks to the /usr/lib/virtualbox/components directory. After that didn't fix the problem, I followed another guide that did offer me a solution. But, when I tried to remove the links, I accidentally removed them from /usr/lib/virtualbox/ directory. After trying to re-add them from the components directory, I get an error saying that it already exists. But, I don't know where to add the symlinks in the /usr/lib/virtualbox/ directory. I have run 

But the weird thing is, the mail still goes through... Upon inspection of my maillogs, I see lines similar to: 

parameter to my /etc/postfix/main.cf file, then added some regex to the bogus_commands file to try and replace any command beginning with 

Some of my users are using Gmail to send mail to our domain (The mail server for which is hosted on a CentOS 5 machine with postfix). Sometimes, but not all the time, when they do, they get a bounceback similar to: