Recently I ran into a problem where our D drive was needing moved to another server and coincidentally the WSUS content was in need of a good cleaning. We recently upgraded many things within our network and no longer needed to have all of the older synched files for Windows XP + others. So I figured it would be a good time to reinstall WSUS for a nice clean start. I first documented the structure of how we have it setup. Then removed the service through control panel. I attempted to reinstall the program and all was fine until the prompt asking to "use the existing IIS default Web Site (recommended)" or "Create a Microsoft Windows Server Update Services Web site". I opted for the default as expected but it would immediately encounter an error, want to close and check for possible resolutions online. I tried a couple times with similar results. I figured I'd reboot for good measure in case there were some temp files needing cleared out after uninstalling. After booting back up, I tried again with no luck, it had the same problem. So I instead chose the second option (versus the recommended option). This time, the install went fine. It has synchronized with MS, I've created the groups like they were before, but so far no PCs are populating in the folders. This is the same server as before, all names are the same with the exception of it's not the default site now. I'm assuming there's a problem with the IIS install of the website, or maybe a matter of pointing our GPO to a new site? Currently it's just set at "$URL$ The WSUS site is now named "WSUS Administration" and the pool name is "WsusPool". Would I need to modify the GPO setting to say "$URL$ for it to work? Thanks for the help! 

It works fine for putting them all in on file, but I can't tell who's email belongs to who. I also ran it on my mailbox specifically but I'd rather not run that manually on every user as that would take awhile! I'm not a Powershell guru but was hoping someone out there has a firmer grasp and can help point me in the right direction of the commands to help break it down a bit more. Thanks in advance! 

I'm wanting to setup alerts for our printers so that when the printer encounters an error, it will send an alert to an email address. Currently we have What's Up Standard, and it looks like you can do this in What's Up Premium. Is there a way that i can use What's Up Standard, or any other tool, to set this up so that when PrinterX is low on Cyan it will send an alert to helpdesk@company.com? Thanks for any help you can give! 

We have a few hundred users and about 40-50 of them need Java for one reason or another. The problem we run into (as have many others online apparently) is that Java seems to want to update all the time. How this differs is that most people online seem to all want to disable automatic updates. I was curious if you could set it to automatically update without prompting the user? Personally I'd not want that because in the past updating Java to the latest and greatest has caused issues with ASDM for me, and this may be the case with other end users' programs as well (or may not). I'm just trying to weigh my options and figure out if this is possible as one less pop-up prompting them to update (when they can't without admin rights) would be great. And, I don't like the idea of ignoring potential security risks, I'd rather update things as they need to be updated. Thanks in advance for your thoughts. 

I'm working on the well known problem of MDT not wanting to automatically continue because of a legal disclaimer prompt at login. Our disclaimer is set at the domain policy, so I've created a new OU for staging, then blocked inheritance so it doesn't get the GPO. I have MDT set to place the newly built machine in that OU. All of that is fine, the problem is, the machine that I used as my capture machine had the disclaimer locally cached from already being on the network and even being in the proper OU the disclaimer is still there. So I've added a couple lines in MDT to go in and do the following: 

I'm slowly but surely perfecting a new user script. As it is, my script will do everything to add a new user to our domain, except one thing. We have an in-house program, webpage front end that connects to a SQL database. Typically I go to the webpage and open up a current user for reference, then add the new user with the same criteria (except name, email and username) as the current user. I was thinking it would be nice to add that into the script so that everything is in one location. And, I figured it would be easier to add the new user through the backend than through the webpage front-end (using PowerShell anyway). I don't actually have much SQL experience but I figured this would be a good time to learn some basic commands while learning PowerShell. So in summation, I'd like the script to go to the SQL server, look for the user I tell it (I already have a variable for current user for something else), create a new user just like that user with the exception of his/her name/email address/login name. There are a handful of fields that would be the same; department, groups, etc. Thanks for any pointers you can give! 

I'm currently running a Windows 2008 R2 print server. Everything seems to work fine, except that i can't seem to cancel jobs stuck in the queue. One of our helpdesk asked me to give them rights to do this, and upon inspection, I couldn't cancel the job either (although I'm sure I could bounce the spooler which would have the same effect). It seems simple enough when I look online-- go to the print server, open up printer management, right click the server, properties, security and add the person or group you want to have rights. I've tried adding our helpdesk there as a group, individually, even adding myself and giving myself full rights. Every option gives me the same result. When I click "Cancel" or "Cancel All Docuements" I get the following error: Authentication Failed The error indicates that the action you chose requires a higher privilege than what you have with your account. Please contact your system administrator to verify that you have the privilege on the requested action. As far as I can tell adding the person or group where I was should fix it, but nothing seems to be working when I try it. I've even tried giving a user full admin rights on that server, putting them in the administrator group...same results. Anyone have any idea why I'm getting this and how to make it work? Thank you in advance! Don 

Currently we have VPN setup on an ASA 5510. I have it set to use NPS for RADIUS authentication, but I've never really configured much as far as accounting. I'm wanting to set this up to be able to tell more of what people are doing/accessing when they are telecommuting. I just have it set up pretty basic right now: