Try inserting a one-celled table inside that cell and insert the picture in that table, so you have a picture inside the new one-celled table. 

When I do not create a keyboard event (i.e. pressing or releasing a key) for more than 5 seconds, the numlock and other LEDs on my keyboard go off. When I'm holding a key for more than 5 seconds and the keyboard 'shuts down', I also hear the device disconnected sound in Windows 8.1. I've never had this until I got this new keyboard, a "microsoft wired keyboard 200". My USB mouse still seems to work properly even when the keyboard shuts down. It's really annoying because I can't hold any key (including Shift or Backspace) for more than a few seconds and I constantly see the LEDs flashing. When I press or release a button, the keyboard will go on instantly again, but when it's done by releasing a key, the "release event" will not be sent to the PC, causing the key to be "stuck" while it actually isn't pressed. This is solved by pressing it again. Does anyone know a solution for this problem? 

Add the file path (the destination, ?) to an exception for your antivirus software. This will probably give you permission to copy the file to that location again. I think Norton calls them Exclusions. Look for that in the Settings window. (Rebooting / relogging after you do so might help) 

That's normal. The raw capacity of a (perfect) 1 terabyte disk is roughly 931 GiB, less with the overhead of partitioning and the presence of a filesystem which is roughly 4% in your situation. 

From what I've been able to gather from the links below, the two memory modules you mention in your question should be compatible. 

WebExtensions cannot modify or pages, so the behavior you mention cannot be changed. This is the only extensions API supported by both Firefox and Chrome since the former has dropped support for XUL extensions. Extensions can inject content scripts into tabs that match URL patterns or specific tabs via . Both methods take a "match pattern" for the target page that starts with which must be , , , or (for Firefox), so any access to or URLs is impossible. The CSS injection API uses the match pattern as well and cannot be used to modify protected pages. Extensions can also have background scripts that don't have access to web pages and must modify them indirectly through content scripts, so they fall under the same restrictions. Since the source code of both Firefox and Chromium is available, you can certainly make the changes necessary to grant extensions extra permissions, but there isn't something as simple as a compile-time switch. Keyboard shortcuts registered through a background script are effective on all pages, but the API necessary for truly arbitrary key combinations does not exist at this time. If you are styling Firefox, you might be able to affect pages with modifications. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Is it possible to download (preferably: one-way sync, so also delete) a network folder, for instance to a local folder like if available, otherwise leave it the same. I want to listen to my music on my laptop, which is stored on the NAS, while I'm at home. But when I'm not home, I still want the most recent music library with me. Is there any way of achieving this in Windows 8.1? The NAS (server, rather) is running Ubuntu Server 12.04, but I'm guessing that doesn't matter.. Thanks in advance! 

If your virus scan doesn't pick it up as a virus, it doesn't mean it isn't dangerous. If you're wondering what the program can do, try searching the program name () on Google. This page says it's not a harmful program and can be deleted through the software add/remove option in the Control Panel: $URL$ This page also refers to it as safe, although it's only found on one computer. They also refer to the same distributor: $URL$ I would say it's an outdated piece of software. If you can find the software in the Control Panel option under 'Logo Business Solutions company' and you do not use it, I'd suggest you remove it. If you're unsure if you can remove it, try renaming the file under or moving it to another location. If your software and computer keep working fine, you can remove the program from your computer. 

Note If you want the built-in webcam to be disabled as soon as possible, connect the external one before logging in. 

If the required keys don't exist, that means there are no user-installed programs. Unload the registry hive: 

Delete the shortcut. Open a command prompt window, and type the following to navigate to the folder: 

Hide and prevent access to any drive but C: from My Computer Back to the command prompt, type or paste the following commands. Make sure to replace all with the actual account name, then press Enter each time. 

The program was installed on 2014/01/02 at 22:02 by selecting the Everyone option during setup (Install for anyone who uses this computer). Choosing Just me would install those .exe files in instead. Additional information The hexadecimal-named file is a startup stub just an icon file with a different extension and won't run manually because apparently it's not meant so because it's not an executable file at all. Here's an excerpt of the file content: 

Formatting through the command line When formatting via the graphical interface, Windows will try to detect and list only the file systems which are best suited for the selected disk or partition. By using a command prompt you can override the default behavior, and use just any file system. 

I'm trying to get a custom boot logo to work, but I have to place it on the HP_Tools partition. I cannot see this partition, neither from Windows' partition manager and from EaseUS Partition Master. How do I get my custom boot logo to work? I already know the requirements for the image: 

Is it possible to delay the default shutdown from Windows? I installed BitTorrent Sync and I want to give it 30 minutes to finish syncing when I go away from my computer and then shut down. I know this is possible using 

How do I make sure the ClearType settings apply? edit I also tried to run as administrator with elevated privileges, but that doesn't work either. 

I'm having a problem where my ClearType settings made with the built-in ClearType Tuner won't apply to any other applications, or even the operating system. I've set my Cleartype so that the text is anti-aliased but monochrome: 

The active partition is the partition which the system will use to boot from. In your case, you've changed it so that the required bootmgr could not be loaded. You need to set the partition named 'Reserved by system' to active. This partition usually has no letter assigned to it. You can set this with a bootable live USB running a partitioning program. Below I've placed a link which describes how to make such a live USB running easeUS: $URL$ After you do this, everything should work again. 

I'd just jump straight to wheezy, but if you want to run updates for squeeze beforehand you can change your to point to . 

I'll address the two ways the other answer mentions as routes an extension can leverage to escape the confinement of a browser profile and access other parts of the filesystem, plus an extra. The first is through the WebExtension permission, the second through triggering a file dialog, and the third is through the API. None are automatic (background or otherwise) and all require the user to explicitly agree to such access. 1) A WebExtension using the permission cannot pull in the privileged native application on its own. Until the user explicitly decides to install the native application, the WebExtension is trapped within the browser profile it was installed in. From the other answer, "[i]f any ... extensio[n] require[s] administrator access to install" then said software comprises more than just a pure Chrome extension, e.g., the extension taps into a standalone client installed outside of Chrome, and by installing the external client (outside of Chrome) one might as well have installed a system-wide standalone keylogger binary that affects much more than just the browser. Game over, but the user's fault, since s/he has overridden the security provided by the browser. 2) From the other answer: "I was ... able to launch a portable copy of Firefox in which I installed an sqlite browser ... and browse to my old profile and see my history." File dialogs require explicit user interaction, hence this is not a security bug. If the user explicitly loads files into the browser profile for the extension to manipulate, then the user has expressed his/her agreement to having their data shared with the extension. Otherwise, the extension can do nothing but hope for the user to select a file in the Open File dialog, which the user (recalling the profile is meant to trap potentially untrustworthy extensions) can simply close. 3) The API on Chrome allows read-only access to the filesystem via the file:// protocol. However, "a user must explicitly permit this behavior for a given extension through the Chrome preferences pane in chrome://extensions" and as of early 2017 only 55 extensions on the CWS ask for it. (Source: Mozilla Wiki) Not only is the likelihood of encountering an extension abusing this privilege to snoop into the filesystem highly unlikely, but the privilege also requires that the user manually grants it to a browser extension. 

Try to unplug all your USB devices, repeating the steps you took to create the sound. Now one by one plug them back in and keep checking if that device caused the problem. Another way might be to take a look at the 'safely remove hardware' menu via the tray icon before and after the sound. 

But when I finish this setup and I go back to Windows (even after reboot), the settings remain the same. Even in Windows Explorer: 

Right click on the windows audio icon, and open Playback Devices. If supported, your HDMI audio should show up there somewhere.. Select it and set it to default. You may need to relog to Windows for it to work but it should work. 

I cannot seem to remove the number 7,8 nor drag the allocated partition (E:) to the beginning of the file. I already tried making the unallocated space bigger by shrinking the partition, but once I added it back to the partition, the 7,8MB remained unallocated. 

H.264's being upgraded to H.265. This would allow even greater compression. However, I think that 150/200MB per minute is way too much. If you were to upload a video to YouTube in 720p, YouTube would compress it to about 10 to 15MB/s. Even though YouTube has some experts who tweak their compression so that it would cost them less bandwidth, you should be able to achieve similar quality with 20MB/s and not 200MB/s. One simple way to convert video's to such a low bit rate but still high quality, would be to upload them to YouTube (and save as a private video). It would also make it easier to share it with your friends. Drawback is that you might experience long upload times... 

Open the Task Scheduler () and click Action > Create Task. Name it . While in the General tab, click Change User or Group. Type in the textbox, click Check Names, and then click OK. Enable the Run with highest privileges option. Change the Configure for value to Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2. Select the Triggers tab, and click New. Change the Begin the task to At log on, then press OK. Switch to the Actions tab, and click New. Type in the Program/script textbox, replacing it with the actual file path. Type in the Add arguments textbox, replacing the device IDs with the proper values. Click the Conditions tab and uncheck Start the task only if the computer is on AC power option. Select the Settings tab, and uncheck both the Allow task to be run on demand and Stop the task if it runs longer than fields. Enable the Run task as soon as possible after a scheduled start is missed option. Leave all other settings to default values and press OK. 

Copy all the data from the original folder to the new one. Replace with the letter of system drive you got in step 2, and then verify that all files were copied successfully. 

Restart Windows, and check whether you're still getting the same events. To restore the policy backup you created earlier, run this command: 

VMware documentation mentions a "CPUID Mask", but I don't know how configurable that is. If you're willing to experiment with other VMMs, QEMU can enable and disable CPUID flags at the command line. For example, leads to a virtual CPU with the features of an n270 but with the fpu flag disabled. There's a full list of supported CPU models and CPUID flags at . 

Using separate browser profiles to isolate potentially dangerous extensions is more than good enough, as separate OS-level user accounts is overkill, unless one is defending against zero-day browser exploits that completely trash Chrome's WebExtension API permission model, in which case VM-level protections are in order. If we're playing with software that leverages exploits, then OS-level user accounts provide insufficient protection as we are now toying with malware. Chrome Apps are an entirely different kettle of fish since they enjoy more permissions than standard Chrome extensions, but they are a deprecated technology and, more importantly, outside the scope of the OP's question since it asks about Chrome extensions. Thus, Chrome Apps are not covered in this answer. In conclusion, a Chrome extension cannot jump across browser profiles unless 1) the user has manually installed a standalone executable external to Chrome, in which case all bets are off 2) the user selects a file in a file open dialog generated by an extension, in which case the user has explicitly granted the extension permission for arbitrary file access 3) the user manually ticks a box in chrome://extensions that extensions cannot themselves modify. 

Windows stores the EDID in the registry after querying the monitor. The problem is the system thinks you have a 15.2" monitor with a maximum supported resolution of 1024x768 pixels and 68 Hz refresh rate. This is just plain wrong, and the monitor is to blame here. Conclusion The monitor won't report the correct information, so we have to manually fix that. There are a few ways to do it, and I'll briefly describe them referring you to the links below for additional information. It's better to have more options just in case something doesn't work properly or isn't applicable. Intel Graphics Control Panel While updating the old, bare-bone graphic driver which comes with Windows you'll also get the Intel Graphics Control Panel (). Among other things, it can be used to change the screen resolution. Custom resolution Some (but not all) Intel graphic cards can support up to five extra Detailed Timing Descriptors (DTDs) through custom registry entries named which can be found in . Each DTD value includes information such as screen resolution, refresh rates, and so on. The value controls the amount of DTD supported. When it's set to , the feature is disabled. The DTD is actually a section of the full EDID, and it's just as cryptic. In order to easily change the data you can use DTDCalculator. Correcting the EDID