I think adding to your argument list will help. To verify this you could add to the arguments (without ). If I understood you correctly, this would show the -flag in every line : 

It is bash compatible. Without it works in sh too. Its not too beautiful, but working ;) is only set by trustworthy users, so it will be fine 

I think not. The window just elevates the rights of the explorer. The same way you can run notepad with elevated rights and browse straight into the folders. Afaik you need to remove the permission to elevate the own rights to "disable" the message you. But the result is not an administrator account anymore ;) 

Maybe AutoIt can help you. It provides a scripting language and brings some functions to interact with other processes as a user would do 

you could use key based authorization for the ssh connection and allow to start svnadmin (or a wrapper script) without password 

I added a new Network to a Debian 6.0.1 x86_64 Linux 2.6.32-5-amd64 Server with this configuration in the interfaces: 

After this add to the command (keep ) and you will receive a -flag on every line. In the next run the list will only contain the new files. This is my example run: 

I am managing some virtual desktops running Windows 7 Enterprise SP1 x64. When running any Java applications (tested on 7u13, 7u21 and 7u25) the windows are getting squeezed to the left. 

I am creating a debian package. This will have to alter to switch from to . Of course I can alter the line with an in the postinst. Is this the best way to do it or is there any debianish way to do it? Thanks in advance 

What you need should be described in in the section Priorities. Another way is described in the Frontend section (noninteractive) 

This works because windows uses its local user database when domain = hostname. Maybe (notice the dot) also works. The dot as Domain means "lookup your own database", too. 

You should "create" another network like e.g. 192.168. 0.0/24 and put your server in this network. Enable ip_forward if needed. 

The other interfaces are classical, static declarations. bridge-utils is installed but no br-device is enabled. After ifup: 

You could create binstubs. using these the init-script should be like any other. thin just needs --damonize as parameter if you do not specify it in your thin.yaml. With thin generates an init-script for you 

Maybe you have a look at $URL$ this is a full backup solution with GnuPG encryption of the data but maybe it is oversized for your needs 

If you really want a Raid5 of your 4 drives (see comments above) you should be able to set the spare-device count to 0 with . 

You could put your configuration in and only let them execute when you log in. To make this possible you could pass an environment variable through ssh. modifications 

You have to reduce the size of /home in 2 steps: reduce size of filesystem, reduce size of logical volume. This cannot be done online, so be sure to unmount /home before (i'm assuming you use some ext filesystem): See this example: 

Your symlinks are pointing absolute to /home/dave/... On server side you have the directory structure. on client side the symlink points to exactly the same path. so there are 3 possible ways: The best solution is to always use relative symlinks where possible. If the directory with the symlink contains is e.g. then the symlink target path should be . If it is in it could be . But sometimes this is not possible or simply not wanted. The second solution is to mount from server into on client side. Also, this is sometimes unwanted. The third solution is, to create a symlink on both sides and make all links relative to it. Do this by creating a symlink in e.g. named which links on serverside to and on client side to . Now change all symlinks on the server from to . The best solution in my opinion is the first, then the second and the last is a fallback which complicated the work for the user and may lead to faulty links in the future 

The redirection source page will not load without warning from ssl unless you have a certificate for the domain. This is by design. To get rid of the additional ip address you could get a SAN certificate. 

Is is possible to build a lens which produces the given tree by using the mailman commands and ? Thanks, krissi 

Any other thoughts? Maybe someone has already solved this scenario? What would you recommend? Thanks in advance 

Use a partition. One day, somebody needs a USB drive fast, take one from a box and think it is empty because there is not even a partition created and all your data is lost.. There will always be an OS which cannot handle filesystems without partitions on hard drives Even if the chance of this is small, the price is even smaller ;) 

I am building a iptables script for a router to block all traffic from and to the machines behind, except a small set of hosts/ports (RDP incoming, DNS outgoing, ...). HTTP and HTTPS is blocked. 

Unfortunately with HTTP/S blocked the Windows Updates are failing. I want the Updates to be working and the surfing to be blocked. These are my thoughts: 

will run ``svnadmin dump myrepos> dumpfile` part will not have the rights of root. You could write a script, put the command in it and sudo the whole script or construct a one-liner like 

You might want to have a look at aide. It does exactly what you are describing and brings some more features. 

outbound rules are matching connections from your server to another. So if you want to browse the internet (from your server) you need to open at least 80/tcp outbound. 

This document describes a high capacity email system. You could check if it matches your needs or gives you some hints $URL$ 

The black area is the whole window. I am able to e.g. click the buttons when I hit the correct position in the black area. This happens when using rdesktop 1.7.1, FreeRDP 1.0.1 and the client which is used by our Linux based thin clients (unsure which exactly, but I guess rdesktop, too). The native Windows 7 mstsc.exe does not show this behaviour. show this behaviour, too. The problem arises when the connection uses 16 bit color depth. Unfortunately our (pretty old) thin clients work not so well when using 32bit color. Any Ideas what causes this behaviour and how to solve it? 

I want to create an augeas lens to modify mailman lists. The lists are stored in a binary file which can be exported to a plaintext file using and reimported by replacing by . The goal is to build an augeas tree like this: 

1: Yes, you can over commit. See 2,3 for details 2: If the physical memory gets full, the ESX(i) starts its , and features. When the memory gets full while these features are used the Host will swap. Memory Ballooning When an administrator installs VMware Tools, the memctl driver (a.k.a. ballooning driver) is installed in the guest OS. This driver creates a bubble or “balloon” of memory consumed inside the guest so the OS sees it as being used by an application. The hypervisor then takes the physical RAM freed up by inflating this balloon and allocates it to other VMs that require it. Memory ballooning introduces a small amount of processing overhead, and if it forces a guest OS to begin paging to disk, this can significantly slow down the application(s) on the VM. If the VM isn’t using the memory, then ballooning itself isn’t a serious performance issue, but it is an indication that physical memory on the host is becoming scarce. One of the biggest advantages of memory ballooning over other methods for handling memory over-commitment is that the memory ballooning driver allows the guest operating system to choose which pages are relinquished to the hypervisor for other VMs. This way, pages which aren’t in active use can be safely freed up, causing almost no performance impact from the guest’s perspective. Transparent Page Sharing Transparent page sharing is the “de-duplication” of memory that permits identical virtual memory pages to be collapsed into a single page within the host’s physical RAM, thereby freeing up memory for other uses. For example, if multiple virtual machines on a host are all running the same operating system and application, the hypervisor will compare pages of memory through hashing to locate identical pages that can be freed up through their consolidation. Ballooning and transparent page sharing work together to ensure that over-committed memory doesn't cause performance issues for the applications in the guest virtual machines. Memory compression Memory compression and disk swapping by the hypervisor are the last-ditch efforts by ESX/ESXi to keep the hypervisor from crashing when memory resources on the host are stretched to the breaking point. The compression of memory pages by the hypervisor also causes additional processing overhead; however, this overhead is small in comparison to the slow-down caused by swapping pages out to a storage device. Users of vSphere 4.1 and above will be able to take advantage of this feature to reduce the amount of swapping taking place when physical memory resources are close to being exhausted. Stolen from VM Memory (vRAM) Sizing Considerations 3: If you power off, you cannot use it anymore, so no statistics are recorded, etc. I do not know what happens to HA and stuff. I would not switch it off. If the VM is idling, ESX will know and handle it. Please notice, the memory features listed are used when needed (see description), so the memory will increase less the more memory used. Try to dramatically waste the memory to see how your vCenter VM scales down. I dont think it will waste too much memory on idle 4: See the linked White Paper for information how to get the answer 

Of course I can add some up-lines to the interfaces file to fix the routes. I'm just wondering if I am missing something. Maybe some cache to flush, a typo I am missing since hours, or just a misunderstanding. Thanks in advance 

I created a few sieve (dovecot implementation) filter scripts and want to test them using sieve-test. All scripts which are using global includes are failing with the following message 

You need to log in as root, because you will not be able to use sudo until you fixed it. If you have set a root password, type and go ahead. If not, you need some kind of rescue system or the possibility to change the kernel parameters in grub. Are you able to boot into a rescue system? Then mount your root filesystem somewhere and change the permissions of the file to 0440. Are you able to change the kernel options? then add to it and boot. When the prompt appears, change your password like this: