At first glance I thought you weren't running the uninstallers with an administrative account, but it turns out Microsoft is blocking you. If you follow this link, state that you must be using a Microsoft account on your Windows machine to install from the MS Store. If you already are using one, then you may also need to verify your MS account under the Security and Maintenance tab in the control panel. If you're using a local account instead of a MS account, (which I recommend without hesitation), then I would suggest you create a new account on your PC and give it administrative rights. After you've finished installing/uninstalling the software that you want, remove the administrative rights and disable the account. Accounts like that are security flaws in my opinion. Edit: They may have made an update so that the password storage uses salted hashes, which ease only some of my problems with a live account. I'm trying to do a password recovery now to test and see if you can still gain access using access to the PC and the live account. Give me a few days, my Windows 10 VM for some reason does not like the idea of adding a new user for some reason. 

If you got that setup to work properly, you'd have a very insecure network as all of the computers would have to be directly linked to the internet to work, (public IPs). However that might get costly as the costs for public IPs can get expensive. The simple solution here would be to just go and buy a router and replace the one you don't want. You could also potentially leave out the first switch in your equation if it's only bridging the connection between the router and the rack switch. Cable Modem -> New Router -> CAT 5e Server Rack -> Wall Ethernet Port -> Computers A somewhat decent router for basic usage can be from $100-$200 online depending on what all you want. If it's in a shared location, then you'll probably just want one that has a single WAN port as well as a single LAN. That's really not a good option though as moving the router into your office space would be better. The cable that goes from the closet to your space, (if it's a standard LAN cable) is the one that you should plug directly into the modem and then have your router at the other end. This will give you more control to as the routers tend to lock up more than modems in my personal experience. 

Here's my situation, I have a NAS that I use as a backup server, as well as another Linux machine that had a full backup as well. The NAS has three 2TB drives, so I decided to try BTRFS with RAID5 to see how well that was working. I mirrored both and everything was well. Later I decided to upgrade the OS on the second machine, so I deleted the folder with the second backup, (the data is still potentially there). Thinking I had plenty of time with the NAS backup in place, I didn't get around to making the second backup, (this happened within the last 2 weeks). Now my NAS has a bad hard drive, which I replaced already, and I can't get the BTRFS system to mount up. I started reading this website and ran the option, which seemed like a good idea at the time, but later in the thread it's pointed out that it is not. So now I'm at a full stop so I don't damage anything further. states that BTRFS can't mount the device because a replace operation is ongoing, but says that it was never started. My questions: 1) Is it still possible to recover and backup my BTRFS drive? 2) If so, what information do I need to provide to get this underway? 3) If not, are there any tools available right now that can restore my other backup? I think I formatted the drive from ext4 to xfs. Thanks in advance. Edit: I forgot to mention that I did start the replace initially by using the information here. And that it had to be restarted due to a power failure. Edit 2: Would it be possible to have the RAID5 downgrade from 3 drives to just 2 without the other drive in there? Edit 3: Getting a kernel bug when I let the system just sit there: 

Yes and no. While there are potential issues for traffic interference between the pairs, if you're not having any issues then it's not really an issue. If you were in a large building with massive amounts of cables and needed the most speed from each cable, then yes it would probably be an issue. LAN cables are meant to be "straight through" meaning that each wire must be on the same pin on one side as it is the other. The reason they have a specific pattern is due to the way that the cables are twisted together to reduce cross-talk traffic between the wires. This is something only really noticeable when you require the fastest possible traffic or have large amounts of other LAN cables nearby. Since your internet is working for you, there is no need to worry about the order of the wires. 

Really, if you just add another router and connect the Ethernet cable to its Internet port, then it would allow the speakers to run. If that doesn't seem viable to you then many SBC (Single-Board Computer) type systems can probably fill you request fairly well. Raspberry Pi, Arduino, Olimex, as well as many others would be good candidates so long as they have both a LAN port and WiFi capabilities. Dual or even Single WiFi might work, but you'd have to do more of a set up to get it to work right, (one WiFi for your University connection, one for your speakers). Spotify runs on Linux, and many of the SBC systems come with some form of Linux, so you should be set there. I don't know what system requirements are needed for Spotify on Linux, but I should think that at lest 512M-1G should suite your needs, (I'd lean towards the 1G-2G systems just to be safe). Once you set up the OS, you can install OpenSSH to be able to remotely access the system, which means you won't need to have a monitor, keyboard, or mouse plugged into it to use it. 

It's possible that it's a diagnostic utility of some sort that the manufacturer put on the hard drive as a convenience. Another possibility is that it is used as an addition to the system restore partition for extras such as drivers or junkware that the manufacturer wants to have pre-installed when you restore the OS. Since it's an unknown partition, you can attempt to boot a Linux LiveCD and have gparted see if it can tell what type of partition it is. If not, Clonezilla has an option to do byte-for-byte clones that can ensure that it will remain intact should you wish to restore the disk to its original state. I added that since you posted a question about cloning just a short while ago. 

For the most part, yes. You can simply have it scan all ports on the system and enable version numbers. 

EDIT: I missed a bit of your question, so here's some more. You can either set all of the VMs to use bridged mode on the LAN and have them access pfSense that way, (not recommended since it will use up a lot of resources). Or you can add a third adapter on the pfSense VM that is set to Internal Network, and set your VMs to use Internal Network as well. Using Internal Network removes the need for the hardware NIC to be accessed and all networking access will be virtualized, which should be faster since it's not waiting on hardware. Have pfSense route all of the traffic from the LAN and Internal Network to each other if you want the LAN and VMs to access each other. 

One reason this exists is for programs that copy, backup, or archive files. Many of the programs that I've used in the past will create temporary files in the location where they're copying data to. They set the timestamps to be 0, which is the start of the Epoch and after the program completes its task, then it updates the time on the file to the time of the original file, NOT the current time, (backups should be exact replicas). If the program crashes or is interrupted for some reason, then it could see that the timestamp on the file(s) are in the past, or they may specifically look for that timestamp as it's very unlikely that there are any files with that specific timestamp. After they see that timestamp, the begin to copy that file again, or resume the previous copy if they're able/configured that way. 

If it only happens after rebooting from Ubuntu, then it's just the remains of what was in the video card's memory being displayed in Ubuntu before Windows boots up. There's no real point in clearing out the video RAM when the OS is starting because everything is going to be overwritten when the desktop is displayed. Clearing out the RAM would take extra time, and slow startup times can make some people impatient. When the computer first boots up, everything should, (theoretically), be cleared out already, which is why you only see black screens when starting the OS. If you restart the OS and load another one, there could still be things in the video RAM, and you might see portions of it. The reason it looks like junk is that the OSs are using different areas, sizes, and image formats for their display areas. 

TL;DR Your system will be fine if you leave it on all the time. Okay, I'm a system administrator and used to do field IT work. Some of the other answers seem to be a bit misinformed. I personally leave my work laptop on 24/7 and it's not a server. I also have a custom gaming rig at home that I leave on all day as well, it's current up time is 45 days. While systems will build up dust on the fans the longer you leave them on, the CPU and certain other parts are designed to slow themselves down to avoid overheating. Pets, smoking, dusty roads, and the like can increase the likely hood of dust build up. If you notice a drop in performance, a good cleaning, (OUTSIDE of your house), might help it out. Use a can of compressed air and avoid touching the electronic parts inside of the computer. As for being on the net 24/7, that all depends. If you're on a website that refreshes itself and the ads that are displayed, then it is possible to get an infection. Closing your browsers can keep this from happening. Most of the malware I've had to remove from systems come from from the ads on websites. Using either Firefox or Chrome with Java disabled and Flashblock can reduce your chances of getting malware greatly. Internet Explorer and Edge are both jokes and I recommend you avoid them like the plague they are. One final note about being on the internet, if you are not using a router, and you're directly on the internet, then you are at risk. If your modem from your ISP only has one network cable port coming out of it and it is going directly into your computer, that probably means that you're not behind router and you're most likely exposed. While yes your computer probably does have a firewall, it's probably not going to be as good as a router's, (especially if you're only using the Windows Firewall). If you can plug your network cable into one of many ports on your modem, then you're probably fine. As for the battery in your laptop, do NOT remove the power when the battery is fully charged. Your laptop is most likely smart enough to know when the battery is charged and it will stop charging the battery once it's full. The battery is like your phone's battery, the more you completely drain it, the faster it will wear out. If you have an external battery, such as a UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply), then you can remove the laptops battery altogether, which will help with the heat. When looking at the answers about wear and tear, most of the components in PCs are like light bulbs. Turning them on and off regularly will wear them out faster than constantly leaving them on. A good number of the parts in your PC will get to at least 140°F/60°C during normal use, (CPU, GPU, certain bridge components, etc.). This is why cooling is so important. After shutting down the system they will naturally cool back down, so it's like bending a paper clip back and forth until it breaks. Capacitors are one of the bigger exceptions to this. They can wear out just by sitting there since they usually have a liquid inside of them that can leak or evaporate out. 

Looks like there's a bug in VirtualBox. I just tried what you're doing on my system and it looks like after it boots from the Optical, it will not boot from that drive again until the VM is completely halted, even if the optical drive is the only storage the VM has. I'm not sure what you're trying to do, but from the looks of it, you could always install the OS onto another hard drive. After you do that, install the guest additions and shut down the VM completely. Next, make the hard drive Immutable in the media manager. Each time you shutdown and power up the VM, all changes to the hard drive image will be discarded and it will be like new each time. Edit: I just launched the VM with a Mint ISO, and vdi. After the live OS booted, I did a to copy everything from the ISO to the vdi and rebooted. Everything seems to be like it's a Live CD, and it reboots without an issue. Still might want to make the hard drive Immutable though, just in case. 

There should be an option to start the VMs in Headless mode. Headless mode basically runs the VM like you would normally, but doesn't show the screen or GUI of the VM. In version 5 of Virtualbox, there should be an arrow pointing down next to the button to start VMs. If you click on it, you can start the VM in headless mode. If you want to use the command line to start your VMs in headless mode you can use this. 

If you don't have another computer to run DBAN on, then what you probably want is Eraser to wipe your hard drive. Eraser is a Windows program that can do several forms of wiping for you, (quick and fast to DOD clearance grade and more). You'll need to format the drive as something Windows can understand, like you've done with the shared drive. Then have Eraser wipe the disk. Be careful though, shredding is a one-way trip that is not usually recoverable in a cheap or easy manner. You can find Eraser here. 

From what I've read on the internet, it should be possible. But do keep in mind that anyone else that uses a PLA system like you will be able to also share your landlord's internet the same way. A PLA system basically shares the wiring that used to power the apartment complex, and if there are a bunch of others using PLA systems, then your speeds might still be very bad. After you install the powerline adapters, make sure you use the builtin encryption to keep others from gaining access to your network, there's a reason it exists. Edit: I found some good information here: 

Yes, there can be further issues with the networking that ping would not be able to detect. Ping is just a tool that normally tells the user "Yes this device can communicate with the other device and it takes this long to do it." or "The other device did not respond to my requests in the amount of time that was allotted." Ping isn't really designed for much more than that. 

Yes it's perfectly safe. So long as the rest of the framework for holding in the addon cards is in tact, then you're fine. Those metal strips are there to keep big things out of the system, like items inserted by children, or larger critters. They can also reduce the inflow/outflow of air when they're blocking the slot; however this only really matters to hardcore gaming/workhorse machines. 

Type the password into Notepad, then copy the password and paste it into WinZip, if it can extract the data then try and do the same for 7-zip and the Windows builtin. If it works for WinZip, but not for the other two, then your client probably compressed the file with a paid version of WinZip and that version is using proprietary encryption that the others can't access.