I agree with @Gnoupi's comment above, I wouldn't take the space usage quoted in Add/Remove Programs as being anywhere near close. For this I would use something like Spacemonger, WinDirStat or Treesize to quickly visualise the usage. 

So far I've been unable find a way of automatically accepting the EULA (short of using WSUS). I then considered how to fool Windows into thinking the latest version of the Malicious Software Removal Tool (MRT) is already installed. I discovered this can be done by tweaking the MRT's Version key in the registry, so that it has the latest month's GUID. I got the latest month's GUID from the following Microsoft page (Q2 under the FAQ heading): 

I suspect any unpatched software could be a potential threat, but would be interested to know how bad the above situation is (relative to a fully-patched system). 

I updated the registry for this month (March 2010) and now Windows won't nag until next month when I can repeat this process again: 

I regularly compress server/text logs (60MB+) using these options and they usually come out at 1-2% of the original size. 

With most applications I use (for example: Textpad, Paint.NET), if I have an document open and then go to open another, the file selector will naturally default to the directory where the already open document resides. Word 2007 and Excel 2007 don't do this. I can't seem to find anything obvious in their options to achieve this. Is there anyway of getting them to do this? 

Is there a tool to advise how much wear the drive has seen? (I've just acquired one and don't know it's history.) 

By the sounds of it, you may not be able to fix the drive. I recommend running this and if it fails take the opportunity to get a brand new, quicker disk: MHDD I'd download a CD ISO of it from here. Good Luck! 

I recently decided to see what life is like without Kaspersky Internet Security and have installed MSE. I'm concerned about receiving malware via SPAM etc. Does MSE scan emails and/or attachments? Is there anything else I can do (that is free) to minimise malware grief? 

An alternative to Direct Folders is Folder Guide which is very good - it's simple to use and I haven't had any trouble with it. It uses about 7MB on my system. Simply right-click in Explorer or a fileselector and up it pops. 

I have Windows 2000 USB drivers for my PSION WaveFinder DAB radio receiver but cannot find any for XP. Are Windows 2000 drivers suitable for XP? If so, how do I go about using them? EDIT: Are there any differences/incompatibilities in 2000/XP driver models? 

ConsoleZ is a fork of Console2. To all intents and purposes looks about the same albeit better rendered. I've just come across it and it seems pretty good (given only 15 minutes use). Most importantly, it does what you want: Clone in new tab. 

Unable to restart or shutdown remote Windows XP using psshutdown or psexec/shutdown. I tried , but this failed. Pulling the power isn't an option as no one at machine to do this. I'm still able to run tasklist and taskkill on the remote machine. Is it possible to trigger a fairly safe shutdown by killing processes? 

I've just happened upon the command line tool, Disksum, which seems similar to to diruse, but gives two forms of output: 

Being realistic I want to be able to do most things: install apps, go online, etc. but want to be safe and prevent any unnecessary problems (i.e. reinstalls!) From what I've gathered Microsoft Security Essentials would be a good bet? Also, would you recommend UAC is left as is or to be tweaked to be an optimal gatekeeper? Anything else I need to consider? (In XP, I currently have an anti-virus app - mainly for emails.) Are there any gotchas that Microsoft have left in? 

I've just come across Windows Double Explorer which might be an interim solution. (I'm going to try it tonight.) 

I wonder if this is hardware or software? What about trying the same thing using a Linux Live CD (such as Ubuntu 9.10)? If you get the same thing it must be hardware. Cabling? Bad USB socket(s)? Bad sectors on hard drive? How much free space does the destination drive have? What about checking your hard disk out (e.g. Hard Disk Sentinel)? If not hardware, then something in Windows 7 is amiss. I wonder if you can replicate the issue in Safe Mode? Didn't Vista have a problem with large file copying? Is this a similar issue? (Sorry never used Vista and only just starting out with Windows 7.) 

I would use TextPad for this. I've used it extensively for regular expressions in the past. I'd try finding something like: 

TinyMenu (have all the menus contained in one) and Omnibar (to combine the search and address fields) would maximise space. AutoHideStatusBar would minimise down the bottom too. EDIT: You may also be interested in foxiFrame basic and HideFindBar too. Disclaimer to pedants: these suggestions might not suit you. 

Anyone know of a Windows Explorer add-in to give tabs in Windows 7? Previously a very satisfied user of QTTabBar in XP but this doesn't appear to work. 

From what you describe, there could be a problem with either the router or cable modem or both or even your OS. 

I did use F3 and then Alt-L to bring up All files and folders. After a while it imprints itself into your memory. Nowadays I use Launchy and a proper search tool - Everything. 

I need to print potentially a couple of hundred letters (formatted web pages) which are automatically generated by another system. I'm looking for something that I can point at a directory containing these web pages, set the print options once and then it will print them all without any further intervention or messing about. Preferably free. Windows (XP onwards). 

Whilst I agree with nuking the hard disk, sometimes it's not always practical. Say for instance you have some rare software you can't reinstall because you don't have the original media or keys and can't afford to replace it. This happened recently to a friend. On the other hand, some things just can't be cleaned - I've seen instances of Windows where every single .exe and .dll has been terminally infected. However, I'd say quite a bit of malware and spyware can be recovered from. In which case I'd either put the offending hard disk into another PC to clean or boot from a live CD such as created using BartPE. Another thing with spyware etc., no single product fixes everything so you may have to try several things. You may even have to resort to editing the registry and removing files manually. Google is your friend - somebody somewhere has almost always been in the same position. 

A while back I ripped a load of CDs into individual MP3s for each track. Like a fool I didn't use CDEx (for CDDB lookups) or an equivalent when ripping so there are no ID3 tags and each track is named 'track 1', 'track 2', etc. without any idea of the real track names. However, the tracks are stored in directories named according to album. Does anyone know of a tool to do a CDDB lookup for an album that would allow me to drag and drop the details into each MP3? Or better still, do it all for me? I know I'm asking a lot. PS> I'm using XP. 

My remote machine runs Launchy and UltraVNC (on XP). How can I get the UltraVNC Viewer (on XP or Windows 7) to pass the keypress to activate the Launchy window? I've tried changing the key combo from Ctrl+F1 to Ctrl+Space but that makes no difference. Has anybody got this working via UltraVNC (or any other flavour of VNC)? 

I'm still unable to get a local CSS file working. However, I came across this tip (which works) and is a lot closer to what I was after: 

Have you tried NirSoft's BlueScreenView to understand the exact issue to troubleshoot? Not sure if this would work, but if the old PC is still available, uninstall the drivers, shutdown, and ghost (assuming you're ghosting from a boot CD?). In theory, could XP install the drivers while booting up? Good luck. Perseverance often pays off. 

Every so often Windows Update pushes out an updated version of this tool. Unfortunately, each time the user has to agree to the EULA. Is there any way of configuring the Windows Update service to simply accept this automatically? (I'm not worried about the EULA content). 

The simplest thing you could do (if you only want to compress one file or directory tree per archive) is to put one of the following lines into a batch file in your 7-Zip install directory (say ): For a Zip archive: For a 7-Zip archive: And then call with: 

Would like to be able to find full paths of files in a directory tree that exceed a specific size (say 10MB). Currently aware of Microsoft's Diruse (part of Windows XP Service Pack 2 Support Tools) which does what I want except it only lists directory sizes rather than files. 

Windows XP (at least) appears to store the position and link information for the taskbar icons and toolbars in the following key: 

For instance, will Windows 7 index the XP partition and write on it? Are there any other possible problems with the two versions of Windows or am I worrying about nothing?! 

I'm looking for particular examples of what can and can't be done by a limited account rather than vague generalisations. For example, run batch files/scripts but what commands can't be used? What areas of the registry can be touched (if any)? What directories are off-limits by default (if any)? 

If you can use .7z format rather than just .zip, I would simply use PPMD with the following options and leave everything else as set by the Compression Level: 

I've just looked through Freemind's config files: auto.properties and user.properties (usually in c:\documents and settings\.freemind) and can't see any relevant options. Maybe the best thing you can do is check if the latest version (0.9?) supports this and if not suggest these things to the developer? 

Particularly interested in Windows XP, but all versions of Windows would be useful (if they differ). EDIT: How does Windows/Windows Update know what to apply and what it has already done? Does it compare .dll/.exe versions or something else? 

A quick Google yielded the following File Extensions Resource page for .msp. However, a little more digging suggests you shouldn't delete .msp files. My maxim for this sort of thing is: If you're unsure, don't do it. If you're brave (and understand the potential consequences), rename it and reboot! 

I've used CamStudio in the past. You could install it elsewhere, copy to a USB drive, and use it portably from there? 

Install and run Process Explorer. Select View menu and then Select Columns. In the Select Columns window, select the Process Performance tab. Tick I/O Reads and I/O Writes. Click OK. 

Using UltraVNC 1.0.9.6, pressing the ScrollLock key enables me to successfully send various shortcuts successfully. These include: Windows key + a letter, Alt + F4, etc. 

Ideally, I'd like to hear of an application to show how much bandwidth each application is consuming on my local Windows PC. Alternatively, instructions to use any other application for this purpose. The simpler the better. Something that works for Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7 (if possible). Any ideas? Thanks. 

By chance, happened upon a fantastic MSDN article How Windows Starts Up, Part 2 - Bootloader Phase (- there should be four parts but I can't locate the other two.) There's even one about How Windows Shuts Down. Also, there's Troubleshooting the Startup Phase. 

Amazing, I couldn't find anything back then, but a quick Google search today and I discovered this article which describes how this can sometimes be achieved (and it worked for me): 

Multi-monitor resolution change can be achieved for free by using MultiRes (115K when installed!) from a batch file called from user logon scripts. For example, place the following in a batch file (adding users as necessary and call it something like MultiRes.bat): 

This is after installation (I haven't got the option of nLite or similar tools to slim the install disc). I'll be taking a hard disk image (using Norton Ghost running off a BartPE CD). To be exact, I'm running XP SP3. To clean and minimise the size of the image, I remove any apps I don't need, switch off hibernation and then reboot into BartPE. In BartPE, I then usually delete the pagefile.sys, clear the temp directories, HotFix uninstallers and Windows Updates installers () using CCleaner and finally defrag using MyDefrag to pull everything together. Are there any other specific directories/files (Windows or otherwise) I can safely remove without causing any headaches? 

You could always use two instances of Dropbox Portable each with their own directory. I'm not sure whether you would need to quit one before using the other - you'd have to try it. 

The URL in question has a long user ID string so the interesting part of the URL appears at the end which is always off-screen. Anyone know how I can go about this? 

I seem to have lost the Version tab when I right-click .exe or .dll files and select Properties. I now just get the tabs: General, Compatibility, Security and Summary. Running a fully-patched Windows XP SP3. 

I'm running XP. I can't upgrade to IE8/9 or use another browser due to application compatibility issues. 

How do I revert XP back to a pristine, unsullied USB state so it doesn't know about the USB hub and will (hopefully) install the printer as a printer? 

Firebug 1.7.3 works for me - just upgraded to FF5 with no problems. Whilst I agree with @slhck 's comment, my gut feeling would be that given Mozilla's rapid release intentions, I think changes to FF would be minimal and incremental so maybe add-ons would be less likely to be broken. 

I also find Launchy useful too (which I've got indexing a directory of shortcuts to various things including other directories). 

I'm redirecting a batch file's output into a text file and don't want blank lines between each command. I realise I could post-process with a perl one-liner, but would rather not. Is there an option somewhere to suppress these unnecessary blank lines? 

I discovered RenPhoric about a month ago. Superb. And it's free. No complicated interface and I was quickly able to rename exactly as I wanted. Regular Expression capable. Haven't used anything else since. 

I don't want to be able to drag tabs away from Firefox to produce another instance. I'd like the old behaviour of dragging a tab into explorer to produce a URL shortcut. I've tried the Disable Tab Tearing add-on but it doesn't seem to work for me - dragged tabs still produce a new Firefox instance. 

I suspect that, like many people, I use my work email account (accessed via Outlook 2007) to store information. I generally try to group similar things in folders and sub-folders, but with a multitude of folders this gets very unwieldy. In particular, it can be a bind to locate things using Outlook's tree structure. (As an aside: I've yet to come across a good free search add-on for Outlook.) I realise Outlook is not the best place to store all my information and I'd prefer not to. In an ideal world I'd like to be able to organise all of the information stored in Outlook in a MindMap (my software of choice being Freemind) or Wiki. To maintain an email audit-trail, I've considered saving individual emails as files using a MindMap or Wiki to link them. What do people think of this? (I can't say I relish the thought of the exporting process!) Whatever I do is going to involve some pain (i.e. setting up a Wiki/MindMap) or sticking with what Outlook provides currently. Has anyone been in the same position? Has anyone mass-migrated information from Outlook? If so, what was the best way? Any ideas or alternative proposals? 

Hopefully this image illustrates what I'm after to help view a long log file: . Preferably a text editor, but any suggestions welcome. 

Do you need the extended regexp flag (-r)? With this flag, your regexp is trying to match literal ( and ) rather than store the match.