This is normal and happens quite a few times on a busy SQL Server OLTP system. I am not sure how to put alert from your side on internal flags set by windows. But you have ResourceNotificationHighandLow.exe which can tell you about the notifications. You have to download it. Complete details about it are on This Link 

Before giving information about actual memory distribution it gives information about current status of system. SQL Server 64 bit has theoretically has VAS of around 8 TB this is basically virtual address space. All process which would run on SQL Server would see this much VAS so if system is pointing out available Virtual Memory as almost 8 TB I dont think there is anything to worry about it. This is system pointing to amount of VAS visible to any process running on 64 bit SQL Server instance. Please always use below query to see SQL Server memory utilization because task manager only shows process private bytes and if SQL Server service account has locked pages in memory privilege it would not show correct value. As a fact task manager would not show memory allocated through AWE API 

This is current memory SQL Server has acquired. Few Points 1.If Target server memory is greater than Total server memory there can be memory pressure. Let me put emphasis on word can be ,it is not a sure shot signal.Please refer to this MSDN forum thread where OP had target server memory greater than total server memory but because there were no memory grants pending ,and page life expectancy was high so there was no memory pressure . 

I am adding this answer as it could be helpful and related to Inplace upgarde First you need to check using the link Thomas gave whether inplace upgarde you are doing is supported or not. After you are sure you meet the upgrade matrix you can proceed with two considerations 

NOTE: If you enable page checksum it would not be enabled for entire pages of the databases. There is no process as such which puts this option for all pages. When a certain page would be to disk checksum would then be enabled for that page. So you would have to perform operation like index rebuild to bring as much page as possible in memory. Paul Randal has Myth section related to Checksum please read it. Databases that are created on SQL Server 2005 and 2008 will have page checksums enabled automatically unless user changes the setting in the model database. 

First thing if transaction log is not damaged you should go for tail log backup. That would cause minimal data loss. Then restore would be 

If you want to monitor memory utilized by below is simple and accurate query which would give you memory utilized by SQL Server. Dont refer to task manager for SQL Server memory utilization it wont show you correct value if SQL Server Service account has locked pages in memory privilege. 

Highly unlikely but you should plan for SQL Server 2012 SP4 ASAP. From my past experience I could say that since SQL Server and other applications like SSAS and SSRS are all running on same machine SQL Server might be facing memory pressure and so might be the case for SSAS/RS. I have seen lot of systems like this and it all boils down to memory pressure. You have 32 G of RAM and you have given just 16 G to SQL Server make it to 20 G and see if this help. Adding more memory would definitely help if you can go for it. There can be plethora of reasons why queries are timing out and Troubleshooting SQL Server performance issues can help you to find the root cause of it. 

This is how SQl Server thinks with any other third party tool. If you use any othet third party tool to take backup the VIRTUAL_DEVICE would be the location where you took backup and this would be logged into errorlog. 

For 2nd we have password stored in hash format you can see it from sys.sql_logins. The information about SQl server logins are stored in and each login has SID repective to it. Only SA login has same SID no matter what server it is. That is why when you move database by backup restore mechanism users are moved not logins and you finally have to create logins(if already not there) and map it to users. This is generally called as troubleshooting orpahned users You can use sys.syslogins and sys.server_principal to gain more information about logins. Note that sys.syslogins is a legacy view. If you also want to move your logins you have to take backup of master database and restore it on destination server. And this would be possible only if you have same version and SP on destination machine. 

What this error means This message means SQL Server is installed on your machine but when it is trying to come online it failed. And the reason for the failure would be located at SQL Server errorlog file. Open the content of file in notepad and post its content in the question. This would tell you why SQL Server is not able to come online Workaround: You should go to SQl Server configuration manager and locate SQL Server service. Change SQL Server service account to Local System and start SQL Server service. You may or may not succeed.Complete troubleshooting steps are documented in Could not find Database engine startup handle. If this does not work. Post content of errorlog file as suggested above. The contents would tell us what stopped SQl Server from coming online. Note: Its not a good security practice to run SQL Server service account via . After you are done with cluster installation. Create a domain account and change the service account with this domain account. This domain account will have least privileges as documented here 

This is just a bit of information. There is too much to derive from content of transaction log and it would be difficult to write down all here. But I can suggest you various blogs of Paul Randal where you can find him writing about how to take help of the output of fn_dblog to get various information. Time Pass with Transaction Log Another dive into Transaction Log Read various articles by Paul you would learn a lot about contents of transaction log Tracking page split using Transaction Log How to tell who changed Log file characteristics Using fn_dblog,fn_dump_dblog and restoring STOPBEFOREMARK using LSN 

You should use below query, this will filter out unnecessary index which has page_count <1500. Its advised only to rebuild index having page_count >1500 

First you did a bit of mistake you are actually installing SQL Server 2008 R2 but in your question you have clearly in Bold written SQL Server 2012. Since you provided me 2008 r2 setup logs I would assume you did typo and you are installing SQL Server 2008 R2 so Please correct the question I found below in SystemconfigurationCheck_report.htm 

EDIT: There is NO restart required Edit: After discussing on chat it was identified that Veeam backup was running for past 2-3 days and was somehow hung. OP killed the process and it went into rollback state where it was again stuck OP has to ultimately restart the VM and the issue seems to have resolved. Also advised OP to log a ticket with Veeam because that was definitely a third party Veeam backup issue. 

I agree with every fact that Sean mentioned. The simple answer is this is not an issue UNLESS you show me out of memory condition. This is how SQL Server behaves. Like I mentioned in thread you took reference SQL Server memory management is dynamic. If you see more pages for particular database then its being used frequently by queries or other wise it will be aged out. Database engine is not fool to favor memory to particular database. You can do a test. This might put load on dataabse(so careful) but just to prove memory allocation is dynamic and is allocated as per needed. create a new table in Tarmac42 database start inserting records in it may be million at the same time run select * on some different table with large records you would see memory allocation increasing for database Tarmac42 and decreasing for SupervisorP database. 

If it comes out clean you can restore the backup to get back the database. The data loss also depends upon the recovery model of database if it is simple you can only restore full and differential backup if it is bulk logged and Full you can restore full ,differential and log backups to get minimum data loss. Are you able to take backup of current database with continue after error. Please see if below command works, I guess it would 

You cannot and should not come to conclusion that SQL Server is facing memory pressure by just looking at one perfmon counter, this is just not correct. You have to rely on other perfmon counters which I am sure you are aware. Now for your question, since both are same this means the SQL Server memory requirement is balanced as of now and its quite likely that SQL Server is not facing memory pressure. In most cases I have seen that on steady system target and total server memory are equal and I have always found out that when they are same it means currently there is no memory pressure.