Update: Check the Apache error logs (all of them) "Could not connect" suggests a basic IP connectivity problem rather than an Apache vhost configuration problem. The latter is more likely to result in a HTTP response of 404 or 500. If the request reached Apache you should see an entry in the error log. If there is no entry there, it is a good indicator that Apache isn't receiving any request. Follow up warnings and errors reported by Apache NameVirtualHost *:80 has no VirtualHosts See common misconfigurations 

The chances of three drives failing simultaneously are very small. More likely you have a hardware failure elsewhere, perhaps in the disk controller, perhaps in memory, perhaps elsewhere on the motherboard. I have an IDE/SATA to USB adapter I use to test drives on other computers, to migrate data etc, I would check the drives on another computer and run diagnostics on the faulty PC. 

You suggest that an SSH session from *nix computer to *nix computer is dropped. Leaving you at a *nix shell prompt. From your mention of MobaXterm as an alternative to PuTTY I deduce you are using the Windows version of PuTTY not the *nix version of PuTTY. If so it isn't clear why your SSH connection is in two parts (Win-PC -> "main" -> "client"). If you are Using PuTTY to log in to main and then using to log into client, it isn't especially surprising that PuTTY's ^C is handled by main and not passed to client for . We can refer to $URL$ which discusses this topic. 

Since I don't know of a file upload service with the characteristics you require, I'd do one of: 1) Teach your clients how to use Windows explorer to drag & drop files onto your FTP server. 2) Run Apache with a file upload script that drops files into the same place as your FTP service (thus making no change for your designers). 3) Pay someone to do 2. 

Before you can install Xen, you must first install an operating system such as RedHat/Centos, Ubuntu, BSD, Solaris, or Windows in the normal way. 

The Communications Data Bill requires service providers to keep logs. It doesn't provide for decryption of data content. I imagine GCHQ and the SIS have ways of circumventing your VPN security if they so wish (though they may need a court order to stay within the law - RIPA etc). 

Most GNU/Linux commands allow a option to indicate end of options so that subsequent prefixed words are not treated as options. 

Which, in this case, shows that my client software supports >= TLS 1.0 and is not restricted to <= SSL 3 I'm posting this answer on the off-chance that someone else might, now or in future find it useful to verify protocol levels. 

If you are new to Linux I suggest you install software by installing packages using the package manager. Different distributions of Linux use different packagae managers. For Ubuntu - check the documentation for installing software After a few months you may be familiar enough with your distribution to install software directly using tar, gunzip, make and other lower level tools. Personally I don't because I appreciate the benefits of having the package manager know about all the software on the system. 

The problem could arise form either spikes or sags in the power-supply or through direct electromagnetic interference (think radio waves, early morse radio transmitters used spark-gaps, I believe arc-welders also have an electrical current sparking across an air gap when the welder strikes the arc) Could you ask the welder to check his earthing 

To run Java programs on your Windows-2008 server you only need to install on it the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) which you can download from Oracle's Java website. To run a Java web application you need to first install the corresponding web application framework 

But that's too easy (so I haven't tried it). I'm sure the answer will be blindingly obvious in retrospect. But that's small comfort now. 

I've read people's accounts of having installed Xen on Ubuntu, so I believe it can be done without excessive difficulty. 

Intel are talking about something different from the normal process threads. They are talking about their "Hyper-Threading" technology that allows the cores in the CPU to each perform the work of (almost) two. 

The current shell expands $HOME first, then the result is passed through to the command ( in this case) and thence to a shell process running as the new user. Try protecting the variable with single quotes 

Since the WinDbg "probable cause" is GreGetGlyphIndices and Glyphs are character shapes used in Fonts, then yes, it is likely related to your font problems in Chrome. Perhaps a specific Font, one used by Chrome, is triggering this problem? I would change the fonts used by Chrome (so far as is possible) and see if the problem recurs. 

"Normal" Computers Without an operating system, You cannot run a program that was written to be run in an operating system. Most programs are of this sort. You could write a program that runs without an operating system but this would be a very hard task, mainly because the operating system provides drivers for all the hardware. Without the OS, your program would have to drive the specific hardware directly. Not all hardware makers release details of how to do this (e.g. nVidia) but only provide drivers for specific operating systems. You'd also have the problem of how to get the computer to load and run your program. With most desktop computers you'd have to place the program where the BIOS would expect to find an OS loader. It is likely you'd have to write the program in a low level language - assembler or perhaps something like C without any standard libraries that are OS dependent. Microcontrollers You can write programs for things like the Arduino without any OS on the Arduino. there are development kits that allow you to write code in relatively high level languages, the development kits usually provide the equivalent of drivers for the specific hardware. Operating System You can redefine "Operating System" in a way that invalidates all the above. I am assuming you mean software comparable to the Windows or Linux operating systems. 

Use the SetTimeZoneInformation API I don't think MS have anticipated your need but it may be possible to define a custom time zone with a 10 minute offset. This article contains example data for replacing the timezone table - with a small amendment you could achieve what you want. 

On any platform, whether you can open a web page should not essentially be affected by framebusting or by whether the browser is embedded in an app. So far as I know, framebusting usually relies on Javascript. If your platform supports Javascript then the browser will initially load the URL you specified but then the framed part that has framebusting will force a load of it's unframed URL. If your platform does not support Javascript, or has it turned off, it will load the original (framing) page and any framed content. If any part of that page depends on Javascript to insert some of it's content then you will not see the information correctly. Some websites have the opposite - Javascript that reloads a navigational frame around a URL that is only intended to be seen in that context. Again this action is only affected by whether Javascript is supported and enabled. 

traceroute works by sending a packet with a deliberately low TTL count. This count is decremented by each router it transits, when the count is zero the router discards the packet and should send a reply saying that the TTL has expired. The three asterisks are because traceroute makes three attempts to get a response at a particular TTL setting. If any router is configured not to reply in the case of TTL expiry, it still does normal routing of packets and subsequent packets with higher TTLs are still passed along as they should be. The next packet sent by traceroute has an initial TTL one higher, enabling it to reach one router further along the chain and get that next router to send an expiry response. This is why one router that doesn't respond does not stop traceroute 

I would guess that "Adobe Server 3" refers to Adobe flash media server However although a port may be registered with IANA for a particular purpose, there is nothing to stop you configuring almost any service to listen on that port (e.g. an Apache HTTPD server). Alternatively there is nothing to stop some malware listening on that port for remote control or command connections. Use to identify the program listening on that port. 

Most films have a different aspect-ratio than does your computer screen. Therefore full-screen is not possible - either you watch a smaller part of the film and hope nothing interesting or worthwhile is happening in the part you can't see or you accept that not all your display is going to be filled with filmed material. I'd rather watch what the director intended than some mutilated or heavily distorted travesty, but I recognise that others find a small bit of blackness deeply disturbing to the consumerist psyche. 

It does, but it attempts to do so smoothly, network jitter can make the time differences appear to change when they have not. 

Start it in Safe mode, then run chkdsk. Make sure you have a good backup of your data in case you need to reinstall. If necessary, use a rescue CD (or bootable USB drive / flash). E.g. System Rescue CD Run diagnostics to check if the disk is OK. Check memory too. A final resort is to replace the disk (if suspected faulty), reinstall the operating system and applications then finally restore your data from backup. 

Untested, you may need to use to "escape" characters that are reserved characters in powershell. Powershell is a good choice because you almost certainly already have it on your Windows computer. I have no incentive to learn Powershell because it is so easy to install Perl (and/or GNU file utils including sed awk grep etc) Using perl the solution would be something like 

It is possibly a problem with your Internet Service Provider (ISP). Their Domain Name Service (DNS) servers may not be providing the correct results or their routers may have a fault in their routing tables or a connection problem to some parts of the Internet. Here is what I would do: Check the name Open a command prompt window (start, all programs, accessories, command prompt) type and press enter. You should get an answer like this 

No idea, but I watched the first tutorial video about zencoding and sparkup in scribes. Since sparkup is available for my favourite editor, vim, I haven't yest seen a compelling case for switching. Scribes looks good. 

The PSD file format is documented by Adobe - you can read how it stores font information. You could then examine a hex dump of the file and use the file format specification to find the fonts. Alternatively, the font names ought to be visible in the output of the utility found on Linux/Unix systems. 

According to page 59 of the Thinkpad T61 Service and Troubleshooting Guide the T61 does not have a DE9 RS232 serial port and nor does it have a DB25 IEEE1284 parallel port. So far as I know, IO-addresses and IRQs are only really needed for the hardware associated with the old style DE9 and DB25 ports. The Wikipedia article for Parallel port lists typical IRQ and IO settings but, unless your computer is equipped with legacy port hardware of some sort, this is unlikely to be useful. 

To connect three computers you need only one Ethernet switch and no routers. Windows XP computers will "see" each other if they are all connected to the same LAN segment (same subnet) and configured with the same workgroup name and you wait long enough (10-15 minutes). Configuration options include 

If you look at example C source for TCP client described in Howto, you will see that the "sockets" API does not provide any means for the client initiating a connection to specify a source-port. 

Here we can see that port 80 is already in use by the httpd program. If there is a better explanation, someone will be along soon to downvote this answer and post a more useful one :-) 

I suspect they are old versions of the Linux kernel that have been left there after the system' auto-update feature has installed new versions as they become available. They are only useful if the new version doesn't work and you want to revert the change. In other words, no. 

I would purchase a router that will work with the ADSL modem and which provides the other features you need. I would look for a router with a built-in firewall and built-in gigabit Ethernet switch. Here's a review of one example (with more capability than you need) 

Because the packets have a source IP-address and a Source port - together these uniquely identify each connection When your two browsers on one PC want to fetch a URL they ask the operating system (OS) to set up a connection, The OS chooses a random source-port address for each connection. 

Check your ASP site and browsers support TLS 1, some software may have dropped support for SSL 2,3 now they are insecure. For example see howsmyssl.com, poodletest.com, testssl.sh or similar test. 

I set up a local DNS server as a forwarding-only server, give it the address of your ISP's nameservers. Then add a local domain to it's config. Add the necessary forward and reverse records for each local name you want to use on the web-server. Set all the PCs to use the local DNS server. (Ideally using DHCP) Then when PCs ask for the address of (computer in your local domain ), your local DNS server knows it is authoritative for that domain and gives the answer itself. For any other query, the local nameserver forwards the query to your ISP's DNS server (or whatever you configure as a more knowledgable DNS server).