You may want to look at freebsd-gpio (in Perl, Python, and Ruby) or fbsd_gpio_py (Python only, but it looks more active) on GitHub – judging from the Raspberry Pi entry in the FreeBSD Wiki this is the "official" way to do it using calls on . 

There are a number of questions asking about installing/running FreeBSD on the Pi – it looks like there are a lot of problems. Is FreeBSD runnable on the Pi? How can I get started? 

If the SD card isn't called substitute the name you see in Finder. Then eject the card and put it back in the Pi and reboot the Pi. Next you need to figure out what IP address the Pi has been assigned. I'm assuming that it is "headless" so you can't just watch the console. That would be too easy... So, take a look at this question: Find Raspberry PI address on local network, my favorite method is to the broadcast address on the network () then use . Once you connect to the Pi run the command and permanently enable it is under Option 5, Interfacing Options. As I understand it, the trick in step 1 is a one-time thing. 

Create an empty file named in the root of your SD card, and Figure out the IP address of the Pi (see here if you don't know how), and finally 

Look at the efficiency specs on the converter (higher is better) and get the lowest power rating that will do the job. Both of those will reduce the waste heat produced by the power supply. Is there any chance of either venting the space where the project is installed or putting the power supply outside of the space in free air? 

I have downloaded recordmydesktop on my Pi and when I record I get a slightly red screen when watching the video. Is there a way to stop this from happening? 

Is the image a desktop image? If so connect your Pi to your router and find the IP address of it on the routers webpage. Then ssh into it. Enable VNC in raspi-config. Download tight vnc onto your computer and use it to connect to wifi. 

This regularly happens if you dont place the HDMI cable in before booting up. You just have to unplug the pi, insert HDMI, then boot up again. 

Plug the raspberry pi into your router with an Ethernet cable. Fire the pi up and the lights on the Ethernet module should start blinking. Then goto your routers webpage and insert you username and password. Find connected devices, then use the IP address for your raspberry pi in putty. Another option is to see if the green lights blink for some time after you power up the pi. If they don't make sure you are using a suitable adapter for the micro usb cable. 5V 2.5A for a pi3 If this dosen't work still, then check that your SD card has the image properly installed. I use etcher to burn zip images to SD cards. 

First you want to add a folder to /mnt . It needs to be called usb Next, make a new file with leafpad and type inside it: 

What about the and connections? Can I just connect the out of the first strip to the in of the second strip and then hope that the signals sent from the raspi to the first strip will magically be transferred to the second strip? I can't help but shake the feeling that it's not that simple since power supply is so finicky (ie. voltage drop, wire thickness, series v parallel...) I get the feeling I am jerry rigging power supplies in here all willy nilly. 

This apparently has to do with insufficient memory being allocated to my raspi (specifically raspi2), see here. I tried changing the memory split to be 128 and 128 through , then restarting, but when I run the below command, I get different memory splits. 

Simple SPI on Raspi Simple Command Line Utility for Raspi RPI-LPD8806 Pixel Pi Light Painting With Raspi Raspberry Pi and the WS2801 

I added synchronizing capabilities to omxplayer, you can checkout the repo here. Note this is still in development, however, to the best of my knowledge, it is the only way to get reliable synchronization across multiple raspis. 

I managed to both download the binary, and install from source, but installing from source is extremely extremely difficult, contrary to what people say, as it requires a cross compiler. Also, before proceeding, bear in mind that this synchronizing script is written in python, so it is not very good. Downloading Binary: This is the easiest way to do it, but it is not simply drag and drop. First, download versionc0dd950 of omxplayer. Next move it to wherever you have omxplayer installed (warning this will overwrite your existing omxplayer...also just renaming it to something else, like won't work). Next, launch the program, and when it fails, look for the the libraries it is missing, (ie. ) then locate that library on your computer and link where it actually is to where the downloaded build of omxplayer is looking for it. Once that is installed, you can download omxplayer-sync and use it to synchronize the videos. 

I have zram up and running. Did you remember to chmod the file? Did you remember to add the command to /etc/rc.local? I can see that my swap is working because i have a utility called conky. 

I accidently did this before as well. I had used the lite version of raspbian rather than the full version with desktop mode. As you said you have a 2GB micro SD card, I would personally think it would be wise to get one with 8GB or higher and burn the desktop image to that SD card. 

i have tried downloading quake 3 from various tutorials. The ones I have tried are from a post in 2012. Doesn't work for me probably outdated. Tried one from 2014. Was gonna take 1 and a half hours to download a 51.7MB zip file. My wifi is not bad (Max 50mbps, server of download must be really slow.). It stopped downloading 75% of the way for no reason. Anyone can tell me how to download Quake 3 for my RPi3, Raspbian stretch? 

This usually happens with me. It's basically trial and error. First off, you need to turn off Bluetooth (if you have it on). Then turn on the Bluetooth speaker, and turn on Bluetooth on the RPi. At the top right corner, right click and choose your Bluetooth device. It should connect. Try playing some sound. What you basically have to do is always turn on Bluetooth on the speaker first, then the RPi. 

I am trying to control it using my raspberry pi (running raspbian). Many sites point out that Wheezy does not have hardware SPI installed and I have to do a firmware update, install the beta Wheezy, or install Occidentalis. I don't want to do any of that, and besides I am fairly certain that I have SPI installed for the following reasons: 

On omxplayer, if I play a file, it often works the first time, then if I press and play it again, I get 

Question: Can someone walk me through diagnosing this as either an SPI problem or a program problem. EDIT: 

Which tells me that SPI is installed. However, using this program from this tutorial it tells me that SPI is not set up correctly, observe 

I need to control the light such that all 100+ft are working together (ie. the same color or color transitions continuous). Ideally, I would connect them to one power source, but that will lead to voltage drop. I could try to connect them in parallel, but eventually there will be too many amps. I could connect a power supply for each 5m, and then network all the raspis to give the appearance of all strips working together, but that requires power supplies for the raspis, and I don't want to go around the house and hide them all. Could someone give a very beginners explanation of how I can both power that many LEDs and control them from a single raspi. EDIT: I wanted to know how I would have to connect them, for example if a 5v 2A adapter to a 10m strip is failing can I just use a second 5V 2A adapter and split the strip into 2x5m strips, then connect the first adapter to the first 5m strip and the second adapter to the second 5m adapter (see below)? 

If you have a clear shot to the buoy you should do some tests. You may be able to get considerably more than the nominal range with no obstructions in the way. Do a test on the beach or in a field where you don't have to go for a swim... On the shore side there are "tricks" you can do to improve the efficiency of the antenna. That would also help with your range. A search on will net you lots of ideas to try. 

In cases like this it helps to break the problem down – which in turn means knowing something about the pieces that need to line up for a network connection to succeed. Much of this information isn't specific to the Pi or it's OS, but it will be helpful to know the tools and foibles of the particular hardware and OS that you are using. This question and its answers may help: How do I set up networking/WiFi/static IP address?. Testing with other devices on the same network may also help pinpoint where the problem lies. Rebooting often works wonders. In general you want to start close and expand as you test, so you might: 

It sounds as if you may not have enabled the SSH daemon. As a security measure ssh is off by default. You can enable it – for the next boot – by creating an empty file called in the root of your boot device. The easiest way to do this is to mount the SD card on another computer and the create the file. The contents of the file are ignored and it is deleted at boot. To make the change permanent: 

the topic technically says everything, I will be using Openmediavaults image on the raspberry pi. I will be using it as a home media server(Cause I have a spare Rpi2 doing nothing.) People are saying that the SD card in raspberry pi has a limited life... Now, with Openmediavault, the SD card only holds the data of installs, and boot files and it's sort of like a new raspberry pi with raspbian but not too much data on it. I will be using a 8GB and 2*16GB thumb drives. Can thumb drives easily be corrupted? 

The power bank shoudn't get hot. The raspberry pis core is a pretty small square. As you said there is no ventilation. If possible, place the power bank on top of the older box and feed the cable into the box. 

Downloaded etcher. Downloaded zip file of raspbian (you are using Ubuntu, not sure if it will work this way) Plugged in my SD card and burned the zip file to the SD card with etcher. Add a empty file called ssh, make sure there is no extension such as .txt Insert SD card into pi, connect Ethernet cable and micro USB cable. power up the pi, and find your pis IP address on your router page. Open terminal and type: ssh pi@YourIpaddress Change YourIpaddress in the last step to your raspberry pis up address Your done! 

Thanks for all the help. I found out a way. All you have to do is DONT EDIT the /etc/fstab folder, make a new text editor file, and write mount -a (location point). Then save it as mount.sh and put it in your desktop. Then in terminal type Sudo nano chmod -x mount.sh Then type Sudo nano /etc/rc.local At the bottom before exit code 0 type /home/pi/mount.sh Save it, then reboot. The USB drive if present should automatically be mounted if plugged in before booting. If you forget to place your USB drive before booting, insert the USB drive and double click on the mount.sh file and click run in terminal. Very simple easy way. 

I could use this tutorial, but then I have to go out and purchase those transistors. Can I instead use this LED strip with this tutorial? 

To all you *tongue in cheek* haters and doubters, this is not an SD issue, but rather a faulty operating system issue. As mentioned here: user gsh 

I went through hell installing a cross compiler on Ubuntu for my Raspi. Now, I have Raspi2's and I am I am going through it again. Could someone provide instructions here for myself and others who are struggling with this. 

I managed to download a program and run it which would turn all the lights on. However, this would crash my raspi and I had to physically unplug it. Also, I can no longer recreate this. My folder has the files , and 

Using the keyboard to control the position in a movie (via left/right and Up/down arrows) leads to noticeable delays (1-5s), with a slight 'hiccup' afterwards, and bizarre behaviour (ie. having to pause and unpause to get movie to resume). If I specify a seek time from the command line (via ) it is a little faster, but then there is a 'hiccup' every time. A quick google search and I came across the concept Key frames or I frames which speed up the seek times. Is omxplayer slow because it does not use these iframes or is it just slow because of its processor? Is there anything I can do to the video files to speed up this process? 

At the bottom of the file before exit 0, type: /home/pi/Desktop/Mount.sh Reboot and the USB drive inserted will be mounted at /mnt/usb This only works for one USB drive inserted. This also dosn't work if you have not rebooted with your drive plugged in. To see if your drive has been mounted or not, goto /mnt/usb. Any data on the USB will be there. There are many ways to mount a USB. Other ways require the USB to be in the raspberry pi at all times. For my method, if a USB is not found, a line before boot will say Failed. 

Here is how automatically mount a USB drive on boot. This way only works for one USB unless others are specified. 

switch off bluetooth on pi turn on bluetooth on headphones to make it discoverable turn on bluetooth on pi and connect to headphones Thats it! watch your vids/music. 

My raspberry pi 2 had a problem sort of like this. I used an 8GB kingston card. I think that you should either and rewrite the image to it or buy a new SD card that is used in car cameras. These support high read/write speeds. 

SD card needs to be formatted as FAT32 Use Etcher if you aren't already doing so. Download Raspbian Desktop ZIP file from Raspberry Pi Foundations Download website Don't open ZIP file. Burn to SD card with etcher. Make sure you are using a correct power supply. RPi2: 2 Amps, 5 volts. RPi3: 2.5 Amps, 5 volts. Plug HDMI, Keyboard and mouse into RPi. Turn on monitor and boot RPi. Setup. Want to use NOOBS? Tell me in comments.