VPN router is a pretty broad noun to describe networking hardware. When I think of a "VPN router" it could be a firewall, which is used for routing traffic from the internet or WAN connections. Small business class equipment like the Cisco RV042 are not apples to apples when compared to something like a Cisco ASR. Whitepapers and manuals are your best friend when you want to understand a products capabilities.....Thorough understanding of the theory behind what makes those concepts work is another piece of the puzzle. Time to hit the books id say =). 

I am responsible for a project conducting a major code upgrade on our core/aggregation and distribution layer switches along with our ISP routers. We run all Juniper Routers and switches minus a few stray Arista switches used for aggregation. Ive already done most of the keg work, and research on the actual processes involved in this but my question is this. When I cut over to my secondary routing engine on the MX80s which will be our first portion of the project, should I expect to see any sort of packet loss or service interruption? I am aware that making the secondary RE is supposed to avert this, however this will be my first major upgrade in a large production environment. Thanks 

0.0.0.0 is great for egresss and GateWay of last resort, however you can only imagine the bad things that could ensue when any traffic was allowed to pass through the FW looking for its "path" kind of defeats the purpose of the device. 

Check the circuit info again to verify everything along with your BGP configuration....Also is this a new issue or did the interface pass traffic until recently and then just cease functioning? To me this sounds like a routing issue, I agree with Ron. This would explain why it works from one ISP and not another. If it is not configured correctly for this particular ISP most likely a BGP issue the static IP is not going to be reachable. One other consideration is proper rule implementation at the FW..if I understand this right there was a different ISP or something along those lines...or this was a new acquisition, in that case you may need to validate your FW rules to make sure they are ideal to accomodate this new site. 

Any time I have have configured a link such as this in smaller networks using these two pieces of equipment I trunk the link that is the fiber link containing the SFP on both ends, define encapsulation and native vlans and then define allowed vlans on the trunk. I know iit isnt always a standard, it depends on what IOS version and platform etc...but I also define no negotiate on the trunk port to avoid encapsulation issues. This shouldnt be a problem with a 2960 though I believe they only are capable of dot1Q. Best, 

Captive portal or splash page, we use them all over in the property I work in....Gaming property in Las Vegas with multiple guest free and pay wifi SSIDs. 

Simple formula....find your number of hosts then subtract 2...first address in the subnet=network ID, last IP is the broadcast address used for communication out of the network to other networks. These two IPs are not valid for assignment to devices on the subnet. 

DCE=ISP DTE=customer side they operate off of different standards which are not commonly used in many environments anymore. Setting the bandwidth and clockrate for this type of setup is necessary and must match on both sides of the link if im not mistaken. X25 and HDLC are common for this type of setup...the 192.168.0.0 represents the network link of the serial connection between the two routers .1 and .2 are equal to the last octet in the 192.168.0.x network (class c) and are on the same subnet. Both of these are private IP addresses not routable on the internet. S0/0/0/0 refers to serial links in routers in Cisco hardware, Serial links are commonly used for connections to ISP at network boundaries or to WAN links of an ISP. 

The "active management VLans are the ones currently being utilized....you can open the pipe full blast and allow all vlans across a trunk...I wouldnt recommend it, however this is what that configuration says. Also it looks like 99 is your native vlan, which essentially means it sends the frames in an almost untagged fashion but not quite....gi1/1 seems to not be participating in STP for some reason, without seeing the show Spanning-tree command your guess is as good as mine. just make sure when you use trunked links...you specify, encapsulation native vlan, and allowed vlans on the trunk along with the fact that it is a trunk..... Good luck! 

Using the DHCP server or known bindings you can find it, I have done this in Windows server before, it is not common but it is possible. ARP is locally based and just a binding between an IP and MAC address tying them together to facilitate traffic flow past the boundaries of layer 3 network boundaries.....This is where routers come in. MAC addresses are only important getting the frame/packet to the router, at that point it is then forwarded again based on the MAC/IP combination. ANgry IP scanner would tell you, and you could locally perform an arp -a...routers use this to map MAC addresses when they are not known at a layer three boundary in order to assist with route forwarding for packets. this information is then stored in the arp cache of the device.MAC addresses exist per LAN, routers connect LAN boundaries at layer 3, hence tying the two together. 

For starters, you need to split the scopes and other pertinent data at the ASA and at the organizational level. I was reading your description and it sounds like you are going to need to split the scopes, isolate the traffic and IP scope from wired or VLAN 94 to stay on 94, wireless guest traffic should be separated and placed on Vlan 98 along with making any necessary changes to switch configuration and ASA rules/configuration to reflect the separation of traffic. As far as your statement regarding tagging at the switch ports, it will function properly however if you are tagging and running trunks make sure your Native Vlan settings along with allowed Vlans are configured properly on both sides of the link. In situations where I've taken possession of a network environment and the previous engineers weren't strong in certain areas I have seen something as simple as improperly configured trunk links cause an interface to not pass traffic properly. 

Using most modern APs and WLCs you can make use of the 2.4 and 5 ghz spectrums G,N and AC band standards...there is no need to create two separate environments. We have 4 or 5 guest wifi SSIDs in our environment although use AP numbers in the thousands and 6 WLC controllers. ALso through MIMO its possible to use multiple vlans and environments without dividing the physical equipment, it is divided on the logical level. The APs and WLC software know when they have different SSIDs that interference needs to be avoided and will adjust accordingly. just create a different group for your guest APs and their SSID and implement more restrictive policies on that group to avoid problems. Think access rights QOS etc.... 

Using the WLC, this is something that can easily be figured out through IP and MAC address logging. I would hope that you would have multiple VLAns in that type of environment or at least three in a small one, like MGMT, corp and guest at the very least.... In that scenario you would have three logical IP blocks and this would provide you a lot of advantages from traffic flow to security. 

We use Solarwinds in our environment for this Ron, but I'm not sure how sensitive it is I will look when i return from lunch. Im fairly sure it posseses what you are looking for as we run a large amount of arista switches for aggregation along with our Juniper environment. 

The two concepts are similar in many ways however they differ in a few important details. Vlans will have an IP address associated with them and will also be part of a subnet/IP addressing scheme. IP Subnets communicate at layer 3 through IP datagrams or packets whereas Vlans communicate through trunk links and frames and make use of tagging. It is not necessary for members of a VLAN to all share the same IP subnet address and in many cases multiple IP subnets will be part of one Vlan. 

With the limited information offered on your environment...Ive seen something similar at one of my previous positions. We had IPsec tunnels setup in a hub and spoke format coming from all of the companies airports with the traffic travelling into the data center first and then travelling into the interior of our network. That is a simple summary...ASR>ASA>5K>checkpoint firewalls for HQ>Cisco 3850 campus switches stack of 8. That was ours primarily although we had two data centers and all traffic in a hub and spoke setup IPSEC tunnel setup funnels through the data Cisco ASR routers>Core switches>ASA>Checkpoint firewalls>campus level switches etc etc atleast that was our design when I was employed with the airlines =). 

Is port 24 a trunk or acccess port? General protocol is to use 24 as the trunk link on a 24 port switch and allow all or any necessary vlans to traverse the link. This in itself would create multiple mac address entries. This should prove your theory that i=this is a false positive...do a show cdp neighbors....or lldp neighbor then see what the the output is, it might just be different.Also show interface trunk on gi 0/24 , or show interfaces switchport which is going to tell you a lot more data such as the vlans in use on the ports in question. 

The switch learns MAC entries when frames enter through the various interfaces. When making decisions on where the frame goes when the switch receives future frames it refers to the CAM table to do so, when it looks at the table and sees a mac entry matching a port, it then forwards the frames out of that port.If no entry is found a multicast packet or FF-FF-FF-FF is sent out basically saying, I do not know where this MAC address resides, this packet is forwarded out of all interfaces except the receiving port. When a response is received it records this data along with the data of which port it received it on. This data is then entered into the CAM table for future use. Hope that helps! 

I've seen it previously in an environment which worked fairly well, multiple SG300 switches, routing done at the L3 switch layer of the SG300 and then a Cisco ASA 55xx firewall on the edge of the network facing the redundant ISP connections. They are not the fastest or most efficient thing out there however some of the functionality that a router would perform can be pushed up to the ASA, the SG300 does have the limitation of not being able to run dynamic routing protocols if I'm not mistaken. Static routing or RIP are the only options in that scenario, can it be done yes...depending on the environment and amount of users. The question comes to mind whenever I hear something like this.... can it be done? Yes, however should it be done? 

-enable -conf t Enable ip routing if it is available: IP routing (if layer 3 capability is present) end 

I am fairly new to Juniper as an engineer and I have been doing some reading lately concerning IRB versus vlans. I have noticed we use them in most configurations throughout our environment, IRB that is. Can anyone share some of the advantages associated with both of these? From my understanding VLAN is generally used more with our EX series equipment due to it being layer 2, I do however see it on some router configurations. When would one use one over another or both in the same configuration for that matter? 

The 15.1 + versions of Junos use the version 9+ version of freeBSD or upgraded version of freeBSD...it provides a lot of new features although it will change the file structure when implemented complete backups are necessary because data loss is possible. 

I do not think I saw anyone mention it, another piece of good knowledge to have are the two commands: commit confirm overwrite and commit confirm merge. These two commands help with similar things the main difference being that the commit confirm merge copies content from another configuration that contains data you want to integrate to your current candidate configuration. I generally copy it from notepad++ Or copy it out of the configuration with the copy button in secureCRT. This command does not overwrite any of your current configuration. Commit confirm overwrite does as it sounds and overwrites the current configuration with the new configuration. A rollback would be necessary to revert from this operation. Lastly, when committing any new configuration data, its always good practice to use the commit check command prior to confirming.