I know this isn't exactly what you're asking, but sometimes its just better to bite the bullet and ditch the older servers. Sure, at a gut level that feels wrong and you can still remember when the server was shiny and new - but if its something important do you want it running on a 6 year old server, and if its not important then do you really want to spend the time? In the long run I've found having a lot of important stuff on old hardware costs more in time (especially if you multiply up by the hourly rate of your affected users to get the total cost of the downtime) than it saves in hardware costs. At a pinch, backup is a reasonable use, but replace the drives if you're going to do that... 

OK, then in my limited experience this should be working and I cannot see how you would have the external IP address appearing in the web server logs. It might be worth making absolutely sure that your TEST is working correctly. Is there any possibility that your webserver is also available via port forward through the firewall, and that you're accidentally accessing it directly - make sure you've explicitly put 192.168.1.12 IP into the browser URL for instance. Assuming that looks OK I have found using tcpdump on the openvpn server to be a good way to watch the packets go in and out, this would confirm whether packets are leaving the openvpn server bound for the apache server with the incorrect IP address rather than somehow going there direct from the firewall. 

As the guide says, I would like to access hudson by navigating to mydomain/hudson instead of mydomain:8080/ so far, I have changed it so that mydomain:8080/ results in a 404, mydomain:8080/hudson actually takes me to hudson but mydomain/hudson results in an apache error that says: 

over and over again. I am using the 12.04.4 MAAS ubuntu install, and Juju version: 1.18.1-precise-amd64 The ssh keys have been generated, uploaded to maas, re-generated and uploaded to MAAS again. Also, the machine that juju is supposed to build will finish building (status in MAAS changes to "Allocated to bla") despite the environment bootstrap failure, and then it will power off. The status in MAAS goes back to "ready" and if I turn the virtual machine back on, it seems to go back into enlisting. Anyone know what could be going wrong? 

Alright, so I found the answer, after 2/3 of a day. Apparently as of php 5.3, php no longer uses the msql.dll extension when operating on IIS. Now, it uses something called sqlsrv.dll in its place. Also, with this new extension, comes the need to use the sqlsvr api from php available Here. So in essence, I was using mssql_connect, when I should have been using sqlsrv_connect. That still doesn't solve my issues with error logging, and I still can't connect to the server, but that is due to a bad username/pwd combo. So thank you all for your help, hopefully someone finds this useful sometime. 

If I change the "Physical Path Logon Type" from ClearText to Network. I get the following IIS error: 

So it follows that if I run a script to set the ES_JAVA_OPTS at startup before the elasticsearch service starts. I tried a lot of things to try and get the ES_JAVA_OPTS to be set but when looking at the logs I can see it was using the default. I've tried various things: 

This does not generate a failed request log strangely enough - I have set the failed request tracing to trace errors with error codes 400-999. Also worth noting is that if I open the Configuration feature from within IIS I see an access denied error. I have exactly the same set up on my local dev machine to the same UNC path and the same user it works. Just on the test server it does not. What am I doing wrong? 

Can I access my network drives on my host machine on the VM? This is possible on Virtual PC but I can't find the setting on VMware. I am running Windows 7, VMWare workstation 7.1.3 build-324285 

We had a major network issue where our secondary domain controller (responsible for Win2k3 boxes) died and had to be rebuilt (I beleive this is what happened, I am a developer not network admin). Anyway, I am working remotely via VPN at the moment and since this happened, I am getting an authentication box when trying to access certain areas of SDL Tridion via IE (Tridion 2009 SP1 is IE only) it seems like somewhere my credentials are not being passed correctly or the ones cached on my laptop do not match the ones the Domain Controller has. This only seems to affect Windows 2003 servers. Our IT support thinks that the only way to sort it out is to connect my laptop directly to the network. I am not planned to go to the office for a few weeks at least and this issue means I have to work with Tridion via Remote Desktop. We thought changing the password on my account might work but this didn't help. So basically my question is, is there any way I can reset my credential cache without having to reconnect to the network? Or is it IE that is causing the problem perhaps, since I can RDP to servers and use Tridion 2011 instances in other browsers fine? I am on Windows 7 using SonicWall VPN client. 

I have a need to convert a bare-metal machine to a virtual-machine (via VMware converter). This part has been done successfully. I have then been asked to convert the vmware image to a XEN hvm. The client wants to install their brew of xen hypervisor on the physical machine, and then have their virtual machine boot straight away (like its not a VM running on the machine). So basically, I would image the original OS, install XEN, and then run the virtualized OS on top of XEN. But ideally, the fact that the OS is a VM or running on XEN would be transparent to any user of that machine. Is such a thing even possible? From my understanding of the hypervisor layer, you'll always need a domain0, and that always has to be a physical machine, and trying to bypass domain0 and boot straight into a VM would not be feasable. Thanks 

I have a MAAS installation with it's interface at 10.12.1.3/MAAS. It is responsible for DHCP/DNS and the configurations are as follows: ip: 10.12.1.4 subnet mask: 255.255.255.0 broadcast ip: 10.12.1.255 router ip: 10.12.1.1 ip range low: 10.12.1.10 ip rane high: 10.12.1.100 I am booting virtualbox machines on the same machine as the cluster controller/region controller, and they enlist fine. I change their name in MAAS, accept, and commission them. The enlistment and commission process take a very long time (just food for thought). Once the machine has been commissioned, (it says ready in MAAS nodes list). Run JuJu bootstrap. Juju has the following environments.yaml: