Depending on what you are looking for - ARP poisoning might be the solution. That way you could capture the packets and examine them... They will be a little bit different than original ones (IP headers will have your computers IP as incoming/outgoing depending on if they are going out or into your network, but it does not matter... packets will stay the same and you'll be able to recognize what you need). check arpspoof and/or ettercap 

What does the NAS-ready imply and how suitable are these HDD's for desktop PC's? My home desktop PC is turned on whenever I'm home and/or I'm awake (I turn it off during the night). Would a NAS-ready drive be okay for that or should I look for something else? (I am looking at 3TB drives atm, and this is the only option where I live along with caviar greens and seagate baracudas which I would like to skip since I often see a lot of negative comments about them) One more thing - what I'm looking for is a reliable drive, speed is not that important to me. So in the end what I'm interested in is if NAS-ready drives are reliable in a desktop PC environment. 

I have a workbook with data connections to a number of TXT files containing data. I had to change the source file on one of them which all worked fine. However when I did a “refresh all” the data from the original TXT file came through. When I refreshed just that file the new data came through. I checked the connection list there was only one and it was pointing to the old file but when I looked in the names there were two overlapping names ranges. I deleted one and that fixed the problem. I’ve never seen this ghost problem before. Is there any reason for concern? 

BTW: I have had slightly different issues with tables but in my case it was filling an old formula. - see excel-table-inserting-old-formula-in-new-rows-how-can-i-reset-to-the-new-formula. 

Given the number of people has to be a whole number <2 is equivalent to <=1. To do this just use the "Number" option in the conditional formatting as per the screen grab. 

Probably some of the programs you're using recreates it everytime you run it... maybe nautilus uses it for default folder, or for example firefox as a default download place, or something similar..? edit: well, i'm not exactly sure this will work because it's quite old, but it still might put you on the right track... 

In Chromium I get "Changes to sync" notification with Xmarks as soon as I open a new website. I believe it wants to sync my history, and I would like to turn that off since I want only my bookmarks synced and not my history... In Firefox there is an option to turn off history sync but, in Chromium I don't see that anywhere.. Does anyone know a way to do this? Thanks. 

Is there a way to slowdown an online flash app framerate (from lets say 100% down to 30%)? Maybe some kind of an add-on for firefox or something similar? Maybe some other approach? thank you 

The best places to install packages on your machine are if you have admin rights and want everyone to use your program, or if you want to just make a copy for yourself. Normally you'd set the prefix as so that the application files are stored in settings in and so on. The advantage of using these standard places is ...well, basically that they are standard. People know where to look for the files. For example, is almost always in everybody's , so you won't have to fiddle with the variable to get people to run it. Similarly, libraries are found by checking but is usually checked by default so you don't need to add it manually, and so on. Regarding uninstalling: Once you have run configure and built the program, then will install it for you, and will remove the files automatically. 

I am trying to edit the meta data in the Word normal.dotm default template but changes to the {Company} field won't save. Changes to {Position} are saved but if I delete my name Word just restores this automatically to the template. Google search on this problem has been fruitless. (FWIW: I have done this in the default Excel template without any problem.) 

AFAIK Excel table's can develop a glitch that stops the auto-fill down from working. I'm not sure why this happens. My work-around is equivalent to turn-it-off-and-turn-it-on-again. It has worked reliably for me. 

Note: The formula must return a number, date, or time value. This is explained in the Excel help (my version is 2010) Since either an IF statement or other boolean functions return true/false, they will not work. 

Select ALL the cells in your sheet, untick "Locked" on them, then re-tick "Locked" only on the cells/columns that you want to protect and protect the sheet. (Every version of Excel I've used has had "Locked" ticked by default in the standard blank workbook.) 

try shoutcast, it's quite popular you can also try vibe streamer you'll probably have to enable port forwarding on your router for the streaming to work. 

I wanted to map my PSone gamepad to do some basic KDE/keyboard/mouse functions and everything works well except one thing. I use logitech ultra-x keyboard which has a few multimedia buttons (play, home, volumeup, volumedown..) and I wanted to map volumeup and volumedown keys to my pad with everything else. volumedown works well, but volumeup makes some trouble. after I start qjoypad and map it - it does work but after mapping it I still see the "[NO KEY]" (while it is doing its job - volumeup; that's strange).. after I turn qjoypad off and on I get this error: "Error reading button 6" and after that "Error reading definition for joystick 0" this is my layout: 

To reference a table within conditional formatting formula you will need to use . Your formula will thus be : I don't know why but it just works. Reference: How to use a table name in data validation lists and conditional formatting formulas (BTW: Why don't you just use the "Data Bar" Conditional Formatting in your table? It would be much easier.) 

You just need to pass the variant to a string type variable so you can use the function. This code works for me. Obviously edit to suit. 

I have an excel table that I set up some time ago. Two of the columns have formulas that in places have been typed over with values and in others have had the formula updated. I'm at the bottom of the original table now and when I add a new row it auto-fills the original formula I used, not the updated one. I have previously been able to work around this problem in other tables by deleting the formula everywhere in the column then putting the correct formula in the top cell. That is not as easily possible here since I have put manually values in a number of places. (I can do it in a complicated way.) Does anyone know how to reset the "default" formulas in an excel table? I'm using Excel 2010. Thanks. 

The packages ending in contain the headers and static libraries used when building an application that makes calls to that library. This may be enough for you if you are building an application from source, and you want to compile the library in statically. However all the applications you install from packages will be using the shared libraries, which are not provided by the packages, so you will need to install the base package as well. Almost all library packages which end in have a dependency on the base package, so if you select and choose to install it, your package manager should download automatically. If you download yourself, and try to install it, the install will probably fail since it needs specified as well. There are usually command-line switches to force an install without checking the dependencies, but they are rarely used and not recommended. In summary: You should really download the base package as well as the one, but usually the package manager will take care of that for you. 

I have a broadcom wireless card in my laptop and as far as I know, it acts as an USB device. I also have one USB stick wireless device (TL-WN422G - uses ath9k_htc driver) which I want to use at the same time as the first (Broadcom) device. The problem is, after I load ath9k_htc - iwconfig does not show the new USB device (the TL-WN422G - wlan1 / ath0 / whatever), but only the old one (wlan0 - Broadcom, checked by MAC). I tried this USB device (TL-WN422G) on my other computer that has PCI wireless card in it, and they both worked just fine together after I pluged it in... I get wlan0 (Ralink) and wlan1 (TL-WN422G). Is it some kind of a problem for the laptop that both devices are recognized as USB? How do I make wlan1 appear on my laptop? also, my system is fully up to date 2.6.35 kernel (Arch) edit: I've already downloaded the needed ar9271.fw from linuxwireless.org and I put it into /lib/firmware - something wrong in that? dmesg gives me this on laptop: 

NETWORKDAYS or NETWORKDAYS.INTL will calculate the number of 'work days' given a start date (say in B1), end date (say in B2) and list of holidays (say in B4:B40). The holidays could be public holidays or other days off when the allowance is not paid. The solution is then either: OR (The third term - - in NETWORKDAYS.INTL allows the "weekend" to be set more easily. Excel should give a pop up window explaining the different options. NETWORKDAYS() assumes it is Saturday and Sunday) There's plenty of tips on how to use this online, here's two: excel-networkdays-function, excel networkdays.intl function 

copy one of the formulas in the non-filling column to a holding cell delete all the entries in the column in the table. copy back the formula to the first cell in the column in the table. 

b) set to auto-refresh on opening as per the image below. Obviously you will need to have the 'data' workbook open, even if it is only in read-only mode. (You could obviously write some VBA code for this as well but I've tried to minimise that) 

after a client connects to an AP, if we don't explicitly lock it to a certain channel, will it just pick a channel and stick to it, or will it change the channel every few seconds/minutes/whatever? thank you 

if you want to enable something/anything for a certain user(s) at some point, you will be able to do so... 

with xev I got it what 122 and 123 are (they work normaly under KDE when I press them, it's just that 123 wont map and stay mapped for my pad) 

In my case, steps from this blog post helped. You need to downgrade to the generic Windows driver in the system. 

You can ARP spoof your phone from your computer and capture all the raw packets with Wireshark or tcpdump to examine them. Other way would be to turn your computer into an access-point, run wireshark on it, connect your phone to the network through that computer and capture the packets.