OOo Writer has different categories of styles, so the first step is to distinguish between them. Here's an overview over the different categories (from OOo docs): 

Just drag the formula from Cell Sheet2!A1 down and to the right; LO will adjust the cell reference accordingly: 

Based on this, it's possible to break up cell content (in ) on a line break using the and functions in two ways: 

Now, you can just use to inspect the details of that program starter. Another way would be to use the command to search a certain keyword in the man pages. 

You can do this only to a very limited extend. The easiest way would be not to number those two footnotes, but to use any character as footnote symbol. Then you could choose the same character for both footnotes. You could even use a number as manually-assigned character, but then the trouble starts if there are more, numbered footnotes in the same document. Because then, you have to take care not to get three footnotes with the same number (two manually-assigned and on auto-numbered). Personally, i would recommend not to use same numbers for two footnotes, but to use cross-references. You can cross-reference both the footnote number and the page where that footnote is located. So, in your case i would insert two "standard" footnotes with different numbering, and put a textual cross-reference in the second one: "" 

Select the "anchor" sentence or word; Set a bookmark on it: Menu -> ; in the dialogue, set a distinct name for the new bookmark: 

Sorry, didn't catch the point initially. So, a complete new answer (quick and dirty - and since it's bash programming, it works only with linux): use cURL to determine if there's a redirect (using parameter); depending on the result, use wget to get either the original url or the redirect target: 

You can add a flag in Column indicating duplicates in Col. using this formula in , and copying it down: 

Just insert a Frame, resize and move it to its final location, put the Cursor into the Frame, and create the ToC there (you may have to adjust the tabstops if the frame takes only half of the page's width). Generally, contents should be available in MS Word, too, but you may have to adjust styles (tabstops, indentation and so on; ToC functionality may be lost). But i don't recommend to switch between MSO and LO; since LO is freely available for Windows, i recommend to keep working with LO. 

Now, click the OK button. As only visible result, you'll see the tabstop markers in the ruler at the top: 

To hide row 3, row 5 and so on, click on the button of Col and select . This will hide every row where the cell is empty. To keep only rows 2, 8 and 14 (with text , and ), use the button on Col and select . 

Select the sentence or word that should point to the bookmark previously created; Set a hyperlink on the selection: Menu -> ; the Hyperlink Dialogue will appear: 

will give you the sum of years and months elapsed. To get the remainder months from the years sum, just use modulo (in Calc: ): 

You may use this if there's a maximum size resulting PDF shouldn't exceed. Now, just use the PDF export option to create a huuuuuuge PDF with your complete sheet data, without need for glueing or combining afterwards: 

Define four page styles ( to ); Modify and to have a footer; Modify to have as as (on the tab); modify to have as as in the same way; Assign to the first page; At the end of the first page, enter a manual page break (Menu Insert -> Manual Break); from the Style combobox, select , enable "change page number" to start from 1. 

To restrict an index entry to a single word, just double-click that word and select (from Menu ) -> . In the following dialogue, you can select if the word should appear in the TOC, the alphabetical index, or in a user-defined index. Applying different styles can be done using character styles for the index entries. 

Converting dates from OOo/LO Calc to MS Excel has to consider Excel's inherent restrictions regarding the handling of dates (see HP005199291 regarding Excel 2003 and HP010342495 for Excel 2013). Especially, Excel doesn't support calculations for dates before 1900. You can enter such dates in Excel only as strings, using the apostrophe to mark the cell content explicitly as string. So, i fear there's no overall solution for converting dates between the two office suits that cover every possible use case. To be sure, there's a quick solution making Excel to display dates instead of symbols: change the epoch to the 1904 date system. But this won't solve your initial problem (see below). To change the date system, open "" -> "" and look for the "" section. In my german-localized version, the options dialogue looks like this: Calc is able to use the 1904 date system, too. Open Menu "" -> "" -> "" -> "": 

If you want to indent only the text but not the numbering / paragraph symbol, yoou would have to set the tab stop / indent value as desired (for every level). 

You can set a default documents path using the Options dialog. Open menu "" -> "" -> "" -> "" and modify the "" path as requqired: 

Depending on the selected entry, the "" section in the dialogue will change. For example, to create an index of math formulas in a writer document, you will have to 

If this isn't the reason, you could try to create the formula from scratch using the formula wizard. Since the wizard displays interim results, it may be helpful to narrow down the problem. EDIT: The result is thrown if there's no exact match for the search criteria. So i assume it's not a matter of finding the result value in Column but in finding a match for in Column . A reason for this may be if the search criteria isn't a number but a string containing a number (the cell content would be instead of (notice the apostrophe). OpenOffice won't match the string with the number . 

Creating a user-defined function in Calc is very easy. Assuming you'll have to calculate value by multiplying three different values, you would simply create a macro like this: 

You can create an index of charts the same way (just select from the Objects list). For an index of tables, there's a type entry in the Type combobox, too. EDIT For tables and other objects, you can set a caption that may appear in the index of tables. There are two ways to insert a own caption: 

The only combination available with LibreOffice or OpenOffice is the Line/Bar combination. An alternative would be to use Gnumeric which is capable to combine different chart types, allowing for a line/area combination, too: 

In both cases, just enter the formula in A4 and drag it to the right, LO Calc will adapt the cell references automatically. 

Yes - you can update the default frame style with the parameters of your custom-styled frame, so it gets applied to every new frame inserted afterwards. 

Not an extension, but IMHO equally useful: a filtering proxy like Privoxy. It also allows for replacing ads by a custom image. Just activate banner filtering by size or by URL and pass your custom replacement image's path to the action.