I do not know if other users are experiencing this. But my firefox 4 installation always freezes (not responding) for about 10 seconds whenever I try to launch it. Here are the extensions that I have: 

Is there any google chrome extension that lets you manage other extensions?So that you can disable and enable them by just one click Because I have many extensions installed in my chrome browser but I do not use them everytime. So I disable them, then enable them later using the bookmark with this address: 

I had a compaq presario b1200, which is now unusable because they said it was a problem in the southbridge. What should I avoid doing with my computer so that it wouldn't end up like that? I'm currently using my desktop to convert videos using total video converter. I'm limiting the processor usage by using granola and setting it to lowest speed, I also set the processor priority to below normal. I've also done this with my compaq before but didn't use granola. Could this be the cause why the southbridge in my compaq failed? Should I avoid converting videos using tvc? 

I'm downloading ie8 for windows xp. Would it be safe to just install this ie8 without uninstalling ie6? Does this method will leave nothing about ie6 on my system. And all of its functions will be replaced by ie8? 

The critical events are growing when I turn off my computer during the night and turn it on again in the morning. I tried using check disk before and it solved event id 137. And I accidentally resolved event id 57 when I improperly turn off the computer. Tried issuing this command: 

Is there an application for windows which allows you to convert the audio from a playing video into text? 

Allows you to create folders where the files in number 2 will be placed. Allows you arrange all/any of the files in the computer according to file type, date, size, etc. 

I don't want to waste my blank dvd's for a burning software that does not work. Do you know of any software that can emulate cd burning? Maybe emulate it by burning the data into a flash drive which is seen by the software as a cd or dvd. Is it possible? 

What do I do when I see something like this? It really sucks if you want to download something and this one shows up. 

I have a laptop with windows vista and windows 7 as the os. The vista has an installation of kaspersky antivirus 2009 with original license. Since I am not using Vista frequently, can I transfer or make use of that installation on windows vista to be utilize by Windows 7? Without having to uninstall it from vista and reinstall it on 7? 

I have .php files on my www directory but the default application used for opening them is notepad. How do I change it to dreamweaver? 

This laptop is not even 1 month old. Why am I seeing horizontal lines on the display? Is it normal? I'm using it for more than 6 hours a day. The gray horizontal line shows up immediately after booting up. So I think this is not software related. How do I solve this problem? If you need more details just feel free to ask, thanks. 

Are there any alternatives to web of trust for chrome and firefox. Because I found out that Wot doesn't always ask you if you want to access a dangerous site or not. While I was browsing a while ago for a curriculum vitae template. I saw this image on google that looks like one. I click it but then it brought me to a site with a red mark in Wot, and wot doesn't even bother to inform me first that the site is dangerous. Do you know of any alternatives? 

Is there any application for windows xp/windows 7 that could create system restore points on the go. Because the system restore in xp is not very fast in creating restore points. You still have to set many things before you can create one. I want one with just one button and when you click it. A restore point is created. 

How do I properly uninstall previously installed visual styles for windows 7? As you can see, my theme is already ruined. 

Because when I search it on google. I only see the gdgt website with a download link for the first chrome os that has been release. Do you know where I can download a modified version of chrome os? 

Is there a free software for windows that I can use to extract software serial keys? I have just bought my laptop and I want to use the serial on my desktop because I'll be using this more now. 

Is there a way to automatically tweet the music that I play on windows media player aside from the now playing plugin since it requires license for extended use. Any other alternative music players that allows me to tweet the title of the music plus the artist will also do. Things like spotify, pandora, last.fm are not considered since they only work on selected countries. 

This is able to execute the file. But when I access $URL$ which is the address where shotgun is serving the sinatra app it gives me this error: 

I have installed fedora core 3(heidelberg) on vmware. But I have problems accessing anything from the internet. How do I check if I'm connected to the internet?How do I utilize the internet connection of the host OS? 

Under the settings where the ip address can be selected. I only see my external ip address. And any configuration(blocking sites) that I do from there wouldn't actually take effect. Unless I also try to change the dns server used by the computer itself. I know that my router is already using open dns, because when I type a random website in the address bar: 

Is it possible to protect files from intruders without encrypting it? Specifically php files. Because when I try to encrypt it , it won't be readable from the localhost. Even a simple application that will hide the local disk will do. But if you know other ways on how to protect files without encrypting then please tell. 

There is this software called doPDF which can convert images, word, poweropoint, excel files into pdf. $URL$ How do I make use of this awesome tool in the command line so that I can call it from PHP in order to convert files into pdf format. If you know other alternatives which can run on the command line then it's also accepted as an answer. 

I don't know why but everytime there is an error on the JavaScript of a page Chrome Canary just stops rendering the page and it just loads forever. In the screenshot below I just type "x" in the console, it is undefined but why did it have to go and break the whole thing. It could just output the error on the console itself. Maybe I was able to change some setting in chrome but I don't what specific setting it is. Is there any way to maybe reset Chrome settings?Because the way the browser is acting now is that its as if I've set a breakpoint on every page that I visit on the browser. Please help. Thanks. 

What is vfat?What is sda1 and what is -t? How do I type this in order to be compatible with my flash drive? 

How can I set the hard disk to never turn off permanently?And the sleep to never, together with the hibernate. Because the options resets to their default values when I turn off, log off or restart my computer. I am using granola on my laptop and it is set to lowest speed. When I restart it turns to full power again. Does it have something to do with the power options resetting to their default values? 

What processes should run on the background before I try to launch sap business one? I'm just a beginner and I need to create a new company before I can make use of sap. The problem is I can't create one because I'm having difficulties with the server which is on my computer. I've installed sql server 2005. But I'm using a sap business one application which is just mounted from a vhd file. Here are some screenshots: 

Is there something that I could use to communicate with the other people connected in my router? I turn off my router and modem to conserve electricity. I just want to give them a warning everytime I'm logging of that I would turn off the connection. A pop-up message will do. I'm using windows 7. My router is: TL-WR340G/TL-WR340GD (TP-Link), doesn't have many advanced features and its not supported by DD-WRT or Tomato firmwares. 

Debug mode is really getting annoying. How do I disable it, it just popped out of nowhere. Here's a screenshot: 

What are the things that I should do before trying to benchmark my computer: I've got this tools for benchmarking: 

I have this 356MB .rmvb file that I converted to .avi and it became 2Gb. But the size is still the same, and the quality still sucks. Is there any tool that could increase the resolution and quality of this video so that it would fit with my monitor. 

There's a specific software that I found before in lifehacker to do this job, but I can't find it anymore. What I want to do is to change the background image of the logon screen on windows 7. Do you know what's that app called. All I get when I search at google is a registry hack. 

This is really the problem when I'm using opera browser. I'm fond of backing up articles that I want to ms word(by copy pasting and save as pdf) because I believe that websites don't really last long. How can I enable opera to highlight images as well, because if you have already used opera for highlighting web pages you should have notice that it doesn't highlight images. 

I don't know why but I have experienced 3 times already that when I launch skype for Windows I get a BSOD. Has somebody experienced this before? What solutions can you suggest? If you need more details please feel free to comment. Here's a screenshot from bsod viewer: 

I'm trying to run a sinatra app on startup in linux mint. I'm using the startup applications preferences to add the path to the ruby file that I'm trying to execute: 

I'm using open dns to block unwanted sites. Everytime I go to the dashboard I always see this malware activity in all of the networks that I have in open dns. What do I do?I'm using avast free, spybot, and sas. And used them all to full scan the system. And they have removed the malware. But I still see this malware activity notice in open dns. 

Please help, I don't have any idea how to interpret what's written on blue screen view. How do I determine from this what cause the blue screen of death. 

I reboot and tried if I can connect to the internet, but no luck. It must be set to obtain your ip address automatically. Is there any way on getting a static ip address on an adsl/dsl 

I have 2 computers. Both with w7 as os. I have installed wampserver on one of them. I have mysql database on wampserver. Then I have made a vb.net program to connect to mysql database. I have put the program on both computers. What I want to do is for those two programs to see the same database that is on one computer. For them to be able to add, delete, update that 1 database. How do I do that? How do I network the mysql database? Do I also have to install wampserver on the other computer? What do I do? Please enlighten me. 

Everytime I plug my flash drive on school. It gets infected by this regsvr.exe and many others. Even if my fd is already vaccinated by panda antivirus it still gets infected even if I'm not accessing it via the computer. I just plug it in without doing anything and it still gets infected. Is it possible to avoid it when plugging your fd to an infected computer? 

How do I customize the progress bars in windows 7. Is there any SOFTWARE that can do this. Something that could change the color, or the kind of animation that it is making. 

I used pc decrapifier to uninstall lots of programs because revo uninstaller takes a lot of your time just to uninstall a single program. Can I remove the registry keys and folders left behind by pc decrapifier using revo uninstaller? Or do you know of any application that function like decrapifier and revo? 

Is this unavoidable? I make full malware and virus scans twice a month and I notice that after scanning, removing malware and rebooting windows only a black screen appears. Do you know of some ways on how to prevent this? Or solutions? 

Do I need to have a full spyware and virus scan before proceeding?What else should I do, in order to get accurate readings. 

Do you know of any application that could define the application for opening different file types? For example, setting a default application that would open .reg files. Or if there is not any then what do I do to set it? 

I want to convert my physical machine to a virtual machine using vmware converter. Here are the specs of my computer 

I tried this program called office sync but it does not work on ms office 2003. It prompted me to input the username & password in google docs but when I try to look up the document that I save 20 minutes later nothing show up in the recent documents. 

what is the service for free download manager. I think its still running in the background even if I'm not opening it. And I think it also consumes my bandwidth. What the service?so that I could stop it on services.msc 

I followed this guide from howtogeek: $URL$ I was successfully able to boot to windows 8, but now I can't boot to windows 7. I always get redirected to the screen that you see when you choose to repair Windows 7 from an install CD. The one with the choice like startup repair, command prompt, and system restore. How do I revert back to the state where I can use Windows 7? 

Is it still on the beta stage?I'm asking because I downloaded it before ,some time in december. And I just want to make sure that I download the latest one. I don't want to be downloading the same thing. So I ask where I can download the latest build? 

So how do I go about this? Is this just normal for Acer laptops after about 2 years of heavy usage (8-12 hours a day)? My usage is heavy but I normally only have a text-editor(sublime) and browser open(chrome). Here's what I got from HW monitor: 

I'm using acronis drive monitor to see if my hard drive is getting hotter. and it seems like there's no problem in temperature but I see critical events: 

I'm securing a certain file, and I cannot do so when the address bar is sitting in the file explorer. How do I disable it. I'm using windows xp. If possible I want it to be disable using regedit or gpedit, but I don't know how. I've already disable folder options using regedit so the option for hiding address bar in folder options is void. 

Is it possible to change the default page print size in Chrome? I'm printing the webpage to a pdf file and it seems that the size is letter. I want to be able to change that to A4. Or if there are any chrome extensions that you know that will make this possible. I've seen one extension but it cannot print the page to pdf since what I'm trying to print is on localhost. 

Its normal that a virus file/folder has a hidden file attribute, but others are just too sneaky that even if you set your folder options to view hidden files and folders, the file/folder which has virus can't still be seen. Is there anything, any application that can make me see these files/folders. But not making use of antivirus software. -Im just looking for alternative ways. Because using antivirus software is the traditional way to see those. 

What are the computer parts that has a unique ID? Be it software or hardware. For example, IP Address. And the MAC ID in the NIC. Unique ID's that could be used by bad sites to distinguish you from the rest of the crowd. Edit: Or anything that cannot be changed. Anything that is embedded in the hardware that cannot be changed. 

Especially in dreamweaver and photoshop. And do you know of any application that lets me jump through all the common save locations for dreamweaver. For example, I save .php files on And then I created a new site, which will has default save location to be: 

All in all, it drive c consumes 43 Gb. How long do you think it will take to convert this machine to a virtual one, that I could just bring anywhere and use my installed applications. Or do you know of a way in just making a virtual hard drive out of it? So that I could just mount it on any windows 7 system. So that I could make full use of the speed of the machine that I'm going to put it on.