A while ago, I started having problems with the install of Windows Live Messenger which came with an Aspire One netbook - video conferencing didn't work, for example. I then proceeded to attempt to "repair" Messenger, which failed. Now, I'm trying to reinstall Messenger, but I can't get it to uninstall. Here's what I tried at first: 

Where on the first line is replaced with wherever the iTunes Library is stored. (Sorry, I'm not a Mac.) To run the script, save it as "mp3.sh" in your home directory, open Terminal, and type: 

For this you'll need LAME (Lame Ain't An MP3 Encoder) installed and in your PATH. If you need any help with the script, please comment. You can download LAME for the Mac from their website - $URL$ 

Is it a fairly newer laptop? Do you maybe get a blank screen with a blinking curser? I hope this isn't your problem, but in some newer laptops the GPU screws up.... and will do everything from tell you the harddrive isn't connected right, to not booting at all... on acers you test by pressing below the windows key while you boot to put pressure on the gpu and if it's the GPU it will boot.... the problem is caused by the switch to lead free solder... it looks different when it's gotten hot enough so they aren't getting it hot enough, which leads to a bad connection... as the solder heats and cools over time the connection is damaged... If you google you might be able to find the location of the gpu in that model and put pressure (lots of it) over the gpu while you attempt to boot the computer, or just open it up and put pressure on the gpu while booting if you aren't afraid of getting electrocuted. I found that problem when I was working on a laptop I bought from craigslist that supposedly just had a failed harddrive, but it wouldn't even boot from cd to install windows on a drive I had. I closed it and set my hot gateway laptop on top of it to look up some stuff. When I was finished I tried booting the bad one and it booted (probably the heat and weight of the other laptop)... unfortunately it only booted from cd and couldn't install windows... then stopped working again... still haven't gotten around to taking a heat gun to the gpu (and got a second laptop with the same problem!) The other possibility is that the cpu or memory got bumped... remove the memory and put it back in... if that doesn't fix it do the same with the cpu... laptops - like desktops - usually have 3 reasons to not at least boot to bios: Video, CPU, Memory (otherwise it's probably the motherboard) 

This is a limitation of ADSL broadband - the A stands for "Asymmetric". The ISPs have no control over this - I hear cable/fibre-optic is much better, but I can't get that where I live (rural Scotland). Of course, the ISPs may be imposing some kind of extra cap. :) 

Try BlackViper for some good configurations of varying levels for most Windows OSs. For example, XP SP3 is here. Also, try using the Autoruns tool from Sysinternals to get rid of Adobe and QuickTime startup apps. Then, uninstall all apps you don't use. Really - do you use that Noughts-and-crosses game all that often? Finally, use lightweight equivalents of big apps - Foxit Reader instead of Adobe Reader. 

I have Power shell version 4.0 under windows server 2012.. now I run the following powershell command :- 

I have created a new user on windows server 2008, but this user is unable to login to the domain. so which permision i should grant to this user to be able to login to his machine inside the domain ? 

and I set a task within the windows server 2012 r2 task scheduler , to call te above ps1 file.now I run this task manually, but it keep showing "0x41301" which means it is still running ... although if I directly run the above code inside PowerShell window it will end in less than a second ? so why calling this ps1 using task Schuler will never ends ? --Edit-- here is the XML exported:- 

I personally think it is either option one or two, but the point is Microsoft haven't fixed it. You could try updating your graphics drivers or seeing if any patches have been issued on Windows Update, but I don't think it'll have much impact. I'm not sure about the state of play on Vista or 7, as there was a major renovation of the windowing system, and Aero works differently. Also, for me (XP Pro and part of a domain), bringing up the "Windows Security" dialog (Ctrl+Alt+Del) usually clears any floating things. 

I'm not going to just delete the Windows Live directory in \Program Files, as Messenger also installs two metric tonnes worth of registry crap as well, just like any other Microsoft product. I also, helpfully, have no System Restore points - call me old-school but I turn System Restore off as soon as I get a machine. Even more helpfully, I don't have a backup, a Windows CD, a CD drive or a spare memory stick so a format-and-reinstall is not an option. I'm running Windows XP Home Edition on an Acer Aspire One netbook - I don't imagine the detailed specs are required for this particular question. 

I want to get a list of VMS for a Hyper-V server, so I run the following command , to get the VMs details inside hyper-v server named "hyperV01":- 

so can anyone advice what is causing the above 2 errors ? second question is there a more straight forward way to pass the password inside the ? now I can pass the username as follow:- 

Can anyone advice what are the differences between these 2 fields (VMName & Name), as in my case these 2 fields appears to have exact same value for each VM ? Can i get the fully qualified name for the VM such as or it is something I need to configure on the VM in a way or another ? 

Taking apart a laptop is simple if you have a couple small screwdrivers... it's also a pain in the butt to get it apart without breaking clips as every brand of laptop comes apart differently. I love fixing laptops though! Step 1. Look on the manufacturer's website to find out what speakers your model has (or just skip this step and find your exact laptop for parts on ebay) Step 2. Find those speakers on ebay or a local used computer store. Step 3. I would have done this one for you, but you didn't say what kind of laptop it is. Google disassembly instructions for your laptop (for mine I would google "gateway md354 disassembly") Sites with images are the best. Step 4. Using the instructions from step 3, take apart your laptop and replace the old speakers with the new speakers. Step 5. Put the laptop back together, plug it in, and test the new speakers. If you don't want to deal with that, you can probably find a used computer store that will do the repair cheaper than an actual computer shop. 

I have vmware 9.0 inside my windows 7 , but suddenly my windows 7 shut down due to an error , and it restart again. But when I start my VM I got the following error :- 

I have windows XP SP2 & MSI motherboard, but i am unable to know how i can access the Boot Menu on windows start. Currently when i start my windows, i do not have the option to access the Boot Menu. I need this as i am facing a problem on my AVG anti virus and i need to disable it using a bootable USB, and currently my windows XP will keep restarting as the AVG is not working. 

I've been having an extremely odd problem with my desktop computer. It's a custom build (not built by me) running windows xp. Every so often 1 cpu (it's an amd x2) starts maxing out. When I look in the process list it's an svchost using the cpu. I can kill it and nothing closes but the cpu usage goes back to normal. Sometimes when I kill it my taskbar goes to grey and looks like windows 98, but only sometimes. Every time I kill it my sound disappears. I still get system sounds, but no game music. Oddly enough, if I kill it while playing a game, the sound doesn't stop working until after that game is closed. I did have to replace the video card a while back because of a blown cap, but it was nowhere near the sound card (although I'm guessing that may be why the ethernet card directly below the video card no longer works lol). I've ran virus scans (although my definitions are a bit out of date, but the only files I ran that could have infected it are older than the definitions) and nothing shows up. Hijack This also doesn't find anything. The computer runs fine otherwise, but considering it doesn't take long for the svchost file to come back and hog, I'm afraid that having that cpu maxed out all the time is going to wear it out, so I'd really like to get this figured out. Is this some weird undiscovered virus, a hardware problem, or a gremlin? And how do I find out what specifically is using a svchost process? I tried using process explorer but didn't get any useful information as that process didn't have anything to do with sound... and why only game sounds, music, video sounds turn off, windows says no mixer device installed, and yet I still get system sounds? There is nothing in msconfig, startup, or services that doesn't belong, and nothing was installed or changed around the time that this started (except the video card mentioned above may have been around the same time, but I don't see how the new video card drivers could cause this) And actually it can't be the sound card, because it still happens when I use a usb sound card. Also, I finally got smart after a month of this and checked... the windows audio service (or something like that) would get killed when I killed that svchost file and wasn't set to restart after a failure... I changed that and the svchost file causing the problem does NOT come back when the sound comes back... it comes back at a random time... usually within 5-15 minutes of killing the svchost file