Whenever I have a folder with videos, it shows the filenames as large icons. I prefer to show the Details view in all the folders regardless of content type. I don't want to manually change the view every time I create a new folder. I have the same issue when opening a file dialog. Is there a way to force File Explorer in Windows 8 to always display folder contents in Details view and never have to switch manually? I don't see an option for this under Folder Options. 

Does Windows 64 bit make use of dual or more cores if they exist? Regardless if software is written for more cores. 

Sometimes my Windows 7 system is accessing the hard drive heavily for several minutes and it slows down the machine considerably. Is there a tool which tells me which process is causing it? That includes if Windows is accessing the virtual memory? I tried SysInternals' DiskMon but it doesn't show useful information, like the process. The Task Manager shows some I/O counters but I still can't determine which one is doing it the most. Plus it doesn't show virtual memory access. 

Say you get 7.9, which is the maximum score with windows Experience Index, with your current hardware. Next year the hardware is faster. If you already got the max score, what does it mean to upgrade to faster hardware? Will 7.9 be an obsolete irrelevant score? Will windows not take advantage of the faster hardware? 

How to expand the size of the address bar in IE10? There's supposed to be a resizer thingy to the right of the bar but it's not there. 

I am looking for a audio/video muxer which can work without user intervention like in a command line or API. I tried Avidemux but it seems to be finicky. Sometimes it works and many times not. Is there any other tool which just works every time? I don't mind if it's commercial. 

I have a Logitech MX 1000 mouse with the latest SetPoint software. Even though I used Setpoint to set a button to do a Close action. It doesn't work with many apps. How do I make my mouse close an app using one of the programmable buttons, without clicking on the app's close icon? 

I have a computer with multiple drives in Windows 10. A friend wanted me to recover files from a dead computer so I turned off my computer, disconnected one of the non OS drives and connected the friend's drive (all drives are SATA). Booted the machine and noticed to my big surprise one of my drives (a 2TB drive) got wiped out. All the folders and files are gone! Free disk space is the same as the size of the drive. I have no idea how this happened. I didn't touch the drive. The friend's drive was visible and I was able to copy files from it. After connecting my drive back, the 2TB drive still showed no files. My next step is to use a disk recovery tool like GetMyData and I really hope it can recover the files. I won't be saving anything on it until then. Any ideas what might have happened? I didn't format anything. 

I have folders with 1000's of mp3 files. I want to delete some files for certain artists. I am using File Explorer in Windows and it's very slow. Every time I scroll the screen, it refreshes slowly. Is there a tool where I can tell it to delete all mp3's where artist name in the ID tag contains some string? 

I am a member of the administrator's group on my company's machine, logged into the domain. I can't delete, write to or make any kind of changes to a USB flash drive. Error message is "You require permission from domain\user to make changes to this file. 'domain\user' are generic terms here and it's me. I took ownership of the drive and replaced ownership tree for all the objects. It didn't help. I did the same thing under the local administrator account. The only way I can write to the drive is by logging in as the local administrator. I can see that the owner of any object is myself. Any ideas why I can't make changes to the drive? Is there a group policy that might prevent me from writing to the drive? Update: Results of icacls X:\ /save D:PAI(A;OICI;FA;;;WD)(A;OICI;FA;;;BU) 

I am planning to buy this memory. I don't understand what 9-9-9-24-2N means vs a timing like 9-9-9-20? Does it matter in performance? A related question: what's the difference between buying the above 16GB vs buying two of these? The second option is cheaper.. Is this worth it? 

I had to cold reboot my Windows XP and now the desktop background is all white with a big ecalamation mark. When I click the 'Restore my Active Desktop' button, I get a script error. There's a tip to delete the desktop.htt file under C:\Documents and Settings[username]\Application Data\Microsoft\Internet Explorer and relog in. I did that. But still same problem and that file gets recreated. Then in the display applet, the backround options in the Desktop tab are all greyed out so I can't change the background. Any more ideas? 

I tried cloning an SSD from one laptop to a similar laptop. The laptop is running Windows 7 Enterprise. The second laptop has a larger and different model SSD. Both laptops have only a single drive, not USB devices attached. After the restore, the laptop doesn't boot. I get an error "...Status: 0xc000000f Info: The best selection failed because a required device is inaccessible". I used True Image 2014 and the Windows built-in system imaging option and they both gave the same error after restoring. I did the Windows repair option and it said it couldn't fix the problem. I used bootsect.exe to write the MBR. Used bcdedit.exe and it doesn't show any 'unknown' devices. I am not sure why Windows laptop is not booting properly. This is what I want to try doing. Install Windows 7 from scratch. Then install a disk imaging software that has the capability to save the MBR and drivers and anything that is specific to the SSD. Then I want to restore the image to the SSD where it loads the stuff saved earlier during the backup. Yes it will write and wipe the Windows 7 installation. I am thinking the restore needs some help in installing stuff which make Windows work with this specific SSD. The SSD installation disk doesn't have any drives. It's a Samsung EVO drive. Any ideas if there's such imaging software or if someone has a better idea? I am going to try Paragon Disk Manager, Norton Ghost and DiskProtect and see if I have better success with these. 

Adobe Bridge is being the folder browser in Windows 8 instead of file explorer. When I double click a folder, Adobe Bridge comes up. I looked in control panel -> Folder Options. Also looked in 'Default Programs'. I can't find the setting to set the program for folder browser. 

I tried to use NotePad to open system.log and software.log in Windows and it said it couldn't open because file was in use. Is there an editor which can open such files? for Windows XP. 

Go to Run, type regedit and hit enter Go here HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Internet Explorer\Desktop\SafeMode\Components Select the value DeskHtmlVersion Select the Decimal radial button Change the value of 272 to 0 Most of the time it might take a few seconds for your background to appear and other times…you might need to restart your computer. 

Open an explorer window (open My Computer for example) Tools Folder Options View Uncheck Hide protected operating system files Now do a search for desktop.htt…it should be on your C: normally Delete any desktop.htt files you find (there could be more than one depending on how many user profiles are on the machine) They should be located in Documents and Settings\User\Application Data\Microsoft\Internet Explorer Close all windows you have open Now reboot your PC..Windows will recreate desktop.htt for you and it should work! oops…I almost forgot….go ahead a place a check back in Hide protected operating system files 

How to make Outlook email notification show in the unhidden notification area in system tray? The envelope shows up in the notification area when I maximize it but that's a problem if I get an email and I am not at the computer at the time. I need the envelope to show at all times. I am using Windows 7. How to make the envelope icon visible all the time? If there's an add-on or third party thingy, that's fine. 

The computer seems to be screwy. This happened after a Windows update which failed. I did a whole backup and it works now. 

Some of the files I copy to a USB stick seems to be corrupted? Maybe the stick is bad but I haven't used it much and want to know for sure. Is there a Windows utility to test the stick? Mark bad areas as bad so the file system doesn't save to them? I format before I copy but I still get corrupted files? Does chkdsk work on USB sticks reliably? 

There are times when instead of scrolling vertically in file explorer I accidentally move a folder to within another folder. Great! It happens so quick I don't know which folder was moved and this means I just screwed up an application installation. Is there a way to undo this operation? Or someway to disable moving of folders by default? Using Windows 7. 

I am using Windows 8.1 and I have about 30 important Windows updates. It seems I can't have any of them get updated without failing and getting a "We couldn't complete the updates.. Undoing changes". Even when I choose to update just a single update, Windows tries to update a whole bunch of them. I am sure if this because of dependencies or what. Also when I try to hide all of them, at some point they come back and Windows shows them again and the cycle repeats. I also used a tool from Microsoft which supposedly fixes Windows update issues. It reports it fixed errors but every time I run it, it says it fixed errors. If it fixed the errors then why is it still saying it fixed errors after each run. It doesn't matter how many times I run it or if reboot. I feel it's not a reliable tool. What's the process to troubleshoot the failed updates? I feel the updates are just piling up over time and I am stuck. I want either the updates to be hidden for good (unless I specifically show them again) or get installed correctly. 

Using Windows XP. File Explorer stops deleting files when it hits a file which is use. Is there a way to make it skip all files which are in use and just delete the others? If you will recommend a file explorer alternative, please mention the free one(s).