Open regedit.exe Navigate to: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment What's the type of "Path" registry key? If it's not not REG_EXPAND_SZ then this could be the problem. You can change it to REG_EXPAND_SZ by doing this: 

Is it possible to extract images from Lightroom's preview cache? For example if I lose some of the original image files before weekly backup. JPEG Preview is set to Medium size so I would not get the full images but it'd be better than nothing. I'm using version 2.6 

You can clear all recent Run dialog entries without manually modifying the registry or installing additional programs. See $URL$ for walkthrough /w screenshots. 

I'm using Windows Media Player 12 on Windows 7. When I open a video file then it by default only shows the current position (time). If I click on it once then it changes to format Current Time / Total Time 

I have noticed that the window menu for most windows look like standard menus, while the window menu for the command processor (cmd.exe) look different. I assumed that cmd.exe was providing custom-made menus, until I started seeing the same type of menu in Chrome. Here are two images: Standard Menu Different Menu Here are two more images: Standard Menu in Chrome Different Menu in Chrome Right clicking anywhere on a webpage opened in Chrome brings up a menu similar to the "different menu". What causes these two styles of windows? I am running Windows Vista 32-bit. Thanks! By The Way: I also have a Windows 7 64-bit computer. On that computer, cmd.exe's window menu is the "Standard" one, not "Different". It seems Microsoft must have fixed it. I haven't seen how the Chrome menu looks on Win7 64-bit yet. Edit: I have now figured out what the problem was. The problem was the way the menu items were being added and removed. I found when I disabled AdBlock: Chrome's menus went back to the "Standard" style. So I am asking now, more specifically, what causes this change? What legacy or backwards-compatible code causes this to happen? (I will put it in a new question on StackOverflow if need be.) 

No. It will work from Windows 8 as well without Pro version because you are providing domain credentials to VPN connection not to log into your machine. Those two features mean that your machine could be part of Windows domain in your own network and managed through group policies. 

I downloaded trial version of HD Tune Pro and I'm using it to benchmark my hard drives. In Health tab of SSD I found Raw Read Error Rate property. What does this property say about my hard drive? 

I'm unable to connect default metro applications (Mail, Calendar and Poeple) to corporate Exchange server. I run the app and in setting select Add account > Outlook account. I fill the email and the password and after about half a minute I receive: 

I know that installing a package through APT (apt-get or aptitude for my computer) will automatically install the appropriate man pages and update the man database. When I want to build the same packages, however, no man page is installed and I cannot use man for that program. How do I get the man pages for software I have compiled? (I am running Ubuntu 10.10). 

to start CompizConfig Settings Manager works and CCSM works beautifully. When I attempt to start Compiz itself, however, I get this: 

Assuming you are asking about symlinking executables in general, this should automatically work out of the box. Make sure /usr/bin/nodejs is executable by everybody, and restart the terminal. In any case, calling directly from anywhere in a terminal should work normally. If appears to execute properly but NodeJs itself does not like being called as instead of , that's a different problem. 

I have Asus P6T Deluxe V2 motherboard with integrated HDD controller providing 6 SATA II (3 Gb/s) ports. I use this controller for 2 SSDs and 4 HDDs. SSDs and one HDD are for host system (Windows 7 Ultimate x64). Remaining hard drives store virtual machines (VirtualBox). I sometimes need to run multiple virtual machines to simulate some environment. I noticed that "speed" of those machines drops if I run multiple of them in the same time (they still have same amount of RAM and CPU cores assigned) and I also noticed heavy disk usage. I understand that this can happen if I run two machines from the same drive but it looks like machines running from different drives somehow share the throughput as well. Is my suspicion correct or should I look for problem elsewhere? I wonder what benefits will be to use some separate specialized HDD controller - for example some Adaptec device like 6405E. I don't necessarily need RAID at the moment but it can be useful option for future - I think I'm looking for increasing performance and throughput of separate drives. I also don't understand controller's features. What does port mean? Some devices offer 4, 8 or more ports but also mentions expanders to connect tens or hundreds of HDDs. Does it mean that port is single dedicated bus which can be shared (bandwith can be shared) among multiple HDDs (in case of expander)? How many these dedicated "ports" are available in integrated controllers? The mentioned controller offers 6 Gb/s ports. Does it mean that I will be able to use full speed of SATA III drives? The separate controller is quite expensive device. Will it improve my experience (performance, data throughput) in mentioned scenario? Will it improve my day to day experience with my computer used for everything from browsing Internet to play games or develop applications? In short - does it worth to invest into such device if the mentioned scenario is not the main usage of my computer? 

gci is an alias of Get-ChildItem - enter the path to your folder here. If you have subfolders then add -Recurse after the path ? is an alias of Where-Object - here we loop through the items and check it is NOT a folder and its name ends with "_2" (excluding the file extension). ren - Rename-Item - finally we rename the files that passed the Where-Object filter. Using Substring we just cut off the two last characters of the filename. 

That's it. Users won't see option anymore. This will also disable the Save as XPS option but in your case it's probably acceptable. 

Looks like the current version of Camtasia Studio does not have such a feature. But you can take advantage of Windows Magnifer tool to achieve it. Windows Vista and 7: 

What more info do I need to provide? I'm not sure I know the domain, server or user name - I'm using only corporate email to log everywhere and it is enough. Moreover I'm also running Outlook 2013 Preview on the same box and it connected with just an email and password without any problem. I'm running Windows 8 Enterprise RTM from a flash drive (Windows-To-Go) and I'm logging with personal Microsoft account to computer. 

OCZ tool shows only . But what does Data column in HD Tune mean? Why the description says that disk had 89.970.873 read errors? It is new disk. I installed it yesterday and it is passing all diagnostic tests in SeaTools, Performance tests in HD Tune Pro and common check in Chkdsk. 

I have noticed that those strange symbols at the end change every time I try to run Compiz. The value of the environment variable DISPLAY is :0. Any ideas on why this may be happening? Thanks! (I'm not sure if this question is in the right place) 

I figured it out. I used GDB to trace the message being outputted - it turns out that Compiz expects a CLI argument "--display" and a value for (in this case, $DISPLAY or ":0"), which I wasn't providing. However, other problems prevented me from using Compiz, so I am removing it. I am currently in the process of getting Compiz 0.9.2 through the Unity PPA on my Ubuntu system; if that doesn't work, I'll downgrade back to 0.8.x.