Your hunch is correct; the monitor is essentially shutting off the handshake on that HDMI channel when you switch the input. Windows 7 sees this as "There is no longer a monitor connected here", at which point it disables that output. Since that screen no longer exists, everything that was on it has to go SOMEWHERE, so it shuffles everything onto your remaining displays, and it is not graceful. When the display returns, Windows 7 will remember how you had things arranged to some extent, but it's not going to shuffle your windows back around (you may have closed or opened or otherwise moved them in the interim, after all!). There's nothing you can do with display drivers that can fix this; it's the behavior of the operating system and while it's inconvenient for your situation it makes sense. (The alternative is having things on monitors that don't actually exist, which XP did sometimes and let me tell you it was a nightmare.) There may be some third party software that can force this to not occur, but I don't know of any offhand and I suspect you'd run the risk of causing other problems. (If anybody can actually post any I'll be glad to upvote those answers.) 

I suspect you could probably do four 1920x1200 monitors daisy-chained as well (the spec should allow it, but as it doesn't officially support that there's no guarantee). You should be able to do two 2560x1600 in that manner, but no more. To do the multi-stream daisychaining, you'll either need DisplayPort hubs (supposedly these exist but I have yet to actually see one for sale!) or supported monitors - these will have a "DisplayPort out" for the upstream connection and are only just really hitting the market now. Those U2410s you have are very nice though, so I might be hard pressed to suggest you replace them with U2413s (recently announced, which should support this). If you do have the proper hardware, it's as simple as daisy-chaining four monitors to the DisplayPort and the fifth to the DVI. 

What neurolysis says USED to be the case. In practice, I cut this on all the time in Windows 7 - it's painfully simple and non-complex compared to Windows XP to go from IDE to AHCI. If you want to change 7 from IDE to AHCI, all you need to do before you change the BIOS setting is look in the registry at HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\services\msahci and change the 'Start' key to 0. (If an AHCI driver has never run on this machine it's probably 3.) The first time the machine boots in an AHCI controller mode it should load the default AHCI driver properly and prompt for a reboot. Note, however, that depending on your drivers and controller the REVERSE is not always true - it may work just fine if you change from AHCI to IDE, or you may get bluescreens. (I've never had occassion to fix one of those so I couldn't tell you how.) EDIT: I would just add that I have no experience with this in Vista but I suspect it works much like 7. In XP, changing this is a huge undertaking that involves a major registry hack tailored to your specific hardware, and a reinstall is almost always simpler unless you're going to be doing a dozen identical machines or so. DOUBLEEDIT: There is a very minute chance of failure here in the event that you have a really strange motherboard that won't work properly with the default MSAHCI driver and will ONLY use its own. Try installing it first if that's the case. (I have done this on dozens of current-gen boards and NEVER seen one that wouldn't run with the baked in driver, and in fact it benchmarks very well.) 

Is there a way to prime Outlook's local address cache with names/email addresses from the local address book? It's a real hassle when, for example, you move a user from another email client to Outlook and they have to either type in or look up the recipient's name the first time they email that person. It's so time consuming. Update: Is the process different for Exchange mailboxes vs. IMAP? 

The Send Page by Email Firefox extension seems to only send X bytes of a web page. Or some portion. UPDATE: I was incorrect. The limitation is that sendemail.exe (which the extension uses to send the email has a 16k limit on the body text passed in.) Where I don't have Firefox, I can only send the link, so no full text search at all in those cases. 

I'm looking to simultaneously send the same email to multiple recipients. Let's say I want to email John and Bill the same email, I want them to be in the "To:" field, but I don't want them to see each other in the address list. I don't want to bcc them both because then they see they are bcc'd. I want them to each get their own copy of the identical email and to have 2 emails in my sent folder - one for each of them. Essentially I want the same result as if I separately sent them each the identical email, but I'd like to do it in fewer steps. Can I accomplish this either natively or with a plug-in, or some pre-existing code? NOTE: I am looking to do this interactively (in real time), not in batch. 

I'm using Outlook 2007 with IMAP. I've configured sent messages to be put in the server-based "Sent" folder of my IMAP account. When I send emails, the email will briefly appear in the Sent messages folder and then disappear. They might appear for just a few seconds up to an hour or so. By "disappear" I mean that the messages are no longer in the list, and doing a search across all folders (I created a Search Folder to search for all messages) the message does not come up at all. I had a number of rules but I disabled them all and the problem still occurs. In addition I disabled AutoArchiving and ensured that there were no filters on the Sent folder. 

As per your clarification that you simply mean the jumper is missing, to my knowledge on the majority of modern motherboards, this simply doesn't matter. The two pins that you bridge to trip the RTC clear are wired, but the third pin doesn't really do anything and is simply there so that the jumper can remain in the machine. That said, for the issues you're having it couldn't hurt to reset the CMOS and then immediately do a clean flash of the newest BIOS revision and reset your settings from scratch. In the absence of a jumper, you can simply bridge the two pins for a few seconds with a screwdriver or pocketknife. 

Unless "lengthy" = "days and days", not really, no. Even then I wouldn't worry about it unless it's a really old/heavily used/extremely cheap drive. 

One other big problem is partition alignment - Windows XP aligns to old disk style by default, but SSDs need 4KB alignment internally. Otherwise you're doubling the volume of writes because a lot of things will overlap internally. (I'm not really qualified to talk about this at extensive length, so maybe somebody can elaborate at this - it's not really my area of expertise.) That said, I am still fairly surprised if your disks are failing this fast. SSDs can be pretty failure prone unless you're careful about what you buy - this wouldn't surprise me nearly as much from OCZ or Crucial SSDs as it would from Intel ones (which I can vouch for in dozens on XP machines with no problem). My personal opinion? XP may not be helping, but it's probably mostly a red herring. 

In response to Update II - video acceleration is always slowed down on the non-primary monitors. It looks like either your graphics cards, or the video driver, or some combination of factors are making it slow enough to be unpleasant on other displays. This is not entirely unexpected...more details about the machine might reveal a workaround, though. 

VGA is video only. I can't possibly think of any use for the pictured adapter, except possibly with some non-standard specialty equipment that sends signals on pins where they shouldn't be. For specificity's sake: 

On most ThinkPads, Fn+F7 will toggle through display modes to turn on/off external monitors. It should remember that when the external is lit, you want it to be the primary - so you've got this down to a few keystrokes. (You may need the OEM Hotkey or Presentation Director apps installed.) 

I contacted LogMeIn customer service and was surprised to find out that LogMeIn Free is indeed licensed for corporate use. Of course has the limited feature set which could limit its usefulness in a company environment but if all you need are the basics then you're all good. 

There's a tool called ReliefJet Essentials which does this. The feature is called "Disable or Enable Warnings" and is at $URL$ 

The site's logon process is distributed between multiple pages so I need to be able to start the session manually with my web browser, authenticate, then launch the spider and give it access to the cookies. Many of the links execute Javascript and then return content. Many of the links return PDF documents (some spiders do support this). 

Can Outlook 2007/2010 be configured to not warn me if the subject is blank? I want to disable the prompt. 

I'd like to make a rule such that if an email is moved or copied into Folder1 (where Folder1 is not the Inbox) the action is triggered. For example, if I move an email into Folder1 I might want it to be copied to Folder2. 

I'm looking for a program to spider a web site* and download the content to disk. I've got the following requirements though which appear to trip up the programs I've tried: 

Realizing that the unattended/silent install worked (since that's what the System Update utility does), I ran the driver install in unattended mode rather than the default interactive mode: setup.exe -install I rebooted when it completed and it worked! 

This might work as-is with no firewall changes (except perhaps permitting http and https Internet access for the static IP addresses of the machines running LogMeIn). Firewalls that are configured securely do not permit inbound connections that originate from outside the firewall. The way LogMeIn works is that the LogMeIn client that's installed on the internal PCs initate an outbound connection to the LogMeIn servers (the broker) over https. Given that it's https (or http) this traffic is indistinguishable from normal web browsing. When the external user goes to the LogMeIn web site to connect to an internal PC, the external user rides the https connection that was initiated by the inside client. Since the inside client initiated the connection, all is good. Like I said above, you may need to have your firewall person add the addresses of the inside PCs to the firewall, but again it's all over https and looks like web traffic. Prior to any changes I'd test from a PC that already has Internet access and see what you get. Update: This support article on the LogMeIn web site seems to confirm the above. $URL$ It does make a good point that if there's a firewall (Windows firewall or other) on the internal PCs you may need to grant access to the LogMeIn executables, however this is unrelated to the network firewall piece. Hope this helps. 

Unfortunately, there is no option in FreeCommander to hide file extensions. (I personally have never had a problem with this, but I was surprised when I noticed you could set up a column for file extension but not filename sans extension.) 

Is this Windows 7? There was actually a bug with this that was addressed with an optional Windows Update a while back - make sure it's installed. $URL$ EDIT: Actually, now that I look, this is only a problem if it's bigger than 32GB, but there's no telling how their rounding works so it's worth a shot. Also, this answer might help somebody else out down the road...haha! 

What I typically do is install Windows XP with any valid key, then call up the activation hotline. Tell them you're installing a downgrade, and they typically give you an activation code without even asking for your product key - Microsoft really doesn't seem to care about XP anymore. There may be a way to do this that doesn't involve 5 minutes of shouting at the automated phone system to get a live support agent, but I'm not aware of an easy one. (Disclaimer: I am located in the US. YMMV.) 

That capacitor has blown, probably it's suffering from the dreaded capacitor plague. What you're smelling and seeing is the electrolyte that's leaked out. Depending on what the capacitor in question is actually doing, you may not see an immediate impact (as you noticed), but things will degrade, and what's worse is that the other capacitors are likely to start failing shortly. You could solder in replacements, but it's probably just best to replace the power supply entirely. 

I have not tried this exact combination of GPUs, but I will say that many laptops have trouble with GPUs from the same vendor in an eGPU scenario like this. I can vouch for having seen this issue on multiple Thinkpads. It seems to be less of a driver problem and more of a firmware problem - Windows will give a complaint along these lines, but it's not really something that drivers will fix. In light of this, I doubt there's any easy workaround to get that HD 6570 working, but an Nvidia card would probably work just fine. It's also possible that it's an issue with the onboard memory of the card - I have seen certain laptops with firmware such that the BIOS can't properly allocate memory for an additional GPU beyond a certain amount (usually 256 or 512MB). I can't say I've heard of the T60 doing this, but then I've never tried. There's no workaround for this either short of using a different card. 

The MSI Z97 GAMING 7 mainboard has three different USB 3.0 controllers, one embedded Intel, and two AsMedia chips. The board is about 4 years old, and USB 3.0 in that time frame might have some "anomalies" that might require special treatment. I would strongly suggest to go to the original manufacturer (MSI) and download all drivers from their website. 

One HDMI port == one logical monitor for OS. You can't get two different monitors on one HDMI port. However, you can purchase a device that combines two identical monitors into one, like this one DualHead2o monitor 

Try to use a very basic formatting of the USB drive, FAT32, formatted under Windows. BIOS/UEFI don't like odd partitions from Linux or Apple, and most other exotic formats. 

USB is designed to keep port power always ON. The power management is accomplished by USB devices that must switch into lower power mode in 10ms after seeing USB bus SUSPEND state. Therefore you should not expect VBUS to go off ever, except when the USB host (typically a laptop) does not trust USB devices and turns VBUS power off when go asleep. It is called "cold SUSPEND", as opposed to the normal USB "hot SUSPEND". Therefore, the normal way for your LED strip to be off is if you have the lights behind a full-function USB device, and the device has a MOSFET to turn power to your LED off when it senses the USB SUSPEND state. Alternatively you can have VBUS turned OFF only if (1) you have a good hub that has dedicated port power control high-side switches, and (2) you have an application that can issue ClearPortFeature(PORT_POWER) command to the port. And then turn the port on on system resume. If you don't have any of the above (good hubs are rare and expensive, and software to control USB ports does not legally exists), you are out of luck. 

I don't believe that HDMI or any other copper cables can help you with 35m distance. But for USB3 speed you can get an optical connection made by Corning Communication. It will be pricey though for a 50m link. EDIT: be aware that the Corning extension can't supply much power, so the device end must be self-powered (have a wall AC-DC adapter). 

The enclosure says for 2.5" IDE drives. The 2.5" formfactor of HDDs is intended for use in laptops, where the major peripheral power is 5V DC. Therefore it is very likely that the external power source is 5V, and much less likely to be 12V. You can do two things. First connect the enclosure to 5V wall AC adaper (or into anything 5V) with at least 2A rating, and see if will start working. Usually lower voltage will not harm devices designed for 12V. Second, open the enclosure and find the DC power requirements written on the drive itself. If it lists only "DC+5V 0.7A" or something, it is definitely for a 5V external supply. For more confidence, check if the USB bridge board has any additional small chips surrounded by sizeable inductors and sizeable caps in the vicinity of power jack. There should be something like a small 5V-3.3V LDO to power the main IC, but not any switching power supply for 12V-5V DC-DC conversion. Also, this kind of old devices usually came with a special Y-split cable, to use two USB ports as a beefed-up power supply. Keep in mind that the spin-up phase of old IDE HDDs might need about 1.8-2A of current for first several seconds, and if the VBUS voltage droops during the start, the electronics might fail to initialize the drive properly, and there will be no USB connection.