That is actually undefined. Some switches will drop the tagged frames as malformed or giants, some switches will strip the tags, and some switches will simply pass the frames. 

It because you can't start the network for 40 hosts immediately after the network for four hosts. If the network for four hosts is , the network for 40 hosts would need to start at . That means you have dead addresses from to . On the other hand, if the network for 40 hosts is , the network for 4 hosts can be , leaving no dead addresses in between. 

A router is just a host on a network that knows how to communicate with other networks. A host needs to have a gateway (router) on its network to be able to communicate with devices on a different network. Link-local addresses are still IP addresses. IPv6 allows, even requires, multiple IP networks on a single interface. A router could be on any or all of those networks. Yes, you can connect routers with only link-local addresses, but that really complicates support and troubleshooting. For example, you cannot ping a router interface that only has a link-local address from a different network. Based on many of the IPv6 protocols, you should really only use networks, except for point-to-point networks () and loopbacks (). Using networks of other sizes breaks some things in IPv6. See RFC 5375, IPv6 Unicast Address Assignment Considerations, Appendix B. Considerations for Subnet Prefixes Different than /64 and RFC 7421, Analysis of the 64-bit Boundary in IPv6 Addressing among other sources. 

I don't think you really understand that the Internet is just a collection of many ISPs which connect to other ISPs. Each ISP has its own policies. Also, IP has a single source and a single destination address for each IP packet. Actual broadcasts, from the perspective of IP (broadcast destination address), are restricted to a single broadcast domain, and a broadcast cannot cross a router. IP does have multicast which is used with a single source, multiple receivers. Like broadcast, multicast is normally restricted to a single broadcast domain. To get around that, multicast routing was developed, but it is different than regular IP routing. With multicast, each and every router in a path from source to destination must be configured for multicast with the same multicast policies. Also, you would end up forcing ISPs to either always carry multicast traffic for which it may have no users (wastes a lot of precious bandwidth and the ISPs will never agree to this), or the ISPs will need to purchase and maintain special equipment just for the multicast traffic. 

It is unlikely that the repeater will be a PoE device, except that it may power itself with PoE. In any case, your laptop should have no problem because you can plug it into a PoE switch port and not fry it. PoE will not be sent unless the end-device requests it. This was a primary concern when the PoE standards were originally created. 

Your Cisco configuration is incorrect for NAT. It should not work at all. The problem is that you have configured on the layer-2 interfaces ( and ) instead of the layer-3 interfaces ( and ). Also, you should not use the command on a router that is routing because it is the gateway. Instead, use a static default route, which you have also configured. Try something like: 

If you mask both addresses with the shortest mask, you will find out if they share a common network. This is the very basis for IP addressing (both IPv4 and IPv6). Even hosts do this to determine if a destination address is in the same network as the host itself. A host needs to know if it can send traffic directly to the destination (same network), or if it must send it to its configured gateway (different network). There is an excellent answer to this question that explains how to do IP math. There is also an answer on Server Fault that gives a demonstration of checking two addresses to determine if there is a common network. In your case: 

Among the other routers reporting an Advertised Distance, your router will compare all the Advertised Distances to the Feasible Distance. Any routers with an Advertised Distance less than the Feasible Distance will become Feasible Successors, and the router with the best Advertised Distance will be the Successor. If there are no routers reporting an Advertised Distance less than the Feasible Distance, there will be no Successors or Feasible Successors. Your problem with the two different values is that they are two different things. The first is the Feasible Distance, which may be the best metric for the route reported at the time when the route became active, but it may no longer be the metric to the destination (the original best path may be down, or something may have changed on the path, e.g. using the or interface commands). The second number is the metric to the destination. 

You could always use logical subinterfaces on a physical routed interface to get more interfaces for experimenting in GNS3. 

For your ASR 903, using ACLs is restricted to ingress policies. See Quality of Service Configuration Guidelines for Cisco ASR 900 Router Series: 

A LAN is a layer-2 network, and all hosts on a LAN are peers. Routers route between networks, not from a LAN back to the same LAN. Switches and WAPs are bridges that operate on layer-2 LANs, and neither requires a router unless the hosts need to communicate to/from a different LAN. 

Indoor UTP cabling is not at all suitable for outdoor use. It cannot tolerate any moisture. Category-6 cabling is difficult for even professionals to install and terminate properly in order to pass the Category-6 test suite. OSP (Outside Plant) cabling should only be done by a professional. There life and safety concerns. You must have proper grounding and bonding at both ends (lightning does travel through the ground). Buried cable must either be in conduit, or be specifically designed for direct burial. It must be buried at least 24" or below the frost line, whichever is deeper, because the ground does move. 

Cisco routers can be configured to support RSVP. RSVP would need to be configured on all the routers in a path from one endpoint to the other endpoint. This Cisco document may be useful to you: Configuring RSVP, or you can search the Internet for "Cisco RSVP". Once RSVP is properly configured on the routers, it is completely up to the applications and OSes on the endpoints as to whether or not it is used. This is beyond the scope of this site. 

Your proposed gateway () is not on the same network () as the hosts which will use it. Your host gateway needs to be set in the same network as the host is. The host gateway is used to send traffic destined to a different network because the host doesn't know how to get to the different network. How do you send traffic destined for a different network to a gateway on a different network if you don't know how to get to the different network in the first place? 

An IP phone through which you connect a PC is a switch. Depending on how you have things configured, you will either trunk VoIP and data VLANs to the phone (recommended), or you will have a single VLAN for both VoIP and data (not recommended). In either case, the phone has an integrated switch to allow the PC to communicate with the rest of the network. 

Based on your configuration commands, I assume you are using a Cisco router. Cisco has a document which describes all of this and how to configure multicast routing. 

Most ping programs run the ping several times, and they return a round-trip ICMP network latency. The Ping program usually gives you the number of packets sent, received, lost, and the loss percent, along with the lowest, highest, and average ping latency. Unfortunately, this is often confused with a real network latency, but the two may not be related on a network with multiple hops, especially the Internet where ICMP is often delayed or rerouted, unlike other traffic. ICMP is not the protocol used for most data communications, and the latency returned by ping may not reflect any other application latency. Bandwidth is only indirectly related to latency. The bandwidth on an unloaded network has nothing at all to do with the latency. The real network latency is due mostly to network congestion, and bandwidth plays the largest part in that for busy networks. Latency reflect the aggregation of distance latency, and the latency added by network devices in the path. The largest component of the latency is by the network devices, due to congestion on the network, and a busy connection causes congestion. 

Are you properly connecting pairs (1-2, 3-6, 4-5, 7-8)? Based on your picture, you are not doing this correctly. You are not properly maintaining the pairs. You must minimize what is untwisted. Horizontal cable must be solid-core cable (maximum 90 meters), and it punches down to wallplates. Solid-core cable has better performance characteristics, but it is very fragile. It has a maximum pulling tension, and a minimum bend radius, and exceeding either of those can permanently ruin the cable. Horizontal cable is required to be run as a straight-through cable. Patch cords should be stranded cable, and you need the correct connectors for stranded cable. The total length of the stranded patch cords in a cable run cannot exceed 10 meters (usually 5 meters on each end. Stranded cable has poor performance characteristics, but it is flexible. If you need a crossover cable (fairly rare since most modern equipment has Auto-MDX), then you do this as a patch cord at one end of the cable run. A simple wiremap and electrical connectivity is not enough to guarantee that a cable will work. There are many performance characteristics that need to meet the specifications. It is easy to get a cable that seems to work, but it actually slows the network because of bad frames that cause retransmissions. The equipment to properly test a cable run is very expensive. 

That router, apparently, only does port based VLANs, not 802.1Q trunks. You either need a different router which can do 802.1Q trunks, or you need to get a layer-3 switch which can connect to this router via a point-to-point routed link. You are trying to use the equipment you have in a way it wasn't designed to be used. You don't really give all the specifications for what you are trying to do. A layer-3 switch could work; you could get a router that supports trunking; you could get a router with enough ports, etc. You need to decide how you want to design the network, first, then buy equipment which supports your design. It seems you did that backwards (using the wrong tools for the job; don't use a screwdriver to drive nails). EDIT based on your comment: A layer-3 switch as a distribution switch is certainly a viable solution. You can set it up to trunk the correct VLANs to the various access switches. The VLANs defined in the Layer-3 switch will have the gateway addresses for the VLANs, and, probably, a static route to the WAN router. You should set up a point-to-point routed link between the layer-3 switch and the WAN router. If the WAN router is the DHCP server, you will need to set up a relay for that on the layer-3 switch for each of the VLANs using DHCP.