I have three different kinds of rectangles. Black, white and blue rectangles. The rectangles are moving and can collide with each other. But with one exception, the blue rectangle can collide normally with the black rectangle, but the blue rectangle should move through the white rectangle if it's touching the white rectangle. The white and black rectangles can collide normally. How can I do that? In the moment, the blue rectangle isn't moving through the white rectangle if it's touching the white rectangle. What can I do so that the blue rectangle can move through the white rectangle, but not through the black rectangle? I solved the problem with CollisionWidth. For expamle: Body.CollisionWidth = Categorie.Cat5 In this case, the body just collides with bodies which have the CollisionCategorie 5. 

I already tried to support different screen resolutions with scaling the sprites. But if I scale my sprites from 800x480 to 1920x1080 pixel, then the sprites look blurry. I want to use different sprites for each resolution to avoid the blurry effect. How can my game choose the right sprite for each resolution? How can I do that? How can I calculate the right measures for every sprite? For example, I use a 64x25 pixel sprite with a 800x480 pixel resolution. If I change the resolution to 1280x720, what should then be the measures of the sprite? Can I calculate the measures like this? sprite measures(1280x720): Width = 1.5f*64= 96, Height = 1.5fx25= 37,5 Should I round up or round down the height(37,5 pixel) of the sprite? I create a Windows Phone game with Monogame, and I want to support every resolution from 800x480 to 1920x1080 pixel without scaling. 

UPDATE: I tried to solve the problem like described in Gamefreak0's answer, but it's not working. I created a ShadowChecker object and I check in a foreach-loop if it collides with a platform. If it collides, the variable ShadowPosition gets changed. But it's not working correctly. I made a picture, and in this picture you see that the shadow isn't on a platform. Why is the shadow not getting drawn on the pink platform? The character(black rectangle) is above the pink platform, so the shadow should be on the pink platform. 

In your render method check if the world is locked, with world.islocked(), if it isn´t locked, and call immediatly the destroy body. I suppose that you error is an assertion from Box2D 

As Byte56 said, in libGDX you cannot play videos :( so i did this: I created a new activity "SplashScreen" 

I override resume() in the class tha extends Game in libgdx, and when i press the home button and enter the app again it executes and it enters that method. 

The error says it all, you need to check if the world is locked in the moment that you want to remove the body 

I am going to use Cocos2d-x to make a game for Android and ios, but my question is, do I use the Lua integration or only c++, I see Lua useful here because the compilation thing. Or do I use only Lua for the configuration, save data and things in runtime? I don´t know if using Lua for the whole game is the right thing :/ Can anyone help me with this question and why use it or not? Thanks 

I am trying to make an object child of a Group, but this object has a draw method that calls opengl to draw in the screen. Its class its this 

In the "onCompletion" method, I use the intent to call my new activity where the "initialize" call for the libGDX engine to work And a new layout for the videoView 

Is there a way to scale the bodies made from vertexes (like a guitar), i was trying to multiply each vertex point by the scale value but c++ mark an assertion failed, is there a mehtod to do this? I have done it, but i want to make a mirror body, but i cant do it :/ just multplying it by -1 or 1 it doesnt run :/ 

The type of gl is GL10 Although the first error occurs when it is loading :/ Here is my logcat output 

He doesn't give a concrete example of this though. Does this mean I would want to add 2^32 to the game clock value that I store at the beginning of each frame? Or is there a way to actually set the clock in Windows so that the numbers start at 2^32? 

I'm reading a fantastic article about game timer precision and here is a quote about 2/3 of the way into the article: 

$URL$ Here's a link to a few tutorials that show how to use OpenGL in LISP. Beyond that, so long as you are practicing, you should be able to structure some samples and eventually some games once you learn how to use OpenGL properly. Also, though they are old, the old NeHe tutorials at $URL$ have some LISP translation of at least their earliest tutorials. 

The DXUT Framework requires you to define a number of functions in order to plug into it. Each of those names - IsD3D9DeviceAcceptable, OnD3D9LostDevice, ModifyDeviceSettings, and OnFrameMove - are functions that YOU need to define in your code. The signatures are as follows: 

Let's say you wanted it to spin 360 degrees in one second. Let's also say that iTime determines how many seconds since the function was called. So if iTime was .01 then 1/100 of a second had passed since the last time the function was called. Then you would use iTime / 360 to figure out how much rotation you'd need to apply. 

Your question is general enough that there's probably no definitive answer to it. I think you could find the answer in the book Game Coding Complete though. It describes a process manager that allows you to chain processes together, so that once you achieve a step in a mission the next one would automatically activate. They discuss how you could even make a C# tool that would let you drag and drop to create mission trees in this manner. Might be the kind of architecture you're looking for. 

But it's still not working. I get the following result if I don't use scaling: $URL$ Why is the DebugView drawn on another position than the sprites? I found out that if I change something in this code block, then the DebugView is drawn on another position, but I don't know how to change this code block so that the DebugView is drawn on the correct position(on the same position as their corresponding sprites). I know that it's not working because I use a Camera class, but how should I change this code block so that it works with the Camera class? 

UPDATE: I changed my code and tried it without scaling the sprites and Farseer objects. In addition, I changed my code in the Camera class to: 

Mario game that uses parallax scrolling: $URL$ I want to create a Windows Phone jump-and-run game with parallax scrolling. The parallax scrolling should be like in this Mario game. The character should be centered in the viewport. I use the code of this tutorial to create the camera and parallax scrolling: $URL$ I can zoom in and zoom out with the camera and the player(basketball) is in the center of the viewport, but parallax scrolling isn’t working correctly on every Windows Phone resolution. I get different results on every resolution. The backgrounds look different on every resolution. For example: WVGA emulator(resolution: 800x480pixel): $URL$ 720p emulator(resolution: 1280x720pixel): $URL$ If you compare both pictures, you see that the backgrounds are not on the same place on both resolutions when the basketball touches the orange rectangle. Why are the background layers not on the same place in both pictures? I use the same sprites and same coordinates for the sprites on every Windows Phone resolution. In the WVGA picture, I just zoomed out with the camera so that you can see the entire background. How can I create a Windows Phone game that uses parallax scrolling and looks on every resolution the same? The background layers should be on the same place on every resolution. 

The problem its that when i use opengl with parent, it resets all the other chldren to position 0,0 and the opengl renderer paints the square in the exact position of the screen and not relative to the parent. I tried using batch.enableBlending() and batch.disableBlending() that fixes the position problem of the other children, but not the relative position of the opengl drawing and it also puts alpha to the glDrawing. What am i doing wrong?:/ 

I have tried to use the facebook sdk in libgdx with callbacks, but it never enters the authetication listeners, so the user never is logged in, it permits the authorization for the facebook app but it never implements the authentication interfaces :( Is there a way to use it? 

Is there a way to play videos with LibGDX? I want to put a video as my splash screen in Android, but I dont want to use the Android SDK, because I am using LibGDX and I am almost finished :/ 

I am using BitmapFonts, LabelStyles and Labels for my texts. I want to resize some labels, so i use this. 

I want to apply the alpha that it gets from the method, but theres is not overload from the SpriteBatch class that takes the alpha value, is there some wey to apply it? (i did it this way, because this are animation, and i wanted to control them) in my static ones i apply 

I am having a weird error when uploading my game in the phones. E/Adreno200-EGL(5128): qeglDrvAPI_eglGetConfigAttrib:484>: EGL_BAD_ATTRIBUTE I am uploading the textures with AssetManager. I am using OpenGL 1.0. It begans to upload the textures, but when it is about to finish uploading them, it finishes unexpectedly without any message in logcat. Any ideas what is happening? When I updated my xperia ray to ics it began having this problem And when it loads, and I navigate through screens I get this in logcat <qgl2DrvAPI_glClear:33>: GL_INVALID_VALUE This is my line using the clear 

So in the first function you determine if the d3d9 device will work for your program or not, and return true if it does. In the second you tell it what to do if it loses the device (if someone minimizes the screen for instance). In the third you allow the user to change the device settings, and.... I'm actually not too sure about the fourth, I use DXUTOnFrameRender instead. It's annoying that Microsoft took down the documentation for the DXUT library. If you Google any of those function names you'll find the Japanese version of MSDN, which somehow survived the purge. If you really want a complete example of the DXUT library in use, try the Game Coding Complete code: $URL$ The file GameCode4.cpp is the initializer, where they use these function declarations just like you typed them in. The bodies of the user-defined functions are in gamecode.cpp and gamecode.h I believe the DXUT tutorials are also in the DirectX SDK for DX9 

Lots of answers here, but I want to chime in with my personal experience. I'm in the grad program at DePaul University in Chicago. They have a number of degrees, but one of them is Computer Game Development. In my personal experience, this program is spectacular and I can personally vouch for it to anyone who is considering DePaul. The main reason is that the degree is teaching game programming from a low level. It teaches the ins and outs of C++, to the point that I'm referring to the spec rather than online tutorials. It teaches OpenGL, both fixed and programmable pipeline. The goal of the program is to make you an excellent problem solver in the framework of video games. The people who leave this school can dig into call stacks, disassembly, and really get down into the nitty gritty. I would be hesitant to recommend anyone get a game degree that does not teach low level programming like this. On the other hand, I think anyone who wants to get into the game industry would do extremely well for themselves if they looked for any kind of computer science degree that digs into low level stuff like that. When you go to apply to game programs, showing an incredible knowledge of C++, and how the code you write in it translates into assembly, will really impress them. They're looking for engineers and problem solvers, not just people who have a degree that says 'Game Programming' on it.