QOS is something you will configure to treat some traffic (VOIP traffic) with priority better than other (WWW, monitoring ...), even call signaling can be treated with less priority than the VOIP payload itself. implementation could be divided in two parts, internally: between phones inside same network, which in your case is not needed at all, I can figure out it is 1G end nodes with 10G uplinks which is more than enough. externally: in case of multi-site implementation where the VOIP traffic will traverse WAN connection with other normal data traffic. in this case you need to configure QOS as per a lot of recommendations and calculations (number of concurrent calls, the Codx you use in this calls). Also need to be mentioned that, 

this traffic also could be treated by quality of service (QOS) so simply if PC_1 make traffic to PC_2 (ping for example) and you could obtain the information of source mac , source IP , destination mac , destination IP , this traffic is UDP or TCP , this traffic QOS is best effort for example you successfully made network analyses but lets say cloud network analyses not simply as this example it could include more information like application type and number of sessions payload of each session and so on if you want to see demo of network analyses obtained from real data center may you access ORION live demo 

if any user plugged in if any switch plugged in if it is working as a plan B for any physical failure check the running configuration if it is part of any policy , NAT (if you run on cisco appliance may you issue #sh run | inc ) if it is attached to any VLAN may you need to know what is the use of this vlan 

WISP Setup Provider (Wireless Internet Service Provider) with networks built around wireless networking. Technology may include commonplace Wi-Fi wireless mesh networking, or proprietary equipment designed to operate over open band 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, 4.9, 5.2, 5.4, 5.7, and 5.8 GHz bandsor licensed frequencies in the UHF band (including the MMDS frequency band) and LMDS 

From a routing perspective, Understand the concepts of VRFs ( virtual routing forwarding tables ). Generally, a lot of ISPs use MPLS to route traffic across their core, and this would mean using either L3VPN or L2VPN for providing a circuit between your sites. Each customer could come into the ISP core on a different VRF ( research on 6PE and 6VPE ) and carried across to the other location. In case they don't use MPLS, they could still use VRFs with IP to route traffic. In Such cases, you would not have those routes leaking between the 2 ISPs, and you should not have any problems with loops ( unless your branch sites are connected via another backdoor link) From a redundancy perspective, If you need to think about redundancy only, you don't even need OSPF as such. Static routing with SLAs could help. An easy reference could be this IP SLA on NE In terms of loops, if you are really interested in understanding how loops could happen in OSPF , read this Loop prevention in OSPF and BGP Loop Prevention. Basically within the site, you could have transient loops but not permanent ones in the long run. 

Ron already mentioned this in the comments but let me try to offer a little more explanation. SD-WAN, from a vendor perspective, is offered as a solution which involve a set of technologies designed to simplify deployment and traffic management over WAN. It's a child of the "SDN" umbrella, and basically means you would have software doing a lot of automation for you for device provisioning(instead of a NE popping into the hardware and configuring the CLI) and you(the user) can manage a lot of things(mostly) from a dashboard. Capabilities offered as part of solution vary by vendors. Viptella's vEdge, CISCO's IWAN, VMWare's VeloCloud are some examples of this. MPLS VPN, on the other hand, is a VPN created over a MPLS underlay. This VPN can allow you to route packets ( L3 VPN ) or switch frames ( pseudowire, VPLS ). 

here i used the recommendations of making the DHCP server an external server and just use the command IP helper X.X.X.X in cisco 4500X under each interface vlan to relay DHCP to hosts in this vlan , so that i can get IP on the host machine but when i try to ping machine in other vlan which also obtain its ip from this DHCP server , ping is time out . when i disable ip helper command and make my core switch as DHCP server for each vlan ,inter-vlan routing work probably and i could ping remote host in other vlans . note i did same configuration on the DR site on cisco 4506 core switch and it's work probably. 

second one if your devices and router interfaces from the lan side run same IP range , may you login to each device and configure primary and seconry GW 

They are logical L3 interfaces so called (SVI = switched virtual interfaces) they provide layer 3 services (a gateway) to corresponding L2 Vlan.the L2 vlan can be associated to one or multiple switch ports of the module and they are configured like in an IOS LAN switch. Vlan interfaces are a form of logical interfaces like loopbacks but: an SVI vlan 10 can be up/up only if at least one switch port is up and associated to vlan 10 (including trunk ports and actually the correct definition is at least one port in Spanning tree state forwarding). Note: this is true for real switches it can be false for these modules on routers (the internal trunk between router and module can be enough to make the L3 SVI to stay up) First of all the corresponding L2 object Vlan has to be created, it is likely that you should use vlan database context as you did 

it seams like you have network like shown first of all it is not proper network design , where cascading switch connection means single point of failure and traffic bottleneck.so you should run star topology. second wan port refer to external connection ,so your router not connected to SW2 via wan port it just Ethernet port and in your case is internal regarding your first question : no problem of have switch here for two purposes a) may be in the future you get more services from this ISP (WAN , VPN ..etc) so each one may need single port b) port in a switch is cheaper than port in router regarding your second question : for any switch connect any other switch , ports involved in this connection should be configured as a trunk regarding your third question : keep both link from your server to the switch and make use of great feature port aggregation or NIC teamming from the side of server , which will increase the Bandwidth and add redundancy to your server 

If the switch is capable of performing routing, is there a default route or a static route for R1's loopbacks pointing to e1/0's IP address. If the switch does not support routing, then make sure the default gateway is set to e1/0's IP. If the switch is CISCO's then the command is "ip default-gateway " 

I looked up the ASA documentation, and you are right. Only FirePower allows configuration of HTTP blocked page responses. But I want to suggest an old school method for doing this. I believe you know the destination IPs that need to be blocked, since you are already filtering the traffic. So you could use static routes for these destinations and point them to a server in your LAN, that could act as a proxy. The "blocked" page response could be served from that location. 

Syslog streaming is independent of the router resources since it sends configured logs to an external Syslog server. Losing the syslog would mean that these logs go back to the internal buffer. The internal buffer is allocated a piece of memory by the OS itself, but is user-configurable with values ranging from 4096 to approx 2 billion. However, setting a larger value for a buffer means that you are eating up into that precious memory which could be needed for other router tasks. So, if you set the internal buffer value to a value that you feel would not starve others ( this could vary depending on where the router is placed in the network) and you lose the syslog server, you should do fine. The only thing you would lose are the logs since internal buffer is similar to a circular queue which means newer messages replace older ones. NOTE : We have 4 syslog servers in our network, and I think that gives us a good amount of HA 

This is better suited to a comment, but my reputation doesn't allow me to do that. So here goes: I am confused with your physical diagram and your logical representation. According to the physical diagram , if R6 connects to SW1 on E1/0, then fa1/6 on the switch should be configured as a trunk. Which means, you should have two sub-interfaces e1/0.67 and e1/0.46 on R6 to cater to the different VLANs. If I understood this incorrectly, then my apologies. Also Hung Tran is right. If you have subinterfaces, then configuring on the main interface is not optimal. From routing perspective, you should check 2 things: