I agree with mgjk but to expand on it a little, USB harddrives are relatively reliable. I have had some last for several years. I have had some fail on me, but then that is true of the primary harddrive inside the computer too. Any harddrive, indeed any storage medium at all, will have a failure rate. That is why for files that are truly valuable you should have redundant backups, no one solution will be perfectly reliable. At home I backup my files automatically to my NAS as well as using dropbox for many of my key files (in conjunction with truecrypt for the sensitive ones.) I also occassionally burn a DVD with the files that I know I want to archive for the long term. I would not fully trust any single one of those solutions, but together I know the odds of them all failing at once are acceptably low. 

I have only done this once before with Windows 7, but many times with Vista and XP. Generally with all of them, moving to a new physical system requires a little work, but it is quite manageable normally. As a general rule, I reinstall windows on top of itself. This preserves your data and most installed programs while reconfiguring the registry and getting the proper drivers installed. I have known people to move harddrives and just install the appropriate drivers without reinstalling windows, and this has worked in some cases, but overinstalling windows normally gives cleaner results. The one case where I would expect significant problems, that I have never personally tried, is moving from a 32 bit system to a 64 bit system. As with all major changes, you probably want to make a thorough backup of the data before making the change (or better, just double check the automated backups you already have....) 

Photoshop (and Photoshop Elements) magic wand tool will allow you to select contiguous colours. You may want to play with the tolerance a bit... Once selected, hit delete to remove the white. 

Break off the wire for the Reed Switch (Or whatever it's called in the new Macs) like I did when I was replacing my iBook hard-drive. Close the lid and walk away! 

DNS is trying to connect with an IPv6 address (fe89:...) and it's timing out. If you disable this and go straight to the IPv4 address (172....) then probably the addresses will resolve properly. Disabling this in Vista is another story. I avoid Vista like the plague so hopefully another commentor can help out. Is it receiving these dns server addresses via DHCP? Try typing in the "172..." address manually. 

You can create a new installation cd with nLite. It's somewhate involved because you need to download all the service packs and have your xp disc handy but the utility will combine all your service packs and updates (called slipstreaming) along with other files that you add so that the post install setup time is greatly reduced. I work in a small non-profit and we often receive older machines that I set up in this way. No more "install...reboot...install...reboot...check for updates...install...reboot...check for updates...install..reboot... you get the idea. 

They seem to want people to use Windows Live Mail which is a free download. Why didn't they just include it? Antitrust issues? I don't know. I haven't read anything official from Microsoft. This is what they say about getting e-mail in Windows 7 from their website. 

I'm unsure about those three options, but if you only need Word you could try Abiword which is substantially lighter than MS Word and free as well. 

I do not know how to do it in Adobe Illustrator, but there are 3rd party programs that will do it in batches. I have a rather inelegant one I wrote for my wife, but I posted the complete code at pypicresizer on Google code. I suspect there are a number of others that are a bit more user friendly than the one I wrote out there. 

I have some relatively young children and when I got a faster computer, I gave them my old one. For the moment, I am keeping that computer entirely off network, but I would like to be able to put a few movies or tv shows on it for them. But I am being stymied in looking for a legal way to do this. I would love to be wrong, but I believe rippin a DVD generally violates the DMCA, so I cannot go that route. When buyin movies that are supposed to come with a digital copy, installing the digital copy virtually always requires an internet connection and is not (at least in a reasonably easy and legal way) transferrable to another computer which is not networked. I cannot find any site that would legally sell decent show downloads which are not heavily encumbered by DRM that also often requires an internet connection, even for government supported programs like Nova on PBS. So, are there any options I am overlooking? 

You can install those with the free VmWare player, though the developer eddition comes with some ver nice features if you can afford it. While VmWare Player may want to write to the virtual machine files, you can make a DVD with a library of images and copy the image over to a harddrive much like installing a program. You could also look at application virtualization depending on what you need. 

In Network Utility try to ping google.com If that fails, try to ping 8.8.8.8 If that succeeds, you need to check your DNS settings. Check System Preferences - Network - Airport - Advanced (button near bottom right of window) - DNS 

Quicksilver can do all these things and then a bunch of other things that you would never think about, but once you've seen them you just say. "That makes sense." I use Spotlight to find things and Quicksilver to do things. 

Try Net Profiles. It's a small (500 KB) open source application. I haven't used it recently, but it used to do what you want. 

Can you? Yes Should you? Probably not. Do you really want to risk it? A tube of thermal paste costs 15$ at a computer repair shop and is good for several applications. 

DEVONthink ($49.95) and Yojimbo ($39) are two commercial Mac OS X apps that do most or all of that. Yojimbo is easier to use but may not handle the posting to blog requirement. 

Alkaline batteries may be at issue. I've seen "new" alkalines perform poorly and installing lithium batteries solved the problem. Also, Try unplugging the receiver from the computer and then replugging it. 

Two things to do to troubleshoot this. A. Try connecting wirelessly to another network at work or at the coffee shop or library. If all is good, then start tweaking your router settings. If the problem persists, B. Restore your iPod via iTunes. Does this solve the problem? If so it may be an app or a combination of apps causing your problem. If neither option works, you may have a faulty component or your son (not you obviously) may have dropped it on the tile floor. The symptoms sound awfully similar to the time my iBook had a loose antenna connection to the airport card. No antenna = very weak wireless reception. 

Have you considered SciTE? It handles searching in multiple files quite gracefully and is completely free. 

Like soandos said, the operating system matters a lot here. But I can point out that most modern OS's (unix based systems do this routinely, but Windows makes some use of it too) can run a process at less than full privileges for security reasons. So, if you are using something like a terminal window, the priveleges for the process can be just as significant as the priveleges for the user account. 

It depends on exactly what you mean by safe. CD-ROMS are read only and even CD-Rs and CD-RWs often require special efforts (at least on the OS end of things) to write to more than once. So, it is generally impossible to infect a LiveCD, unless it was somehow infected at time of creation. Now, the session can certainly become infected. But if you are careful about not running programs from the harddrive and only accessing data of types that you know is not infected you should be able to keep that risk very low indeed. I have in the past booted off a known clean harddrive in order to pull essential data off a partially corrupted or infected drive before formatting the drive with some success, if that is what you are looking for. 

If I have two computers, both running Windows 7, on my home network, is there some way to write a script so that I can click on a single icon on the one computer and make the other computer execute a program? Clearly, I could do this by accessing the other computer through remote desktop connection and then executing the program, but I would like to avoid (or at least automate) making the connection so I can just click a single icon to have it happen. 

Apples Airport Express is not cheap, but is by far the easiest system I've ever had to configure as a WDS Remote. Having one upstairs and one downstairs solves your problem. In addition, you get Airtunes and wireless USB printing as a bonus. 

Typing "IP Address" in spotlight gives you "Network" as an option under "System preferences". Clicking that takes you straight to the appropriate window inside the correct pane in System Preferences. Amazing. Try doing that with the "Find" option in Windows. 

Running the recently released Namebench will tell you what DNS server you're using and will also tell you if there are faster ones available. Word of warning it takes a few minutes to run, but the results are enlightening. 

Some older on board video cards only support 4:3 ratios. (800x600, 1024x768, 1280x1024) You may need to buy a newer video card or barring that, find a setting that puts black bars on the sides of you new screen. I've seen this very thing happen with an LG LCD, and the user has been living with it for 4 months now. It gives me a headeche just thinking about it. 

I ran into an install like this yesterday. If the printer is connected via USB you may be alright. If your printer is connected vie ethernet, well that's a headache. If you can scan from the server, meaning the software is correctly installed, then you should be able to share the scanner and connect to it simply via the scanners and cameras section in "My Computer" or whatever that's called in Windows 7. 

In some instances I've seen people using a mouse with the option to use the right click button for secondary click, turned off. I'm not sure whether it was set that way by defaut when they connected the mouse, but checking the appropriate box in the System Preferences turned on right clicks.