Half duplex can not send and receive at the same time. It also has algorithms to detect and handle collisions (CSMA-CD). Think of it like a walkie talkie or a CB radio, only on a network. Full duplex can send and receive at the same time. Think of it as a telephone. One issue that can arise is sometimes you will see a 100 Mbps half duplex connection which should almost never happen. Since the 100 Mbps connection will most likely not be detecting collisions (it expects to be full duplex), it can be very very slow. This normally happens when one side is hard set to 100/full and the other side is set to autonegotiate. The side that is set at auto will not be able to sense what the duplex is (because the other side is hard set) and use half duplex. So, while you will see 10/half quite often on older equipment, be very very suspect if you see 100/half because you are probably looking at a duplex mismatch. 

I may be barking up a tree that doesn't exist but I am trying to find out if there is a way to limit a user or group's access to only a specific VRF. This is a 6500 series switch. Note, I am not trying to control access FROM a VRF. We have an ACS server so if it can't be done with access-class or other commands on the switch itself, I'm wondering if it would be possible to limit access to config commands within a specific VRF. As I write this, I don't think this would really be possible as you can configure an interface that's in a specific VRF without specifying the VRF. The reason I'm asking is we are going to connect to our parent company's WAN using a VRF on our core switch. However, they're saying they need access to whatever equipment they will be peering with. I'm not so worried about the show commands. It's more the configuration commands. If not, we'll just have to count on our logging to let us know something's been changed. 

I am having trouble wrapping my brain around a VRF concept and why two switches are communicating with each other on a particular VLAN when I don't think they should. switch1 & switch2 are independent core switches with a port channel between them. However, none of the VLANs that are configured with SVIs in the VRF are configured on the port channel. I have vlan 920 (L2) configured on switch1 and switch2. I also have SVI vlan920 (L3) configured on both switches. The SVI vlan920 is configured inside VRF extwan as are several others. vlan920 on switch1 is 10.146.64.130 & 10.146.64.131 on switch2. If I issue a 'ping vrf extwan 10.146.64.131' on switch1, I get a reply. If I do a 'sh ip arp vrf extwan' on switch1 there's an entry pointing .131 to vlan920 & a MAC address on switch2 that is the same for every SVI on that switch. I assume it represents the MSFC. So, there is no physical L3 connection set up yet between the switches and the existing L2 channel does not include these VLANs, how am I getting ARP entries in the VRF for the other switch? The VRF is connected to a set of ASAs on another SVI (also in the VRF) so maybe it's going through that? Another possibility is that these switches are connected to access switches but STP is blocking one of the links on each VLAN. 

From there, you just iterate through each and replace the .html with .csv to get an usable output. For example, if you wanted to see what IP spaces Yemen was using, I used: 

I suppose this is theoretically possible, although what you are trying to accomplish is exactly what VLAN separation sets out to resolve, layer 2 separation. 

The user for any *nix platform is capable of performing any functions on the system they want - and I mean anything. I'd suggest you look into a wiki article on this as it is a little beyond the scope of this SE. It is good practice to disable root access to your juniper devices. Most environments disable it in a few different ways. 

Default ACL sample curtesy of Cisco IOS Login Enhancements (Login Block). Manually defining your own ACL for these parameters is ideal. 

That’s because VTP functions on a client/server model, not a distributed model. The server effectively controls everything that happens inside the VTP domain. When a switches directly connected port/downstream port, it sends a VTP Join message indicating participation in that VLAN. If you wanted something similar to a distributed model that supports VLAN pruning across links, you would be looking at something similar to GVRP, which is pretty difficult to come by in the Cisco world these days (aside from CatOS). I would assume this is because they’re trying to push VTP a lot harder. 

Depending on when the commands were typed in, this sounds like the expected behaviour. If were plugged into , and moved to the trunk state, then DTP on would have negotiated trunk mode. This is how DTP normally negotiates the interface mode: 

Yes this is certainly possible, but is accomplished in a couple different areas. It's slightly more involved, too, since you setup everything manually versus the per-IP based solution which works across the board. Dell has another write-up for that, as well; UTM: Configuring Bandwidth Management for HTTP Websites using App Rules feature (SW11515). 

No, there is absolutely no reason why you would if you are on an isolated network. Quality of Service is simply a queueing mechanism that prioritize traffic based on predetermined requirements. If you enabled QoS on this network, you would effectively be saying "guarantee 100% of my already 100% available bandwidth is guaranteed for VoIP". 

Run . Optionally, you could delete all of ge-0/0/0.0 with and then put your configurations back in. When running and , you should see this: 

In theory, you'll want to migrate the clients to transparent before you remove the server from the equation. This makes absolute certain that things will continue to function without any gotchas. In practice, it doesn't matter. A server will just stop sending summary advertisements to the VTP domain and the clients will continue using the last seen revision. We just went through this on one of our tiny, alternate networks. Someone completely wiped out the VTP server and it went unnoticed for months before anyone looked. 

We have an L2 path between a tape drive and a NetApp. The path goes through 3 switches (a 6509 and two N5K) but the two devices are on the same VLAN. All 10 gig fiber. I found out that while most of the ports in the path are set to an MTU of 9216, one of them (the port on the 6509 core going to the first N5K) is set to 1500. The interface on the other side is set to 9216. We are getting a max of 750 Mpbs between these two systems and I'm thinking this might be the cause. I'm guessing that the systems are using PMTUD in this situation and are using 1500 byte frames when talking to each other but this is causing less optimal data transfer. I've been told by Cisco that to change this, I need to enable system jumbomtu 9216 on the 6509 (it's not set right now) and then set the interface MTU to 9216 as well. Since this is our core switch I'm hesitant to do this without knowing how the system jumbomtu will affect things. Since it has a redundant non-VSS sister, I should make the change on both of them. Would there be any ill effects of making this change? I'm reading things in Cisco's docs that I don't fully understand. For example, the setting jumbo MTU config section says: "For Layer 2 Ethernet ports, you can configure only the global egress LAN port MTU size" <- (which is set using system jumbomtu) There are several L2 (non routed, non SVI) ports configured for both 1500 and 9216 yet the system jumbomtu command is not set on this switch. Does that mean that the 9216 setting on these L2 ports is getting ignored? If I set system jumbomtu 9216, will this effectively change all the L2 ports to an egress MTU of 9216? The Catalyst switches are running IOS 12.2. No CatOS. 

At first I thought this might be working as designed or some artifact of L2 communication I didn't understand. However, I did some deeper digging and found another path between switch1 and switch2 on vlan 920... I found that switch1 was learning switch2's SVI MAC address for vlan 920 through another port channel which led to one of the access switches. I took a look at this access switch and for reasons I don't yet understand, it has STP turned off (no spanning-tree vlan 550, 920, 930, 940) for the VLANs I added for this project. I think this happened automatically as VTP is enabled on this network and the config changed on the same day the vlan.dat file changed. So communication on VAN 920 is going from switch1, to this access switch and then switch2 because STP isn't being blocked on either of the port channels to the access switch. I'll close this question out and will probably post a new question on how this would happen. I haven't found the answer via google yet.