Before you decide to do a clone, you need to first consider that the disk checks could be a symptom of a hardware failure. Run a memory test and hard drive test (a simple "cat /dev/sda > /dev/null" with a live Linux CD that returns no error works fine in a pinch) and make sure your CPU isn't overheating and you don't have bad capacitors or a flaky power supply, because there's a reason the disk checks happen. Alternatively, you can foolishly disable all automatic disk checking on a hard drive (I'll assume C: for the example) by typing the following at an elevated command prompt: "chkntfs /X C:" And live blissfully ignorant of any and all filesystem errors that never get checked for again. Now, on to the cloning option, which may or may not fix your issue, but inquiring minds want to know. Assuming you want to clone to a hard drive of the same or greater size, you can certainly use the Linux "dd" command, i.e. "dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sdb" will get the job done for copying sda -> sdb. Any live Linux CD or USB can do this if it can detect your hard drives. If the destination is larger, you'll not be able to use the extra space without creating a new partition in Windows. Note that "easy" tools like GParted may not always work for cloning; you MUST copy the boot code in the MBR to the new disk for that disk to boot the partition, and you must copy the NTFS boot code that occupies sectors beyond the partition boot sector. "dd" will do this automatically because it copies, byte for byte, everything on the disk, including "free space" in the filesystem and the unused sectors between the MBR and the first partition. I have done a lot of work with cloning filesystems manually (read: the really hard way) using only Linux "dd" and the ntfsprogs tool "ntfsclone" but I guarantee you that you don't want to go through that trouble. Your partition must start on the exact same sector of the disk as before, you must copy the boot code from the MBR and the boot sector AND the NTFS boot area after the boot sector, and if you throw resizing into the mix, it only gets worse; and on the extremely unlikely chance that your computer decides to represent the sector geometry of the new drive differently, you have to hex edit the NTFS boot sector to modify the sector count also. If you can do it with dd, do it with dd. If not, another user suggested Clonezilla which might also work. The latest GParted live CD may get the job done as well, but I haven't tested that. If you want to live an exciting life, I'll detail the hard way that I do it when necessary. There are modifications that can be made to this process if needed, but it's the reader's job to figure those out on a case-by-case basis. Assume here that /dev/sda with only one partition is larger than destination /dev/sdb, just so resizing is thrown in there too. If this eats your data, it's not my problem. And now, the hard way to clone a disk with a single NTFS partition from one hard disk to another (assuming the disks are 100% good/healthy/not going to die): ntfsresize -fns 70G /dev/sda1 (If that command indicates a successful outcome:) ntfsresize -fs 70G /dev/sda1 dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sdb bs=512 count=1 fdisk -u /dev/sdb (fdisk commands follow, comma = hit [enter]) p, (note the starting sector of /dev/sda1) d, n, p, 1, (enter starting sector previously noted), +70G, t, 7, a, 1, w, (end of fdisk commands) dd if=/dev/sda1 of=/dev/sdb1 bs=512 count=32 ntfsclone -O /dev/sdb1 /dev/sda1 (wait for what seems like forever) fdisk -u /dev/sdb p, (note the starting sector of /dev/sda1) d, n, p, 1, (enter starting sector previously noted), (hit enter to accept default of last disk sector), t, 7, a, 1, w, (end of fdisk commands) ntfsresize -f /dev/sdb1 That's it. My advice to find an automated solution stands, but it wouldn't be a complete answer to your question if I didn't include the hard way. 

EDIT: Concerning your error. Not all InlineShape objects are pictures. You can specify in your VBA code to only select InlineShapes whose Type is Picture. This is probably why I prefer to reference objects directly as 'InlineShape' instead of grouping them all together with 'InlineShape-s'. You can't easily get to the 'Type' property with InlineShape-s. 

All of the pictures in your Word Document have to be formatted as 'In Line with Text' for that piece of code to work. Having the document text wrap around the image in any other way makes it a VBA Shape Object and not an InlineShape Object. 

In Device Manager, you should find your network device under 'Network adapters'. First uninstall your device driver, make sure you select the checkbox to 'Delete the driver software for this device'. This should ensure that Windows removes the device and its settings from the registry. Then restart your computer, then reinstall your driver again. If this doesn't work, check if you have a system restore point that was created before you made changes for DNS4ME. In the future, before you make any configuration changes... create a system restore point. 

When I got my system running again with a backup of the original .plist file, the console logs showed the process wouldn't load because launchd was waiting for debugger. The Debug logging key seems to be different from running a 'Debugger' program ?? I really don't know. I'm still looking for a solution and would appreciate any advice. 

Eg. have firefox take the file from the cache or download it silently and upload it transparently. I hope I won't have to write that myself... 

for public keys and: for complete keys (including private part). Where you can supply (partial) fingerprints for KEY1, KEY2 etc. 

Boot from a live disc into some linux system to verify it is a windows problem. Reinstall drivers Try to roll back SP1 or did you mean you installed the whole windows 7 recently? Verify there are no hardware conflicts, like several devices on the same irq sometimes causes trouble. In that case try throwing a bunch out and letting windows reinstall them sometimes assigns different irqs. If all else fails, you will have to find users with the same problem and hope they have a solution or debug the system which I suppose you don't want to do. (Google is your friend...) 

Using debian wheezy and iceweasel, I somehow managed to have it no longer redering text in pre tags. It still shows the background but no text. This is no color problem, I cannot select anything. I can see the code using "show selection source". I have already tried reinstalling the iceweasel package, and running in safe mode, but to no avail. As a sidenote, it might be more than just pre, the textarea for asking and answering questions on stackechange have it also. The cursor just stays in the left of the textarea and I only see what I am typing thanks to the instant preview. Recent changes to my system is that i tried to install monospace fonts like consolas and inconsolata, which failed (they show as boxes), and that I played around with the system default fonts in gnome tweak tool... However changing settings doesn't resolve the problem on first sight... Tor browser bundle, which has a completely different profile as well as executables also has it. I tested by making some monospace text with css and it still shows monospace fine... Another textarea on a site I am building works fine, I don't know what is special about the ones on stack exchange. I know I am very talented in making software break, but it is really incredible how it can break in such ridiculous ways though... Any clues more than welcome, I am flabbergasted. 

I've recently done a fresh install of Mac OS X Snow Leopard on a Macbook Pro because of a system failure. The system is bare except for what the DVD installs. I've turned off Airport, Bluetooth, and have no wired connections. However, I'm seeing Network Packets being sent and received in Activity Monitor under the Network tab. The tcpdump command says that no interfaces were found, but still Activity Monitor shows packets being sent and received. How is this possible with all network devices turned off? Are there any terminal commands that I can run to show where these network packets are coming from? 

Also, the Borders object includes all 4 sides. You shouldn't need your second For...Next statement to loop 4 four times to set the style and color on each side. The last thing is that the border line was not easy to see on my pictures when I let it set to the default width size. You can also set the Linewidth property just to see if it's working. In Office 2007, this works for me: 

I am new to MacOS and I would like to get a better of view of what's going on with a system process when my computer is starting up. I can see in the log that a process is changing settings, but the log doesn't say how. I am thinking that by setting the log level to debug, the syslog will capture more information about what the process is doing. If I run to increase the log level, the setting does not get saved when I reboot my computer. I read here that it is possible to change the setting permanently somewhere in the .plist file for syslogd, but I don't understand how. Can someone tell me the settings to permanently raise the log level for a specific process to get more information from the log file? Edit: In the /system/library/launchdaemons directory, I added the code below to a .plist file for one of the system services and it made my computer unbootable.