Then, of course, we have an OSPF Stub Area. Let's consider where all this comes from... OSPF Stub Network vs OSPF Transit Network Transit and Stub networks are discussed in RFC 2328: OSPFv2 - Section 2.1: 

Many people new to networking wonder what the technical differences between a broadcast domain and a collision domain are. Specifically: 

They only advertise routes out interfaces where the masks match (this is your problem) They automatically summarize at major network boundaries (see bonus material, below) 

End Notes: 1 FPM's limitation of inspecting a single IP packet is non-trivial, since that means it's possible to circumvent FPM if an attack manages to split the attack signatures across multiple IP fragments, or TCP packets (since the TCP stream is reassembled at the receiver). That said, it's a still very powerful tool as long as you understand the limitations of the technology. 

I don't have a device with an ipfib process available, but assuming you're running IOS, the principles are the same no matter what the process name is... Find the index for the process in question: First, walk cpmProcessName and find the index... for instance, I'll look for "ARP Input"... 

Just change to , and then remove the trailing comma after the bracket containing the value we changed. Now I have a working map... 

This is an incorrect understanding of TFTP. TFTP is a reliable transfer protocol, by default each tftp packet must be acknowledged, which means it's slower, especially over a WAN (because there are no TCP windowing dynamics). Once the image is on the router, you should always verify the IOS checksums against those posted on Cisco's website... 

Once the router has picked the longest match prefix for the destination (using what the rfc calls "pruning rules"), it must pick the next-hop to forward the traffic to. At this point ECMP (or "load-splitting") occurs... Quoting rfc 1812, Requirements for IPv4 Routers, Section 5.2.4.3 Next Hop Address, 

Question How can I reconfigure this supervisor to use , or reconfigure the other supervisor to use ? Console log from sw2 This is what I see when I boot 3.4.1SG on the misbehaving supervisor. 

Next, optionally start your receiver with a timed finish (backgrounding the netcat portion in a subshell so it won't block). This is not really necessary if you don't care about checksumming the received data.: 

Now Loopback100 doesn't exist in the running configuration. The configuration is exactly the way it was when we took our first snapshot. 

I have a standalone ISE node, which is being stubborn about an upgrade... The docs say this should work, but I'm getting an error... 

Purely informational... this is the open-auth autonomous AP config we're using for our 2.4G and 5.0G survey... 

BTW, a bug's root cause can be found without a core dump; Cisco IOS developers do this all the time based on the stack trace you find in IOS crashinfo. Also see this example crashinfo. I diagnosed crashes for several years in Cisco Adv Services, and crashinfo is how we isolated most Cisco bugs. 

Peering with a different ASN: AS path shown Now we reconfigure both routers... one in AS100 and the other in AS200. in AS100 is configured to send 10.204.1.1... 

Yes, evesdropping is quite possible, regardless of whether you think you can trust your provider. I will quote from rfc4381 MPLS VPN Security, Section 7: As far as attacks from within the MPLS core are concerned, all [unencrypted] VPN classes (BGP/MPLS, FR, ATM) have the same problem: If an attacker can install a sniffer, he can read information in all VPNs, and if the attacker has access to the core devices, he can execute a large number of attacks, from packet spoofing to introducing new peer routers. There are a number of precautionary measures outlined above that a service provider can use to tighten security of the core, but the security of the BGP/MPLS IP VPN architecture depends on the security of the service provider. If the service provider is not trusted, the only way to fully secure a VPN against attacks from the "inside" of the VPN service is to run IPsec on top, from the CE devices or beyond. 

2. Now we need to calculate the number of ATM cells per second required for 300Kbps of 1452-byte TCP payloads over PPPoE... Assume the AAL5 MUX PDU is 1536 Bytes including padding, which equates to 32 ATM Cells per PPPoE packet (at 1452 byte TCP payloads). 

Configure your Force10 with and on the interface which faces the Cisco 6500... Reference: Force10 - Cisco STP Interoperability paper. This is the complete configuration for your Port-channel (however, see the warning below) 

However, EIGRP won't send updates merely because the load-interval changes, it will only send an update when there is another topology change. The end result is that until there is a topology change, the local router will make decisions based on load; however, other routers won't be aware of those decisions until EIGRP is forced to send updates. Practically, this EIGRP load-average feature can solve some point problems, but isn't as helpful as MPLS TE in my opinion. 

AS numbers can be reassigned; quoting RIPE Autonomous System (AS) Number Assignment Policies and Procedures, Section 1.8: 

The reason dot1q on a Cisco interface works without bumping the physical interface MTU is because most Cisco routers support what Cisco calls "baby giants"... a baby giant has an Ethernet MTU above 1518 (which includes the eth header size), but not very much over 1518... usually the default values is 1522 bytes... see this MTU configuration doc for more information. Many Cisco platforms support configurable ethernet baby giant MTUs to 1532 bytes (or even higher), which is also why MPLS tag stacks (2 or 3 tags deep) can work through legacy ethernet links. Even though Cisco ethernet interfaces support baby giants, they leave the default IP MTU at 1500 bytes. As long as the default IP MTU of 1500 is maintained, you'll have no problems with the default settings of any other router with a 1500-byte IP MTU... quoting RFC 2328 Section 10.8: 

The reason your router hangs is because you're editing the ACL through the same interface that it's applied to. Usually what happens is you wind up blocking yourself accidentally. Note that I make a suggestion for reorganizing your ACLs at the bottom of this answer, although most people will be interested in this first section (the easiest way to change ACLs). 

You've enabled LDP; however, as an MPLS label distribution protocol LDP, only maps IGP routes to MPLS labels; in your case the IGP is EIGRP... Quoting RFC 3031 - MPLS Architecture, page 8 (emphasis mine): 

Note 1: While I consider 0.5% packet loss over 5 minutes enough to notice, I wouldn't make a big deal out of it... this threshold is just a number where you can concede that there might start to be a noticable TCP performance problem; 0.5% loss probably isn't going to get your attention. However, if the packet loss is both regular and bad enough to notice (such as your case), insist that your provider fix the problem (as long as the loss is in their network). Note 2: In my experience, some switches simply cannot operate with zero packet drops when multiple users are on this switch. At this point you have choices: A) Forklift all the existing switches (if the packet drop problem is big enough), B) Wait for a patch from the vendor to fix the issue, or C) Accept the packet drops as a "feature" of the switch. By way of example, I have faced this choice with the Cisco 3850's shared-buffer architecture. 

If I choose a different source or destination address, it's possible to see a different path chosen... 

All that to say, you're mostly out of luck for a one-command does-it-all solution. The best thing you could do is write an audit script; ciscoconfparse can assist with these kind of tasks (full-disclosure, I wrote that library for exactly this kind of problem). 

Apologies, it took a while to figure out mininet and the OpenFlow ryu controller, but I finally got it... 

Both Ethernet II and 802.3 encapsulations must be able to exist on the same link. If IEEE allowed Ethernet payloads to exceed 1536 bytes (0x600 hex), then it would be impossible to distinguish large 802.3 LLC or SNAP frames from Ethernet II frames; ethernet's Type values start at 0x600 hex. EDIT: I am including a link to pdf copies of the Ethernet Version 1 spec and Ethernet Version 2 spec, in case anyone is interested... 

This tells the client to use an empty Known Hosts file and do not force strict key checks. As mentioned in the comments, you are removing protections associated with SSH key-checking by disabling host-key checking. You can mitigate this risk by running an IDS in the environment, or by using very strict Layer2 security features on that Vlan: 

Specifically, Table 8 (shown above) uses a custom IMIX (average packet size: 409 bytes) traffic stream as defined in this paper: 

Those two issues seem related, but they have different solutions on the F5. Solving TCP Resets: F5 resets timed-out TCP sessions by default. You can disable that behavior with inside your TCP profile. However, all this does is keep the F5 from resetting the client connection, but the session will still be expired from the F5's state table the next time someone takes a break for a couple of hours, and then moves the mouse pointer again in the xterm. Solving Session expiration inside the F5: Use in your TCP profile. allows the F5 to create an entry in the TCP state table whenever it sees an unknown TCP packet. As long as these connections are trusted, and inside your company, there is no problem turning on. Essentially, makes the F5 behave more like a router than a load-balancer, which is what you need in this situation. xterm sessions create a TCP socket sourced from TCP/6000 to the client. In this case, you aren't load-balancing the xterm sessions anyway. Final solution: Your final profile should look like this... 

The classical definition of an Erlang was developed in the early 1900s by Professor A.K. Erlang. Erlang's definition does not apply generically to data traffic, because there is no standard definition of a "call" in data traffic, nor is there call-blocking as you would find in a fully-utilized Circuit-Switched link. If we make some assumptions about the data network and the type of calls, we can shoe-horn the measurement into a data network. Erlang-B and Erlang-C evolved from classical analysis of circuit-switched networks; they can also be adapted for use in data networks Q & A 

The reason for calculating network addresses and host addresses like this is specified in RFC 950 and RFC 1878; contiguous binary network masks are used to divide IPv4 addresses into host portions and network portions; if the host portion is all-zeros, that is by-definition a network, and not a host. 

The only thing you can do is add to Serial0/0. This would make pings simply timeout instead of receiving an ICMP admin prohibited message when packets are denied on the serial interface. Examples: The following examples illustrate what happens: 

The short story is that you're decoding the destination mac address correctly... However, IP must ARP to resolve mac addresses, which is why you see ... those are just the ARP frames in the ryu controller. This is a complete controller which works and decodes up to the IPv4 layer... Updated ryu switch packet decoder You've been decoding raw , but it's much easier to use the ryu Packet library instead of unpacking a raw of the packet. This is my very quick replacement of , which just prints out the source and destination mac addresses, as well as the upper layer protocols... 

We can see the index for the "ARP Input" process is 1.12... All memory allocated: Now let's find all the memory that was ever allocated to this process. We will do an on cpmProcExtMemAllocatedRev... be sure to append 1.12 to the cpmProcExtMemAllocatedRev OID... 

If you need help understanding how to calculate these correctly, we have many Q&As which already respond to this problem. 

That's certainly not the only reason... Another possible reason is a human could manually generate the ARP as well for a number of reasons which are not worth speculating about. 

FYI, Dropbox supports connecting via http proxy so if your proxy is not in the path of the ACL above, be sure you block dropbox on your proxy too. Throttling Dropbox I did some research after I got home from work... when I tested, Dropbox uses a combination of their own native address space and AWS address space for connections. Dropbox used SSL so it was hard to tell exactly what they were doing, but if I look at sequencing it looks like when you move a file in or out of your local folder, first they talk to their own address blocks, then they use AWS for a bulk transfer as-required. Since they used AWS for most of the bytes I saw, I'm not confident you can easily throttle them using address blocks alone; however, at least today they can be blocked with ACLs. The following is a summary, see below for all Supporting Syslog Information... 

When I used as shown above, the switch noticed the invalid source IP address in the ARP frame, and dropped it: 

cpmProcExtMemAllocatedRev is the sum of all memory ever allocated to the process; that means you'll have to subtract all memory that was ever freed from the process. All memory freed: To find all the memory that was ever freed, poll the cpmProcExtMemFreedRev OID, and append the index (1.12)...