I know how to configure one IIS instance to run many websites using the same public ip address, but different domain names (As long as I have control over the domains). But how can you configure many IIS servers running on different virtual machines in the same network, to host websites using the same public IP addres, but different domain names? Normailly in IIS under the website you can set the headers to which the website will respond to. but what if that website is on a different machine? Edit: Let me explain better. Pretend that you have only one public IP address that you can use to serve up websites. You want to expose multiple websites under that same IP address, but the websites live on different physical machines, within your network. 

If I install vmware workstation v7 on top of v6.5, will it use the same license key, or do I have to buy a v7 license? 

What I would really like to do is, I would like to find a way to be using my Home desktop developing on that, and whenever my computer tries to access servers on the Data Center, I would like to tunnel that traffic through the two VPN tunnels which are currently separating me and the Data Center. I have admin privileges on both Office Desktop and Home Desktop, but I do not have any admin privileges in the Data Center. So what kind of tunneling solution could I use here? Is it even possible? 

When shopping for a RAID solution, I noticed that there are a lot of companies that sell solutions with non-standard proprietary RAID controller cards. What that means to me is that if I am using Mirrored RAID 1, and I have a total catastrophe (where the card dies and I cannot get it replaced for whatever reason), I cannot just take one of the drives in the mirrored set and hook it up to any computer and be able to retrieve all of the data off of it. If it is a standard RAID implementation then I CAN do this. My question is what are the advantages of having a proprietary RAID implementation?? Isn't it always better to find cards that are standard RAID? Also when shopping, what do you look for to know what sort of RAID implementation it is, because it's not like they mark this information clearly on the box. Any thoughts guys? EDIT: OOps .. typo... I meant RAID 1 not RAID 0 .... 

I think it depends on the application pool settings that determine the maximum amount of memory an application can use. If the application exceeds this limit the pool may recycle, causing whatever web application run in it to also restart and droping/losing sessions along the way. 

I have been using PFSense on a PC for about 4 years now for my home network, and it works perfect. I love all of its features and I really cannot complain. Recently though I have been getting tired of maintaining the PC that it runs on, having to reinstall it every time a major part goes wrong such as motherboard or hard drive etc.. I'd like to know if any of you here can recommend a reasonably priced router box that could replace my PFSense running on this PC. Here are the features that I currently use in PFSense that I would also like to use in the replacement: 

In gmail you at least see header (not warning) saying "someone@serverfault.com via ", but if you use for ex. Thunderbird to connect via IMAP/POP3 you don't see any such thing - only way to detect scam is to view raw message headers directly. This means there is no protection agains such simple spoofing, even in gmail IMO this could be easily avoided if for example SFP would verify also the "From:" field, in addition to "Return-path". I am therefore wondering is there any plugin for Postfix/Amavisd that would allow such spoof-filtering? Or maybe i am misunderstanding some of these technologies (SPF/DKIM/DMARC) and one of them can protect from such spoofing? 

And disabled policyd (for testing) When sending mail from other host (from gmail for ex) to this machine, in postfix logs there is an error that policyd server cannot be accessed 

which means that postfix tries to access policyd server (which works as expected) However, when i try to send mail from console (with mailx) to user root (local account) or somewhere else (gmail), no such lookups are made - mail just slides through, without even trying to access policyd 

Which makes me wonder - why check_policy_service does not work? (i believe this is a postfix issue) Anybody has any idea how to make policyd limit system users (for example webapp) in sending mails? 

I'm using OpenDKIM for verifying signed mails that are incoming to my mail server and use it as a spam addon (if dkim is broken, mail lands in Junk). However, I'm getting lot of false-positives with broken DKIM (signature verification failed), for which main cause is mailing lists software, which adds its own headers/modify content etc. I'm wondering is there any built-in feature in OpenDKIM (like whitelist) that will allow me to decrease false-positives, since it is not possible to contact every admin of every mailing list and say they have a improper setup that breaks DKIM. Example header below: 

I'm facing a problem of verifying a "From:" message field in e-mail messages, in terms of e-mail spoofing. I am currently using SPF and DKIM to verify the origin and integrity of messages, but as far as I can work out, SPF only validates the "Return-Path" header, which is not displayed to the end user in any way (via roundcube or thunderbird) and DKIM only allows for digitally signing the message and assuring the sender is really the one he claims to be. I also tried to dig into DMARC, but this one apparently allows only to force treating not-signed mails originating from out domain as spam (which is good) but is currently used only by big mail providers (Gmail, Yahoo) Neither of these protect yourself from situation when someone (for example owner of some free shared hosting) decides to run this simple PHP script 

I modified above message (removed IP's and logins), so it might indeed have a broken DKIM, but originally it was untouched - only by mailing list sofware @ ubuntu.com So again, is there a way to set up OpenDKIM to be more tolerant/ignore/verify in different way the DKIM signature for such mail? 

I'm trying to set up a policyd server on Centos x64 (selinux disabled), which will allow me for limiting numer of messages incoming from different servers and (more important) outgoing from different user accounts. At the moment, i believe i have a working configuration for limiting incoming mail (for example, from google) but I cannot make postfix do same policy checks for internal and outgoing mail. Here's the problem (at the moment i'm just trying to make postfix use the policy service at all) I added following lines to main.cf 

I tend to use 'du -k myfile' to get kbytes and visually drop the last three digits, but I'm just looking for approximate size. Turns out that du often (always?) has -m option for MB. Keep in mind that how large the file likely differs slightly from the amount of diskspace used, as the disk allocation occurs in blocks, not bytes. If you are looking for 'fat' files because of low diskspace, that would be a more enlightening question, as the solutions would be more varied. 

Caveat! Every single time I think I understand the rules for how authentication works, I have to futz with the config repeatedly until I get some nuance correct. Use this only as a starting point. Re-read the apache documentation on mod_auth and mod_access in particular, paying special attention to the Order directive. Therein lies your answer. Hope this helps, and please post your working example if it doesn't match this one, as this is a pretty good recipe to have in an apache cookbook. --edit-- Testing the above shows that restricted area is forbidden to all except for those from the IP address, who must provide authentication. It is not clear from your question if users from other IPs need unfettered access to this 'restricted area' or if they are simply forbidden? 

I use this to keep two machines in sync, or to keep to subdirs in sync (like backing up to a USB drive). As one of the other posts stated earlier, the 'checksum' may actually be forced OFF if you are dealing with local drives. In some rare instances, I've had to add additional parameters to account for changes in login accounts across remote machines, changing ports, and even specifying where 'rsync' lives on the remote host... but those are not directly applicable to your question. 

It depends on your application and tolerance for failures. If you are running an oracle database for a financial business, you want expensive servers with hot-swappable parts and built-in redundancy (power supplies, disks, even cpu and memory). If it's a web server or compute servers with NAS storage, go cheap (on the server, not the NAS) as long as you can tolerate the loss of a box without much impact. Dont go so cheap that you are constantly replacing bad hardware. The general rule of thumb for me has been to use raid to protect your important disk-based data, but buy cheap commodity hardware for compute and web farms. Get a good load balancer that can detect when a webserver is not responding and mark it offline. Real life experiences: Bad: Running oracle on commodity hardware was a cheap solution that we were able to put together very quickly, but a bad CPU fan caused a server crash which forced us to restore Oracle from tape (ugh!). Good: We replaced 2 high-end heavily redundant machines with 70 commodity rackmount servers. We were able to drop maintenance on the 2 machines and started just buying $2500 'spares'. Over about 2 years, I think we only ever used about 6 of the 'spares' (the real challenge was avoiding deployment of spares for other purposes). 

But when I try to map port 80 to a pid I get nothing: When I try seeing what sockets that specific pid is using I get: 

Sounds like it's not using basic authentication... perhaps cookie session based... what are you hitting it with? wget? curl? perl? There are perl modules that can emulate a browser and you can write a script to navigate thru the login and fetch the XML you want. Google 'perldoc WWW::Mechanize' Would love to hear of solutions that require less module installation, however.