After writing all the rules and effects of each item on a paper, I need your helps to find a good and structural way to handle them in code (except many nested if-else ). Finally I need some kind of structure or coding style for converting these rules to code and determining the net result of items interaction in each round according to items relations. 

In cocos2d you need first to stop all running action of a node in order to be able to remove that node. So I think you forget to stop the running action and you can fix it as below: 

In addition to the Positioning, all actions (like Rotating, Scaling) are based on this anchor point. This policy is fair enough and you won't get confused when moving a scaled node () to some position because the node's position ( and not node's contents!) will not change in the screen after any actions. ( PS: We knew that rotating/scaling a node will rotate/scale inside node contents) Let's continue with : 

I din't test above code and it may have syntax error. notice I use lambda expression and is works with cocos2d v3.x . Good Luck =) 

In general you can check if any Intersection exist between your two polygon (even non-convex) as below. Problem: Given n line segments; Report all(as k in algorithms) Intersections. You can implement any of these two algorithm in your desire language and use them. they take your line segments as input and return if any intersection ( Collision in your case) exists. Note: Time/Space complexity of these algorithms for collision detection break with k=1. because as you see first intersection, you can stop algorithm and report collision. 

But When I get runnign scene by , It gives me the scene which was running before calling . (the scene which is going to be destructed soon) When I checked function, This function places in some varibale called but not assigned it to . Question: How can I access , just some lines further? ( for example in ) 

Back Story I'm working on a 2-Players 2D game that players play multiple rounds ,until one win. In each round, each player choose some items (1 or more) for his/her car ( e.g. shield, anti-shield, power-up, speed, ... ) and their chosen items are hidden for opponent. when both player get ready, they just sit and see what happen to their cars which move toward each other (each round). Problem As I said, there are multiple items (read "magics") with different effect in my game. Each Item's effect may differ depends on item which it interact with. each item have some positive effect and some cost. 

There is a trade-off between simplicity and performance issue for named algorithms. As you run these algorithms in real-time, your case go to performance-intensive category which need some research in order to find best algorithms for your game. 

As I used this technique, I promise you that it will be what you want even if cards are out of the screen center. 

I just learned cocos2dx v3.3 integrated chipmunk physics engine. Here ,as you see, I create a simple circle with physic as: 

Cocos2D-x 2.x and 3.x have very easy solution for multi-resolution problem ( either iDevices or Android devices) (and I think cocos2d-iphone should have a similar mechanism (maybe with different signature). In fact you just need to set your and then just imagine your target device will has this resolution. If target device really has this resolution ( or some other but with same ratio) cocos2d will handle to fix screen and your game looks same in all devices. And when ratio of target device is different, you have many option ( as cocos2d language, ) to manage that. For example if you use policy, cocos2d will force your game ( and design) to fit target device screen (without that black boarder). 

Although CCLayer also use the anchor point for scaling, rotating and ... purposes, It does NOT use its anchor point for positioning!!! Question >>>> WHY? and How can I have the same CCNode-like behaviour for ? 

In general you can check if any Intersection exist between your two lines as below. Problem: Given n line segments; Report all(as k in algorithms) Intersections. You can implement any of these two algorithm in your desire language and use them. they take your line segments as input and return if any intersection ( Collision in your case) exists. Note: Time/Space complexity of these algorithms for collision detection break with k=1. because as you see first intersection, you can stop algorithm and report collision. 

I had a same project in cocos2dx. for drawing something like this you can use . RenderTexture work like a paiting canvas. you put a sprite ( imagine it as a painting brush) on somewhere on RenderTexture and call . If you this on you can draw on Render Texture as player finger move. If you are more interseted in more detail you can check this example: 

We have a layer ( Let's say ) that includes game map background ( Let's name it ) and its content( map-related objects, e.g. towers and enemies). I didn't use . I tried to scale and move instead. bottom-left and top-right position of map before layer scale and after. 

In addition you did ask about required image size in cocos2dx development: As you know the different size of image is not about game-look in different resolutions and you can publish your game with one size for each asset and your game/app looks good in all resolution with above description for resolution Policies. But we need multiple image-size for each asset, to optimize memory usage. in this case ( as cocso2dx solution) we check device size and mark appropriate set of image ( each image set is in one folder with same-structure/different-size like HDR/HD/SD) as default folder of resource: 

When I toggle this circle static/dynamic in normal situation everything work fine and when circle become static it stop in its position (as we expect gravity don't move it longer). here is a toggle code which works fine: 

EDIT : Multi-resolution bug fixed. Here is my solution for you: First of all Let's sync some assumption: 

I want to use Persian/Arabic text beside English in whether or . Persian is a Right-to-Left and English is a Left-to-Right language and so I have problem to combine them in one string. Scnario: I want to show this text: 1. then 2. and finally 3.. If I write this text in a Left-to-Right editor it show as : ( Wrong Direction: =====> ) 

I don't how you want to implement what I gonna say, but in most 2d game engines we have something called (or in general term ) which can assigned to your card sprite (and many things else) and tell how should your game card handle touches. I can bring you a piece of code which is for a Game Card that I wrote in cocos2d-x engine. I hope it clarify your understanding. 

PROBLEM BEGINS But I want when the circle collide with something else ( in my case screen edge with is not important part of scenario), it become static then. so I use below code: 

About New head's position calculation; Assume current head's position is (x,y). so new position simply can be calculate like this: 

Solution 2: Divide & Conquer Algorithm (Balaban '95) Complexity: O(n*lg(n)+k) Space Complexity: O(n) 

while zooming out, check if distance of red-dot and center of circle is more than circle's radius. (Lets call this distance, d) if so happened, move the circle in direction of V vector ( V = red-dot.position - circle.position`) for x unit. (x= d-circle's radius). 

I don't know how to prevent eye effect, but for the problem you mentioned in question body ( ), you can use technique as: 

I think I can help you someway. In Cocos2dx we could handle collision event with . check out this code: 

In we handle what should Chipmunk do when chcarcter collide with collision line. sometimes ignore, sometimes not. Hope Help You 

Solution 2: Divide & Conquer Algorithm (Balaban '95) Complexity: O(n*lg(n)+k) Space Complexity: O(n) 

Cocos2d can be a good choice ! It recently add HTML5 feature ! It's open-source and free and have a good community and wiki and many tutorial ! Check here for more info. 

Solution 1: Sweep Algorithm (Bentley, Ottmann '79) Time Complexity: O(n*lg(n)+k) Space Complexity: O(n+k) Pseudo Code: 

Important: Remember that you should use finite action when using . for example you should not use for actions when use them in . 

Run DFS every time player go on a empty block. Your DFS should navigate empty block until reach a filled (blue) block. this is stop condition of your DFS. Then in DFS, check if all DFS-branches stuck to a filled block. not your game-world border. if yes, Run That DFS again, and fill all blocks which DFS navigate on. otherwise Nothing to do. 

In fact you don't need to calculate offset for each part in each iterate. just do it for first part. (How?) 

Although problem still exist in windows, But in Android everything magically is shown correctly independent of using English / Persian in any order. I test it with ! PS: I guess understanding the direction(LtR or RtL) by checking first letter maybe. I will test it and edit this answer soon. 

As you see, I tried to use but It doesn't help. I need something to change Direction not Alignment . How should I make it Right-to-Left ? PS: Cocos2dx v3.3 

For more detail just take a look at the official wiki. Beside all above word, I found This Link (from V-Play engine) and Its definition really interesting and I highly recommend you to use recommended-resolution-value of this page for your work as I did. Although this link is from another engine but the description helps you understand everything better. Here is a map between this page terms to cocos2d-x terms: