The only way to guarantee the order of records returned is to use an ORDER BY statement. If you are depending on the specific order of the returned recordset, then you must use an ORDER BY statement. 

Another possibility is that Exchange is doing a reverse DNS lookup (PTR) on your client address to check that you are who you say you are. Using NSLOOKUP from the exchange server, can you get a PTR record returned from 172.16.128.42? If not, that is most likely the reason for the long pause... 

Another PCIe card similar to fusion-io is OCZ. You can get larger drives, but you will pay some big bucks. But if you need the performance (upwards of 750 MB/s) it might be worth it. It's still cheaper than SAN drives. I don't have any anecdotal information... you are on the bleeding edge. 

I believe you will have to put a capture filter for all HTTP traffic, and then put in a display filter for the After you have found a response code, remove the display filter and then use the Follow TCP Stream -or- the Conversation Filter to find the related packets... 

Not that I am in the business of defending Microsoft, but after reading through the following RFCs which attempt to define how broadcasts work, I don't think that Microsoft is necessarily violating any RFCs. IMO the problem should be fixed at the application level (i.e. directed broadcasts, not global) which will hit the appropriate routes in the routing table and only be sent from the correct interface for that IP network. 

Since this is a custom developed app, would it be correct that you have the ability to change it? If so, maybe the following suggestions would help: 

This is a rejection from the receiving mail server, so you would need to get with the mail admin for princetonscoop.com and have them look at their logs. Many anti-spam filters don't give you more info than what you have in your bounce message, so it could very well be bouncing because the sender is in an RBL or other SPAM database. You have tested all that you are able to at this point, so you need to get some help from the mail admin at princetonscoop.com. Good luck! 

How in sync do you want them to be, and how much downtime can you tolerate? If you created an NTBackup image of the entire system, including system state, and then restored it, that should be an identical image of the system at a given point in time, so youll have to deal with UIDs conflicting and so on. it does handle open file copy though, so at least you wont have to take the systems down to use it. note that im assuming youre using 2003 or older, 2008 has system backup which is similar, but not identical. the disk duplication idea isnt a bad one, but its going to suffer from the same flaw as backup/restore where youll have duplicate IDs. agreed with previous posters that rsync might not be the best solution due to windows. 

In one user mailbox anything sent from any distribution list in our domain shows up as being from 'System Administrator'. It only happens when they are viewing the inbox using outlook (OWA is not affected), and its persisted across computers (though it did not happen immediately). When other users view the inbox from their outlook install (ie open users folder), everything appears as normal. Other folders are not affected. if a message is moved into a subfolder, the sender displays properly. Because of the persistence, and it only affecting one user, I suspect some user behavior is causing this, but i cannot determine what. Ive checked the contact list, and its not that. 

the power suspicion seems most likely - how big is your power supply, and what exactly do you have connected at this point? 

whats your source for scsi/sas disks - to replace breakage or expand existing systems? the usual suspects (newegg, pricewatch, ZZF) seem to have limited selection. 

Reading over (and then testing out on a test database) the setup for mirroring it appears that one is supposed to leave the mirror database in restoration mode for normal operations. is this correct? at whatever point it becomes necessary to initiate the failover (im not using a witness), will the primary database be put into restoration mode? this seems goofy. 

Since each application seems to handle broadcasts differently, I think that's where the responsibility resides. For example. sends out directed broadcasts on multi-NICed machines, whereas games might use global broadcasts. In short, the application should be fixed, not the OS in this case... EDIT: Here is a link for the same circumstances, but on Linux. The linux kernel handles it by only sending one packet out the default interface (NIC A in this example). They recommend that the application enumerate the NICs and send a directed broadcast out each NIC. Link 

In order for this to work, the VPN server would need to have another "internal" IP address, similar to your restricted IP example. Routing tables don't distinguish between ports, only ip addresses. So, as you pointed out, if you: , your tunnel goes down because you just tried to route your tunnel inside your tunnel... Another solution would be to connect to a restricted resource and then from their connect back to your VPN server, assuming the restricted resource can reach the VPN server... 

That should take care of the rest of it. You need to do this on both firewalls if you want to manage from either end. 

If you go to mxtoolbox.com and put in your IP, you can get a blacklist report. Your IP is on two of them: 

Go to Tools -> Accounts Highlight the rocketmail account and click Properties Go to the Advanced tab. Click the box that says "Leave a copy of messages on server". It should already be checked since you mentioned that's what you were already doing. Check the box that says "Remove from server when deleted from 'Deleted Items'" 

According to this Outlook 2007 is generating the multiple @s. Doesn't look like it is something that has been fixed by Microsoft yet... Concerning tags on your outgoing email, you will need to configure SA not to scan outgoing emails so that you don't send X-Score in the header. Depending on your MTA type, the configuration for this will be different. Here is a link that may help 

It is worthwhile to note that with LC connectors, it is difficult to change the fiber pairs from crossover to straight through. SC is easier, and ST is obviously trivial. 

may not be explicitly helpful in answering your question, but you dont need a GUI to run wireshark. X11 tunneled over SSH would allow you to run the full app remotely. It works well with either cygwin-x or openssh, depending on if you use windows or linux on your desktop. edited: grawity is right, its not port forwarding. 

When attempting to change ISOs on a powered on guest instance, set-cddrive is returning an error but completing the command. A couple different commands produce the same result: 

Environment: Single exchange 2003 box, running on server 2k3. latest service packs applied. all but latest round of patches applied. Symptom: A single user cannot view any meeting invite via IMAP/OWA. Works fine in outlook, but its a users who primarily uses linux, so thats not an option. They get HTTP 500 responses for every calendar invite they have. Tried in Firefox/Chrome/IE (7 on xp). This isnt new, its just being reported for the first time. Nobody else is reporting the issue. Ive certainly seen this here and there with corrupt invites, but not every invite in a mailbox. Edit 2 (more detail): Its actually just updates & cancellations the error is occurring on. Also, updates and cancellations do not appear when the user connects via IMAP. 

When using apache to reverse proxy, is it possible to forward $URL$ and $URL$ to different servers? Say one goes to $URL$ and the other goes to $URL$ I can obviously just drop further down the path (ie $URL$ but its not desirable. 

can anyone recommend (or recommend to avoid) a source for asset labels? id like foil, potentially with a color logo if possible. so if youve had something like that printed before, please speak up. google returns far too many results to be manageable. 

Ive been looking at monitoring for a while. My org didnt have any before i came other than 'whered my yahoo go'. It appears that most packages out there focus on negative monitoring (ie, this service/host was up and now its not). This seems like a valid first step, but what can you look at past that for positive monitoring (ie that port wasnt up, and now it is, or hey look thats a new DHCP host)? I suppose its possible to have a declaration for every single port/network address in nagios, but that seems cumbersome. Does anyone know of a better tool for monitoring ports/hosts for affirmatively down? 

XenServer tries to directly mount the subfolders under your share (e.g. /temppool/share/7c8d3f2f-e0e0-5263-ccad-1cd32a4139cf). These folders have to be exported via your NFS-Server. 

Are you using Snapshot-based backup software like PHD Virtual Backup, Alike or bash-scripts? Besides fast clones (as mentioned by Pascal), they can also fill up your storage repo. You can see all VHDs with over XenServer CLI. If you see entries with "parent=VHD-xxxxxxxx-xxxx..." then you have VHDs with dependencies. Solution: when you move / clone a VM to another LUN, only the last state of the VM will be copied and will therefore take less space there. After a test the original VM can be deleted, so that all dependent VHDs will be gone. 

XenServer 6.1 doesn't support assigning more than 32 GB RAM for Linux Debian Squeeze VMs. But you can use the CLI for that (unsupported). Your VM should be shutdown for this configuration. Example: 

You can use tools like WANEM to simulate packet loss. It's a Live-CD, so you can put it on a system between your server & clients. 

This setting is not persistent. Put an entry into /etc/rc.local to set it on startup. Please post your results. 

iftop (iftop homepage) gives you a realtime view over bandwidth usage of an network interface. It's very helpful when you want to discover connections which are using lots of bandwidth. After installing, just start "iftop -i eth0", where eth0 is your network interface. EDIT: For Linux/Unix OS. 

I would use qemu-img for this. According to this List KVM as well as VMWare are supported. This will only convert your vdisks, but it's a way to start. 

This controller seems to be a Fake-RAID Controller (not a real hardware raid controller since it's needing a software driver within the OS). You need separate drivers for this. Normally you can download these from the server vendors website. 

Your certificate / private key or Root CA certificate is not matching. You are using an intermediate certificate for the parameter SSLCACertificateFile. Please switch to the correct root CA certificate which will match your kind of certificate (e.g. "Thawte Premium Server CA". Link: Thawte Root CA downloads Btw: your apache logs seems to be truncated on the right side. 

why on earth would you have a router using DHCP for addressing? the frequency will depend on the lease its already obtained from the DHCP server. powercycling should also force it to recheck, as will configuring the interface statically and then switching back to DHCP. 

So the short answer is that the temp directory for those users was set to something it shouldnt have been. 

im a bit fuzzy on this, as its been a while and i dont have the server in question in front of me, but i think i had a similar problem. we had a sharepoint services site that absolutely would not back up at all no matter what i did - until i created a share with write access for the guest user (i think). this is really a terrible answer, and ill update it later with more detail. UPDATE: mine is also implemented using stsadmin, per a commenter above. i did not enumerate any specific sites or hosts other than the machine that is hosting sharepoint itself. 

both produce: Set-CDDrive Operation is not valid due to the current state of the object What state might that be? Is set-cddrive dependent on either CusomizeVM_Task or ReconfigVM_Task? The kicker here is that the operation appears to succeed, even though it returns an error. Edit: error has now changed to "ide0:0 already exists" without any changes to scripting. Found this KB, indicating it might be a bug: $URL$ 

Given the windows PCL separator page with escape character '\' (without quotes), how would i set an arbitrary line to red, and then the next line back to black? heres the file so far: \ \H1B\L%-12345x@PJL ENTER LANGUAGE=PCL \U\L \H1B\L&l1T\0 \M\B\S\N\U \U\LJob : \I \U\LDate: \D \U\LTime: \T \U\L \U\L Please be sure to take only your documents \U\L \E ive been asked to make the please be sure part red 

Troubleshooting an issue with an FTP connection going through an iptables firewall and seeing some strange issues with passive mode. We are trying to connect to an FTP server and get the directory listing, and it seems to work in PASV mode in all cases, but times out when EPSV is sent instead. The server understand EPSV, because that works with iptables disabled. tcpdump shows the client sending the EPSV request, and then the server does not respond after EPSV is sent. if the client sends PASV, everything works as expected. nf_conntrack, nf_conntrack_ftp, nf_nat, and nf_nat_ftp are all loaded and the appropriate rules are in place.