There may be a more efficient solution, but you can get the job done with a little help from AutoHotkey. First, compile the following script: 

This is not a bad solution, but I'm curious to know if it's possible to bypass 'typing' in a path and go directly to any specific section. 

Now, when you have Pandora.com open and you press your play/pause key, the script will click play/pause on Pandora.com and return you back to where you were. 

Applying the following CSS using Stylish or userChrome.css will style the blank New Tab page appropriately! 

Assuming that you are currently in the directory where is located, or is in a %Path% directory. Example: 

Mozilla has documentation on Firefox's Chrome URLs, but the list is rather incomplete. I found another article on the same topic, but unfortunately, the information is terribly out-of-date (Firefox 1.0). The first article does give instructions for finding Chrome URLs, but before I spend time making my own list, I am wondering if a more complete list already exists. 

No. Currently, the only features available through Firefox Sync's web interface are the following administrative actions: 

Try installing Google Chrome Frame from the official page: $URL$ Alternatively, you can use Google Chrome Portable. 

Yes. That path is correct. If the folder or do not exist, you can simply create them yourself. For any changes to be applied, you must first restart Firefox. For this reason, I recommend the Stylish add-on, as it is more flexible. For Windows 7, the default path is: 

I've come up with a solution using AutoHotkey. Compile the script and then run the executable. Your IP address will be quickly copied to the clipboard! This takes the first address from the the output of . If you need help customizing the script, just let me know. :) Download: $URL$ 784 KB, Windows 7 

Easy: I have discovered a trick! When you search within the Firefox Bookmarks Library, it will return a list of bookmarks that contain your sequence of characters in any of their fields. 99% percent* of bookmarks will contain a period in their location. If you search using , it should list all of your bookmarks. If not, the space character seems to function as a wildcard. After, you've listed all the bookmarks, click the Keyword tab to sort. :) 

This is not a direct solution to your problem, but you can install and use Firefox Portable without administrator privileges. From my experience, there is no difference in performance when installed on the same media as a normal Firefox installation. 

Also, you can reuse a hotkey for different applications using the #IfWinActive condition. For example, if Down, End moves the cursor to the end of the next line in ApplicationX, but Ctrl+Shift+End does the same in ApplicationY, you can define a new, shared hotkey Alt+Down like so: 

Going to (the default behavior) opens up the Add-ons Manager with the Navigation toolbar hidden. However, there is an alternative Chrome URL for this page: 

Create a new folder in the Bookmarks Menu. Since we will be using the keyboard, give it a name that can be accessed with one keystroke, i.e. the first character is unique. I chose . Move your bookmark to this folder, renaming them to begin with a character. This character will be used as part of the hotkey. For example, . Now, let's be sure we can click the bookmark using the keyboard. Pressing Alt, B, . should nagivate like so: 

* Deploystudio - is in linux and once you create the partition and clone it it works wonderful * Acronis - I have used for many years and still with same old version 10 now i think it is 13-14? but this has a feature for a hidden partition so instead of creating a 3rd partition that can been seen. Use this and it will ask to take partition space from another drive and you will not see it beside the disk management and say you OS gets corrupted you can restore in minutes than hours the exact same settings and all - I just say if you do this make the hidden partition with a password - this will prevent anyone going in destroying the image like spyware, malware. * Ghost will do similar as acronis except you can make it external and boot from external to usb stick to place your image back to normal. Hope this helps tell me what you have done and how it went. Sifu - iOSGenius.com 

Hello so for the double partition and windows image - I to have gone through many troubleshooting on this. 1st - Well first of all could you remove the hard drive and connect it via external enclosure or hard drive a pater via usb? if so then great and yes it is long and time consuming the best way to make sure you have a copy of the photos. 2nd - Yes when doing a custom install or regular install windows would create a windows old, not in this windows old it would have all you saved settings and directories in tact so you can go to them later and retrieve what you want and delete say windows.old folder after you copied everything to the new directory. Only fault program here is that you will not have a clean os install, technically you will, but later you will incur this problem all over again - So i rather go option 1 or 2 once you have a backup of all files when you can then perform a clean install. 3rd - I have worked in many enterprises and they tend to have 3 separate partitions and i have tried this as personal but more like in the 2 partition and 1 hidden partition. c: OS drive is main windows and installs only - give at least 50gb or more depending of what applications you be installing. d: DATA drive is my data drive and of course if you run into an issue that c drive will not boot up then you can perform a clean install on the c:drive and you can be getting back to normal really quick. Though understand if you do a clean install with out applications then you would have to link and install application all over again to your d: DATA Drive. Now for the hidden partition as large as the C: OS Drive or less if you compress it, i have used this over and over again and love it. I would create my c: OS drive nice and clean and organize delete any excess folders and clean up directory with CCleaner and Auslogic apps that all applications and settings are set with no login password (just easier) with password is issue if you forget but make an image when the settings and everything is set and ready could be 30-70gb, but all linked properly to your d: data drive. 

The Script: Create and run the following script, in the same manner as Steps #2-6 above. Replace in the 1st line with your scan code, and replace in the 5th line with your tab count. 

Select or highlight the variable. Right click > Refactor > Rename... Change the name. Click the button 

Similar to a radio button, there is also a GUI component known as a toggle button. Both types of buttons can be added to a button group so only one button in the group can be selected at a time. This is in contrast to a tab, which is attached to a panel. 

If the drivers provided by your computer manufacturer are outdated or do not work for individual hardware, then the next stop is to go to the manufacturer's support website for each piece of hardware as needed. For example, Intel, NVIDIA, Realtek, etc. 

As @EKW mentioned, there my be an empty toolbar obstructing the blank space where you can usually click and drag the taskbar from. A quick way around this is to click and drag from the clock. 

For example, the logic of your script may look like this*: *There may be minor errors, but you get the gist! 

Sadly, this is normal. For whatever reason, the Chromium team has yet to implement a comparable addressbar/history feature to Firefox's. In the meantime, you can try the Better Omnibox extension to improve history and bookmark support in the Omnibox. 

One of the easiest, and my favorite, ways to use keyboard shortcuts is with AutoHotkey (AHK). Defining a new Windows+Key shortcut can be as simple as: 

1. Setup So, one little known feature about AutoHotkey is that you can call scripts from the command line (and with parameters). We will be compiling the following script; I named mine . 

If pressing Down, End moves the cursor to the end of the next line, you can define a hotkey using AutoHotkey to simplify the process. For example, if I wanted Alt+Down to do the above, I could write this script: 

You can remove the header and footer by going to and disabling the preference. Be sure to save the changes! 

Demonstration: Now you can open the current page on your XAMPP server by clicking the Run dropdown icon and selecting the browser: 

My guess would be that the laptop previously required a static IP address or manual configuration, and now your network details have changed. Try setting the Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) Properties to and . 

If I understand correctly, you want to set all and related elements to be visible by altering the attribute if necessary. You can do this with JavaScript and jQuery. 

But... If you wanted to style the property on tab labels, menu item labels, and download labels, the following CSS selectors will work: 

When working with block selections, you can resize the area by dragging the handles on each of the four corners. However, I can't seem to find a way to resize the area by dragging a single side of the rectangle. If Acrobat lacks this feature, I will be surprised. Example: MS Paint vs Adobe Acrobat. Workaround: I am currently using Mouse Keys () to move one axis at a time when dragging a corner. It works, but it is less than ideal.