Routers are what route packets between networks, hence the name router. Switches will switch frames on the same network. To get traffic from one network to another network, you need a router. A layer-3 switch is a layer-2 switch with a routing module in it, and it can route traffic between VLANs because it has a router in it. You could use layer-3 switches, rather than layer-2 switches, but your layer-2 switches cannot route traffic between networks. 

There is nothing inherent in IP that defines public and private addressing. To IP, all IP addressing is valid, so your routers will happily route between what you believe is public and private addressing. The ISPs have agreed to not route the (arbitrarily) assigned private addresses on the public Internet. You can emulate that by placing ACLs on your routers (R4 if that is your "ISP" router) to block private addressing from being routed on your "public" network. In any case, you can still set up NAT on R1 to practice using NAT, even if routing works between your "private" and "public" addressing. Simply configure your inside and outside interfaces, then configure your NAT. 

Many Cisco switches can look at higher layer data, including IP addresses, under certain circumstances, and this is one of them. Other circumstances are for things like DHCP snooping, ACLs (e.g. QoS marking based on IP source/destination addresses and/or source/destination TCP or UDP ports), IGMP snooping, IP Source Guard, etc. Other vendors may, or may not, have similar switch features. 

This will set the HSRP priority to Core0 for the root bridge and the HSRP primary. When one uplink goes down, it will decrement the HSRP priority by (not enough to switch), and if the other uplink goes down, it will switch the HSRP primary to Core1. I put a delay on the preempt so that a flaky connection doesn't cause HSRP to continuously bounce. 

I think you are confused. The destination MAC address for any destination not on your LAN is the MAC address of the gateway configured in your source host. MAC addresses are layer-2 addresses, and they are only relevant, or even used, on your layer-2 LAN. Layer-3 addresses, e.g. IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, are used to communicate with a host on another LAN. ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) is used to resolve a layer-3 address to a layer-2 address in order to communication on a LAN. A host will maintain an ARP cache, but if there is no entry in the cache for the layer-3 address, the host will send an ARP request with that layer-3 address to find the corresponding layer-2 address. ARP request: "Who has the layer-2 address for this layer-3 address?" ARP reply: "I do, and this is the layer-2 address for that layer-3 address." If the destination layer-3 address is on a different layer-3 network, the host will use the layer-2 address of its configured gateway, and it will use ARP if it does not already have the layer-2 address of the gateway. Packets are layer-3 datagrams, and they do not contain layer-2 addresses, which are contained in the layer-2 frames that encapsulate layer-3 packets. Packets are routed by layer-3 devices called routers. Routers strip off the layer-2 frames from the layer-3 packets before routing the packets, and they will build new layer-2 frames for the next leg of the packets' journey. A complete discussion of routing is far too large and broad to be discussed here. Your title is actually a different question. Switches do not get involved at layer-3 at all, so they do not use ARP. Switches maintain MAC address tables to relate a switch interface to a MAC address. Every time a frame comes into a switch interface, the switch will update or create a MAC address table entry of the source MAC address and the interface on which it arrived. The switch will use this MAC address table to look up the destination MAC address to see if it has a destination interface for the frame. If not, it floods the frame to all other interfaces. 

I think you are confusing the fact that a router will not forward broadcasts with the need for a router to use broadcasts. If PC A and PC B are in different networks with a router in between, and PC A is sending something to PC B: 

Based on their understanding of the Fast Retransmit algorithm, I believe the authors are giving you their real-world idea of what to expect. Understand, this is the authors' idea. Even your argument is made with some assumptions which may, or may not, be congruent with the authors' assumptions. You could contact the authors for clarification. A simple search turns up a verified e-mail address for Larry Peterson at the University of Arizona. RFC 2581, TCP Congestion Control: 

At layer-1 and layer-2, Wi-Fi is used instead of a wired protocol like ethernet. Above that, the layer-3 protocol (IPv4, IPv6, etc.) will be the same, as will the layer-4 protocol (TCP, UDP, etc.). Protocols above layer-4 are explicitly off-topic here but they will be the same as used on a wired network. The whole idea behind the network stack is that each layer in the stack is independent of the other layers in the stack. For instance, IPv4 happily runs on many different layer-2 protocols (ethernet, Wi-Fi, PPP, frame relay, HDLC, etc.), and it doesn't know or care which layer-2 protocol carries it. Layer-2 protocols, such as ethernet and Wi-Fi, can carry any number of layer-3 protocols (IPv4, IPX, IPv6 AppleTalk, etc.), and they don't care which layer-3 protocol they are carrying. As far as an application is concerned, nothing has changed, because the application is oblivious to the lower-level protocols being used. 

When you discuss a point-to-point link, you are usually referring to a physical link that exists only between two devices. A point-to-point transmission is a transmission from one device to a single other device. This may or may not cross point-to-point links, but that is not a requirement. A unicast is essentially the same idea in that it means the packet is addressed to a single recipient. Contrast a broadcast or mutiaccess medium with the idea of a point-to-point link. A broadcast medium allows multiple devices on a single link. Each device looks at the destination address of a packet sent on the medium to see if it belongs to him. This doesn't directly relate to the 'cast designations since those are about how a packet is addressed rather than the medium on which it is sent. The 'cast references refer to how the packet is addressed, not the medium on which the packet travels. A unicast is addressed to a single recipient, while a broadcast is addressed to every recipient. A multicast is addressed to every recipient which has subscribed to the multicast group (the destination address of the packet). 

You are confusing a couple of terms. An NSSA (Not So Stubby Area) area is not a Totally Stubby Area. The difference is actually rather large. An NSSA area can contain an ASBR, but a Totally Stubby Area cannot. An NSSA area allows routes from outside the AS to be introduced into the OSPF AS, but a Totally Stubby Area does not. These are types are mutually incompatible. Edit: Based on your edit, you need to understand that the keyword on an ABR will suppress any regular Type-3 and Type-4 LSAs, and only send in a default route into the area. A default route from an ASBR, or from the area itself, will then have no meaning. The keyword injects a default route into OSPF from an area if the area has a default route in its route table. This is a route leaving the area, compared to one entering the area. What should a router do about a default route from within the area compared to one from a different AS? OSPF trusts itself more than an external route, so the external default route is suppressed. This can be modified by changing the metric types and costs. 

With ISP load balancing, not only will packets be delivered out of order (out-of-order packet delivery will actually slow TCP, but it will completely kill real-time traffic like VoIP or video), as Ron Trunk mentions, but using NAT, packets sent will have two different source addresses, and that will not work. With different ISPs you really need to either set up an Active/Standby (you could configure some hosts to primarily use one ISP, and some to primarily use the other ISP), or you need provider-independent addressing and run BGP to exchange routes with your ISPs (unlikely, but not impossible on a 1941 router). Also, to actually be able to bond two lines, you would need both lines to terminate in the same device on both ends, and you cannot do that with two different ISPs because you will have two different devices on the ISP side. 

VLAN tags are placed on frames leaving a trunk port except for frames in the native VLAN for that port. Access ports, despite being a port for a particular VLAN, do not tag frames, and, depending on the switch, a received tagged frame may be dropped on an access port. A frame coming into an access port will not have a tag. It will be tagged as it leaves the switch on a trunk port (assuming it is not in the native VLAN for that port), but it will not be tagged if it leaves the switch on another access port. 

A trunk link is a switched link, not a routed link. The port would not be a routed port, just an ordinary switch trunk link. What you need to do is to create a layer-3 virtual port for each VLAN coming in on the switched trunk port. Cisco calls these virtual interfaces, SVIs. The SVIs are the routed ports, not the physical ports. Based on your diagram, you seem to want to create a router-on-a-stick. You can do this. The port on the layer-3 switch will be configured as a normal switch trunk port. Inside the layer-3 switch, you create an SVI for each VLAN on the trunk, and you configure it as you would a routed port (IP address, etc.). 

Networks which are connected are called an internet. The largest collection of connected networks is the public Internet, with millions of connected networks. You can tunnel across intermediate connected networks using various protocols, including IPsec. There is no reason to think that you cannot have multiple tunnels from one network to other networks. Depending on the technology and protocol(s) used, you can even set up a cloud to which many sites connect, e.g. an MPLS VPN. 

If I understand you correctly, you have four bridges in a loop, but you want to load balance. The problem is that STP will block one direction in order to prevent layer-2 looping. An etherchannel must start on one device, and terminate on another device. You cannot channel from one device through two other devices to a fourth device. You can channel from A to each of the two middle bridges, but it will be two separate links, one to each of the middle bridges. The same goes for B to the middle bridges. LACP is a link protocol that cannot be sent through a bridge. It is only between the two devices on each end of the physical link. LACP frames are sent with the special multicast MAC address. The IEEE has reserved the OUI for link protocols, and frames with this special multicast OUI are not allowed to be forwarded from the interface on which they are received to another interface on 802.1D compliant bridges.