Step One Rip the discs onto the hard drive. Get and install Ripping software. Doesn't matter. Whatever works for you, but here are 5 to choose from. You know... mount the ISOs, rip them, unmount the ISOs. Step Two Edit and re-encode the ripped files to something that will only take up half of a disc each. Why? Because each movie will take up most of a disc... and you need to fit two onto one DVD. That, and you say you need to edit. That's where AVIDemux comes in. After you have ripped the files off the ISOs, then you edit them. Hell, you can use at least one ripping tool to re-encode to a smaller bitrate for one of the movies (like, 5000kbps to 2500kbps... just as an example). So, don't use AVIDemux on the ISO... use it on the ripped VOB files after you pull them from the ISO. Step Three Use something like DVD Styler to author the new DVD ISO. Or even use a program like DVD Flick with WINE. 

Virtually any other component, if malfunctioning, could cause this behavior. A short across the Mini-PCI bus (Wireless card), a short across the drive controller (bad hard drive or optical drive)... I suppose it is even possible for a bad stick of Ram to cause the laptop to shut down. A faulty power adapter, DC jack or even a bad battery could cause it. A component on the motherboard that isn't removable... I suppose even a faulty lid switch could give the impression of it turning off. As far as being able to monitor your temperature, what are you using to do this? Not all laptops include chipsets that allow for temperature monitoring (although almost all newer ones do). Not all software can access those sensors. I've even seen where Speedfan caused a machine to BSOD every time it tried. 

Manual removal instructions No third party software required. Tested with K9 Web Protection version 4.4.268 on Windows Vista SP2 (32-bit). Confirmed by @stiemannkj1 to be working on Windows 7. Should also work on Windows 8.x. 

Right-click the key and select Permissions from the context menu. Click Advanced and select the Owner tab. Then select Administrators from the owner list, tick the Replace owner on subcontainers and objects option, and then click OK. Then select Everyone and tick the Allow checkbox for the Full Control permission. Click OK, right-click the key and finally choose Delete. Restart Windows. 

Add a Navigation pane button to all folder types The following procedure will add a quick way to toggle the navigation pane, right next to the Organize button. Preliminary steps 

Firefox settings Many settings, especially the most advanced ones, are not present in the User Interface (UI) options dialog. 

This at least confirms the monitor is actually capable of displaying a 1280x1024 resolution. Still, the proper resolution isn't applied, and isn't even listed in the available modes. Graphic card In this case the graphic card model is an Intel Q45/Q43 Express Chipset, which is integrated in the motherboard. According to the technical product specifications: 

The registry entry determines the delay in seconds; when it's missing the delay defaults to seconds. Setting it to enforces an immediate lock. 

You left out something. You set up the server, gave it an exception in the firewall, you set up a client, gave it an exception in the firewall, and then decided to ping each computer. You didn't say what happened in between. Was it that you started the game on the client machine, and it couldn't see the server? Or did you think "Hmm... I wonder if these computer can even see each other, I'd better ping them." before you tried to connect the client to the server? Did you stick with the default port of 7777? 

That should enable you to always boot properly without having to use that boot menu. Alternately, you might also be able to set up a new Boot Menu with EasyBCD. 

In short, this is one of those times it is acceptable to turn around and tell your superior "I am happy to take on this project. We need to scrap what we have, and start over." 

If it was just the speakers, then it could have been that the speaker connection had been missed when the laptop was re-assembled. However, the headphone jack is soldered to the motherboard. So... it's not a connection issue. Do the audio devices show up as if they have been installed properly, in Device Manager? Does a speaker icon show up next to the clock as if the computer thinks there is a sound device installed and working? Which audio drivers are you attempting to install? The ones that came with your computer originally, or the ones that are specific to the new replacement motherboard that you got? Chances are, since your laptop was upgraded to include a new processor and motherboard, that the audio device is not the same kind as what you used to have. Did you install Windows fresh after the new hardware or did you use the same installation? It is also entirely possible that Windows update replace your audio drivers with something similar (AC97 with CMedia, as has been seen in the past... CMedia is supposed to be AC97, but there isn't always compatibility). Have you tested the laptop with another OS, like a LiveCD of Linux? Download Linux Mint, burn a dvd from the ISO, and boot to it. If you hear sound once you are in the OS, then you know the problem is your install of Windows. 

In this case there's only one mapping: the F13 key (scancode ). It is remapped to , which is the Print Screen key. Log off or restart Windows to apply the changes. 

Creates a new local variable which contains the file extensions to filter. Multiple extensions have to be separated by a semicolon (). 

Depending on the collection, some of the folders listed above might be empty or missing entirely. The and the folders are the most relevant ones. Partitions 

Press Win+R, type or paste in the text box, and press Enter. Navigate to User Configuration > Administrative Templates > Start Menu and Taskbar. Double-click the Do not allow pinning programs to the Taskbar policy, and set it to Enabled. 

AQS was first introduced with Windows Desktop Search, which was later improved and integrated into Windows Vista as Windows Search. You need to install it separately in earlier operating systems. The following query will list all files which are have the archive attribute set and are compressed. It works in Windows XP, Vista and 7. It should also work in Windows 8.x, although I didn't test. 

and are input/output redirection operators in batch scripts, and you can't use them to compare numeric values. The command provides the following three-letter comparison operators: 

Yes, it is true that some motherboards will include settings in the BIOS that will allow the system to monitor the temperature, and adjust the fan speed to attempt to keep the temp at acceptable levels. Modern AMD processors include a Cool & Quiet feature that will work in combination with the right motherboard to not only slow the processor cooling fan down, but also underclock the processor to reduce heat generation. Of course, without knowing the make and model of your motherboard, it's hard to say what settings might be included in your BIOS. So, based on the available information you have provided, if you want to reduce fan noise, you should replace the fan with one that is quieter. 

It appears to be connected to Keychain, and remembered settings for this particular network... and for you, the fact that while your hardware changed, your settings did not. In everything I can dig up, there appear to be two overlapping solutions. The easy and first solution to try is this. 

Now... your motherboard manual indicates on page 53, that if EuP is ENABLED that wake on LAN becomes unavailable. Since there appears to be no direct control to enable and disable it, if you have the proper ACPI power state enabled, WOL should work as long as you leave EuP disabled. As the thread at Logmein support get to detailing... you need to make sure you have port 9 forwarded to that computer's internal IP address in your router. In fact, just read that thread as a good once-over. 

Does the text editor Nano support modelines, like Kate, Vi or Emacs? I.e. some comment I can make in my file which is parsed by Nano to overwrite some settings like syntax highlighting, tabs, etc. E.g. for Kate, I can add the following: 

Note that there was also PySide. Although that seems like it is abandoned and does not support Qt 5. You probably can install it anyway via: 

(English: Couldn't open the start configuration. Couldn't find the file.) (off topic: how can I get those messages in English?) I played around and I assume that is because the system partition C:\ is not on the first BIOS disk. There are 4 disks in my PC. On one of them (shown as the 4th in Windows drive manager) contains Windows, whereby the system-reserved NTFS partition is the first primary and the second primary is my main Windows system partition. A few more partitions follow with other (non-NTFS) stuff. I was able to set the first two disks offline (via the Windows drive manager). For the 3rd disk, it says that it cannot set the BIOS 0 disk offline. How can I ignore that and still install SP1? I don't want to rewire/resetup my disks. 

Thanks Gordon for the link to the Macworld forum. There is this code which might be able to do what I want: 

Note Keep in mind the variable is missing the drive letter from the path, so you might want to set the value to instead. Alternatively you could use too. 

Using Phoenix EDID designer you can extract the EDID stored in the registry, and change the settings to reflect the monitor true capabilities. When done you save the modified EDID data, and open it using Monitor Asset Manager to validate it. Then you create an INF file, and update the monitor driver in the Device Manager using the file you just created. A restart is required to apply the changes. Further reading 

Change the current drive By default, the or commands won't change the drive letter you're currently on; you need to use the parameter. For example: 

Download both chipset drivers. Install Windows 7. Install the chipset driver provided by Gigabyte. Install everything else, and create a restore point when you're done. Update the chipset driver to the generic AMD version. Make sure everything still works. If not, restore the driver to its previous version. 

The program was installed on 2014/01/02 at 22:02 by selecting the Everyone option during setup (Install for anyone who uses this computer). Choosing Just me would install those .exe files in instead. Additional information The hexadecimal-named file is a startup stub just an icon file with a different extension and won't run manually because apparently it's not meant so because it's not an executable file at all. Here's an excerpt of the file content: 

The second solution involves deleting the files that contain the settings themselves. They will be recreated once you wish to connect to these networks. 

I have repeated these results with Internet Explorer and Firefox, as well as on two different computers. So, the fact that your Firefox and Safari produce the same page for both these addresses seems to be an issue as well. Are these the results you are getting in Chrome? 

Iomega, on their Jaz Drive Recovery page, suggests you use their Data Recovery service to get the files. I'm not advocating that, just putting that out there. They don't really want you to continue to use the old products. Now that I got that out of the way, on their Jaz Drive driver page, they indicate you don't need drivers to use it... you need their Iomegaware software. 

Almost always, when audio and video are out of sync and difference between the two get progressively worse over the course of the movie, especially after a conversion, the issue is one where the audio and video components were of a different length. As was observed in this instance, this happened because video frames were getting dropped, but the audio was relatively untouched during the conversion. At times like this, it is best to first check the source movie to ensure that the audio was indeed in sync. If it is, then demux the movie, and deal with the video and audio components separately. 

Additionally, the regular expression will try to match as much valid dates as possible. The variable will be set to if there's a match, or otherwise. The output will be then redirected to , thus ignored. Create the target folder in case it doesn't exist already. Move the current file to the related folder. 

The LZNT1 algorithm is designed for speed, and there's no way to set a custom compression level. 1 Folders aren't actually compressed: their compression attribute only gives a default compression state to new files and subfolders. Additional information 

Download and run SharpKeys. Click Add, select Function: F13 (00_64) from the list, and map it to Special: PrtSc (E0_37), then click OK. Click Write to Registry, then log off or restart Windows to apply the changes. 

If the computer included a solid-state drive (SSD), the recovery partition might have been missing to save space. If that was the case, recovery discs would have been included. The license When Windows is preinstalled on a computer it is supplied with an OEM license: 

Filtering the details Running the will produce a report file (usually found in ) which contains a wealth of information. In order to get the juicy bits, open a command prompt, and execute this command: 

So, this problem happened across two docking stations and two different hard drives? What are the common factors in this situation? 

You are already on top of the two most likely solutons... the USB to Parallel converter cable, and a PCMCIA to Parallel converter. Why the two most likely? Well... because you other solutions are more expensive and/or even LESS attractive. Have I ever used the USB to Parallel cable and have it work with XP? Yes. It is simply a matter of configuring everything properly. Down to getting ECP/EPP/SPP right, etc. Have I done so that that specific Dot Matrix Printer? Nope. But I have with an IBM 2390 Plus. Is there a difference between using the cable, and the PCMCIA card? Yes. The PCMCIA card adds a parallel port to the computer. Just to be clear... you went into the driver properties, and made sure that it was pointing to this new LPT port, and you opened up the print spooler and removed any print jobs that were sitting there unprinted... right? Your other options are to move to a different dot matrix printer that you can connect to, or get a different laptop that has a parallel port (like, a used Toshiba Satellite A75 on eBay or something) or confront the person who intentionally sabotaged your setup and inform them that since THEY have decided to start making changes to what computers are there and how this is all set up, THEY are now responsible for getting everything working again. 

Short answer: the license Excluding hardware from the equation, it is mostly an artificial software restriction: 

Press Win+R, type , and click OK. Navigate to . Leave the registry editor windows open. Then, while pressing the Ctrl and Shift keys together, right-click the taskbar, and choose Exit Explorer from the context menu. Go back to the registry editor, and change the and values to and , respectively (i.e. the default values). Press Shift+Ctrl+Esc to bring up the Task Manager. Click on File > Run new task. Type , and press Enter. 

Opening shell folders from the command line The folders you're referring to are shell folders, and you can't open them by simply passing their name as a parameter. A special syntax is required: 

While Windows 8.1 does bring some improvements, and Classic Shell has a quite some nice features, some things just won't be fixed. Here are a few examples, in no particular order: 

Creating hard links When using the built-in command to create hard links you need to use the switch. If you omit it, the command will create a symbolic link instead. Symbolic links were first introduced in Windows Vista along with the command. Unlike hard links, you do need administrator rights in order to create symbolic links, per default system settings. And that's the very reason you were getting the not-enough-privileges error. Simply put, this is the command syntax you need to use: