It's an old laptop with around 433MHz one core cpu, and 256MB RAM. The device was first running Win98, I could also let run Win2000, without problems. I was trying to use different Linux distros, some of that wouldn't boot. I tried then some Linux with non-PAE like Slacko 6.3.0 and VectorLinux 7.1 Light, they booted in live mode, but were so slow and also the install proccess took very long, and I switched it off. Is there a reason why such less ressource consume distros won't run ? 

Maybe there is a program that can do it. Normally it's better to extract the archive, rename what you want and compress it again. Or trying to use some commands thru the jar-tool from java and 7z, it do not extract the whole archive but only the files needed. To test backup your file. 

I'm sorry it seems to work. It was due the root user, it must run under the default user! Or using the second or third command from the default user account. The installation sequence was good in this case, I think. However by searching the cause I changed something through the root user bash. Which should define the Display under your own account. 

Option 2: 1 - Open the Network Connections on the GUI 2 - Choose the Wireless Adapter 3 - Choose "View Status of this Connection" 4 - Choose "Wireless Properties" Source 

I tried to install netbeans 8.2 on Windows 7 Home 64bit. First I installed JDK9 with JRE9, and I set up the environment variable, PATH and JAVA_HOME with the JDK Folder. But when I try to start the Netbeans-installer it break up and says to install jdk properly, setting the JAVA_HOME, and try again. Maybe I should rollback to JDK 8 or 7. Is there a possibility to install netbeans ? 

On Linux whois have different options "man whois" . As in the description ( Debian jessie) it uses it will connect to whois.networksolutions.com for NIC handles or whois.arin.net . It is explained as followed: 

It's for creating an idea about a scenario or because to a strange behavior I encountered. E.g. A system is hardened, without knowing if there could be already a malware on it. And the Network mode is switched to Airplane mode. Could Malware make use of a Wireless/bluetooth-card nonetheless on the GUI the airplanemode is switched off ? 

I have two music-boxes 100W/4 ohm. Could I use these for the pc, have the output connectors of the pc(integrated) enough power or should I find something like an active or passive amplifier(if avaiable) for this ? Thanks 

We have a Problem on a PC with Windows 10(new installation, reinstalled and refreshed), to make updates the PC was also online. But also offline, the Time is changing randomly to a Date in the Future and Past, independently from the time in BIOS. Why this happens ? Maybe the Time Service can be controlled, on how it get the Time. In the Picture below it looks like the Time service is collecting, synchronizing and adjusting the time from different sources. Maybe I will try to Debug the Time Service, with the win32Time-tool and maybe with WinDbg too. 

Maybe this helps too. JDK 9 does not work yet with Netbeans 8.2. You need at least JDK 8 , JRE 8. Open a commandline and type "javac -version" to see the JDK version. In netbeans, under the tab "tools" choose "java-platforms" and add the JDK 8 as default through "add Platform" (jdk folder). Or try to reinstall netbeans and choose JDK 8 while installing. Some answers here and here . 

In windows7 I use the command below, but somhow it seems to not work. Maybe something must be added ? 

The hosts file have other permission/rights for read/write/execute. And even the Administrator miss those rights. It seems you need to change the rights of the hosts file. E.g. 

Another nmap scan (nmap -A -T4 192.168.1.161) showed with the traceroute function, that there is one hop : 

You could also try to start a batch file e.g time_sync_start.bat , from the taskscheduler with admin rights, as trigger on login or boot : 

pause cipher /R:winEnc pause cipher /Y pause cipher /E /S:C:/Users/A/Documents/test /H pause cipher /W:C:/Users/A/Documents/test 

which seemed to work. How it could be done for example with a chkdsk thru commandline or gui on windows, if the device is not recognized as a drive ? 

If the above doesn't works try to foward "locally" the ports 445/139 on your routers. For security reasons it is not advised to use it over Internet. Open the router-managment page with a browser on 192.168.1.1 or something which is set. Go to forward ports and set it to the right port/ip and save it. A short description here 

Perhaps helpful, it is an example for Google, but maybe it's similar to other search engines. Perhaps you already know how to search cached websites, so it could be used in e.g. in googles image search (advanced) : 

At least on Windows 7 professional in the Group Policy, there was a setting to get informations about time, user and successful or unsuccsessful logins, while on the login screen. It seems not available in the Group Policy of Windows 10. How to set it ? 

Normal it's more save to treat a vm like a normal system, so using an antivirus in the guest os. However there is also a possiblilty to scan the vmdk file. Its based on VMware, but should be the same for other products. 

For Example, if for some Reasons, I must change a Fiber Internet Modem. Would be a Media Converter (Fiber to Ethernet) and an Ethernet Router, a good Choice to set up a basic Internet Connection ? Is this Model the right Device to convert Fiber to Ethernet ? How to know if it is Fiber to Ethernet or Ethernet to Fiber ? 

As explained in the answer above I try to use a .bat file to execute multiple commands. /H is to include hidden files/folders /W to delete securely deallocated data (the file/folder that were created in plain before) 

As addition to the above answer. Trying to use the ssh-server this and installing and configuring a package from Cygwin for X11 frowarding, here It seems you need to install some libraries in mac for the ssh-client. 

For example on a soundcard, which have two from three connectors. If you would for example using a headset as microphone, what should be changed in the cable or connector, maybe just plus and minus of the headset-cable ? Here a possible wire connection of a microphone: 

On the Host System I could find the NAT "vmnet8" Interface which showed the IP address "192.168.127.2". What might be the device with this IP "192.168.1.161" ? 

So I could get back the original format. Is there some configuration which might hold the format directly when copying the file between Linux and Windows ? 

4 - (If 3 didn't work)In Windows use EasyBCD to set the boot-configuration. 5 - Or instead of 4, use the Boot-repair-tool on boot then choose recommended repair. Here an explain for bios or uefi: 

For testing purposes, I got a connection with an icmp-shell (Master- Linux, Slave - Windows). How may I monitor icmp-connections with the windows netstat-tool ? I tried: 

I was thinking reading about port mirroring, which might have different proprietary names. I know this should be a feature that may be enabled on a, e.g. managed switch. Could it be also set up for example on a router with firewall, through firewall rules ? Using e.g. tcpdump or wireshark where should the monitoring-software be installed and how to set it ? E.g. commands : 

I tried to connect to some other vm- and not vm-machines, so I tried to ping it. The host system is Windows 7 and on other machine Windows 10. As VM's(vmWare) I'm using Kali Linux, on vm-debian I didn't have had the issue. I configured the VM's network, in Bridged as in NAT too. The VM get's an IP in both bridged and nat-modus, and can access the internet. The vm can ping everytime the router which gives IP's through dhcp. The vm could ping sometimes the host and other vm on the same machine, but if the vm's are on other machines within the same lan, it won't work. The Host in one or other machine may however ping the vm on the ohter machine. I tried to disable and enable the network interface and to disable the firewall of the host system, but it seems not to work. What could be the cause ? Thanks 

There are few vm-clients, and from one of those I launched a scan. A nmap scan (nmap -sP "Routers_IP_range") revealed some hosts up. There is just one Host, I couldn't find. 

However when I move the file to another system it's not encrypted. Maybe I miss something in the execution of the command ? 

There seems to be a Problem with the last Login Time showed on the Login Screen. Sometimes when I login, on the Screen the Time is wrong. I checked the Log in the Event viewer, and the Time there is as I logged in the last Time(as I remember) and not as the Login Screen wrongly showed. Maybe someone have had the same Issue, and knows what could be the cause ? 

Did you mean with "now when I start my computer", that you pushed the power button before ? Try to hold down the "CTRL", "ALT" and "DELETE" -key at the same time, after the screen changes, you might choose among different choices. E.g. choose start Taskmanager and start a process e.g. "dvm.exe", it will start the GUI. You might also choose to restart your System(reboot), from the choices, which will restart all default processes. By getting out the battery(without power plug), you can also restart your System. 

It was a bit longer so I try to post here. Maybe "apt-get -f install" to force an install of the files that didn't get loaded because of the error. Then try "apt-get upgrade" again, "apt-get -f install" back and forth until only the package that has the error is left. Or try "cd /etc/alternatives/" and "ls -l desktop-grub" Should give you something like lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 54 Mär 10 17:59 desktop-grub -> /usr/share/desktop-base/active-theme/grub/grub-4x3.png . Maybe some links are broken and you could try to fix it with yes '' | update-alternatives --force --all 

You could try to change the registry key with the one below, there you should have the possibilty to customize it: 

There might be different methods. You might try to edit the entry manually in etc/grub.d or try this: 

I have not an encyrption software to encrypt the whole harddisk or partition. It's wrong to think to encrypt the folder System32 gives some security against hackers and malware ? I tried to run the command as administrator, but the verbose output shows me access denied of all folders and files in C:/windows/system32. 

As addition to the above answers. It depends perhaps also on the browser you use, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Edge, Opera, and so on. They have commonly a feature activiated or not "autocomplete url" or some add on's , but it might be also a problem with the hostfile or dns of provider. Cheking the host files: 

Sometimes depending on how the files were copied to the device, it stops to play, randomly on a part of the memory. On linux/debian I tried to use carefully: 

1 - Settings - Change PC-Settings 2 - Update and Recovery - Recovery 3 - Remove everything and reinstall Windows - Get started 4 - (or this for refresh) Refresh your PC without affecting your files - Get started You might also try to boot up with the original Windows8.1 DVD or with "F6" or "F8" and choose automatic Repair-mode and search for the settings. 

As addition to the above answer. Try to allow in your Windows firewall the respective connections e.g. Port 445/137-139. 

Maybe there are other possibilitys with other tools too. Here are two examples with preinstalled Debian tools. For more information regarding the tools and their switches look on the bash with "man". This for deleting securely the files (go in the first folder): 

Maybe this works, thanks, if there is no other solution I have find these following link. It explains to use an Amplifier with enough Watt powered. It can be used with wires or over Blutooth, perhaps also with good softwares to tune the sound. example 

To allow other accounts then the account that owns the program, to show the own X-Display to other accounts locally. 

There was a problem when I copied a Text file from Linux to Windows. The Text was not as the original, it was shifted to almost one line, also the line break setting couldn't help. The content was from a website and it was copied in the right format as on the website to the text file on Linux. I used then on Windows the comandline tool more: 

You might enable or disable it with the follow commands. Trying to create two batch-files enable/disable, and use the task-scheduler to set a time. Use another name if not local area. 

It's a try, just use the correct java version number, and maybe take a look to the actual folders ? In the bash: