You could technically use Rsync for this: Boot a live CD on the VM, and partition the disk to taste, then mount "/" as /mnt/rootfs/ and run the following from the VM: 

This script will take all CLI arguments given to it as source directories/files, and send them to the server. 

I know that the databases, users, tables, etc. are case-sensitive (at least on Linux). But what about the commands themselves? For example, compare: 

logrotate is unable to rotate a log file for our application on CentOS 7. This appears to be because of this AVC error: 

If you are okay with all traffic going through only one interface, you can simply set the default gateway setting on only one interface... For example: Assuming you want the traffic to go through just "eth0": 

Why are you not using ntpd? ntpd is much more efficient at making sure your clock is correct than ntpdate is because it buffers the update into smaller changes to avoid any kind of shock to the system. And it definitely does not change your clock to a different month accidentally! I would give more precise instructions on how to install and enable ntpd on your system, but you did not specify your distro. 

Sorry that I could not be more helpful. Edit: I also placed this here in case a Linux admin is in need of similar info. 

Yes. Go into Datacenter > Storage > Add > LVM Group, specify an existing LVM volume group, and you are good to go. New "disks" will be created as logical volumes on the LVM group you've specified. 

Can's answer requires a user to run the script and then type the path manually, the following will allow you to use the syntax you specified in your OP: 

The only difference is that you have to include a user to run the cron as, as the second argument. I set it to in the example above, but you could set it to for example. 

The "share resources amongst each to act on behalf of a single operating system" is throwing me. The only thing I know of that can do clustering of resources at an operating system level would be something like: $URL$ 

I have a rabbit mq ha/cluster, and a virtual ip shared between the two nodes by pacemaker. The problem is that pacemaker will only failover if the entire active host goes down, but not if rabbit mq goes down on the active host. I can't just add rabbit mq as a resource because pacemaker will stop the service on the passive host, which will stop rabbit mq from syncing messages... How do I make the virtual ip failover if rabbit mq goes down on the active host? (I'm traveling, so I had to fill this out on my phone. I apologize for any typos.) 

It is company policy for admins to login to the servers via a personal username, and then run to become root. Upon running , sudo will create an environmental variable called , which contains the original user's username. Is there a way to log ALL commands within syslog with something akin to the following syntax: 

While appears to be the next best thing since sliced bread, I thought I'd post an alternative... You can use piping to unzip the log files before grepping them, without taking up disk space. For example: 

Long story short, we have a small thin client infrastructure setup using Windows 7 and XP for educational use (not Server 2008/2003). My question is if anyone knows of a way to set the Windows theme to "Classic" for all users (for XP & 7)? This could be a logon script, or a registry edit, anything really... 

We have a Dell 1950 with a DRAC. The DRAC is assigned an external IP and we don't have access to the firewall to create any rules to secure it. Assuming the password is secure enough to avoid brute force attacks, can the DRAC have an external IP like this? My gut says no, but I've always worked with the OS, never with the hardware. Thanks! 

System: A physical server/hypervisor (eg. Dell R420) Host CPUs: Number of physical CPU threads available to the "System" (CPUs/cores/hyper threading/etc.) (eg. An Intel Xeon E7-8870 is one processor, 10 cores, and 2 threads per core = 20 "Host CPUs") Guest CPUs: Number of "Host CPUs" usable by a given guest (eg. You might "give" 4 "Host CPUs" to a Windows Server guest running Exchange. The guest machine would think it has a quad-core processor available to it.) (I've made this answer into a community wiki, feel free to improve it.) 

What I want to do is create a regular expression that can parse text like this looking for two or more words on the same line. For example, if I was looking for a SELinux boolean that covered "ftp" AND "home" on the same line, I would currently do the following: 

How do I get xinit to allow the use of a "--" within the command given to it? Please note that I thought about moving the sub-command to it's own bash script, but this is for an LTSP server. 

Also, it was hell finding the commands again, in the end I had to just install LTSP on my workstation and run . For my own sanity, and other looking for the extra-help message on Google, I'm pasting it here: From : 

Note the existence of the line in the middle of the output. Interestingly it always shows up right after the downloading portion of the apt-get command is completed... Anyone know what could be causing this? 

Ok, a little back story first, We have a Tomcat instance that connects to multiple service providers as a sort of "gateway." This Tomcat instance will generate errors if it cannot connect to a given provider. These errors are stored in a log file. The problem is that we need to monitor the file for more than just a given string, we need to use several regular expressions to filter through all the meaningless stuff so that we aren't waking up at 3am because a user forgot his password. ;) I already tried creating a python script that would sit between Zabbix and Tomcat, but with log files (that are rotated daily) that are in excess of 200MB, it's too CPU intensive (100% for 15+ seconds). I tried adding a "sleep(0.000005)" to slow it down a bit, but now it takes to long (> 1min) and still uses 25% CPU... All in all, the solution is overshadowing the problem and I wanted to reach out to you guys and see if you know of a better solution, or anything else that might help. 

P.S. The developers never seem to explain "why" it doesn't work... That just say that it won't. $URL$ Even if "this" problem isn't due to Proxmox, it's generally not going to be worth the effort, because it won't work in the end anyway... 

Now, what's odd is that about 75% of the time, it will fail to boot and displays the errors above, and the other 25% it boots fine. The reboot always happens following the GRUB menu, but before Debian begins posting the typical syslog/boot messages. As always, any help would be greatly appreciated, thank you! 

To fix this, you are going to want to edit two files: First of all, you are going to want to remove the NIC from udev. Edit , and remove all lines similar to the following: 

Obviously it doesn't have to be exactly the above syntax, it just has to include a minimum of the real user (eg. root), the sudo user (eg. ksoviero), and the full command that was run (eg. yum install random-pkg). I've already tried , but it did not include the variable. 

It doesn't get much simpler than that... Also, I've used this method before, and there is NO time for a user to hit CTRL+C between instances if done right (use the while loop INSIDE , do not create an while loop, or there will be time for CTRL+C). 

You may not be able to export an entire VM to another hypervisor, but you can at least export the disk(s): With VirtualBox: First, if the disk is not a "raw" type, then run the following on the KVM hypervisor/server: 

The reason I'm doing it this way instead of uploading the script into the container and executing that way is that this is just the proof of concept for a much more complex application we're building that has to take commands over stdin and run them in the container. It seems to work great, except for one thing. It moves onto the command while postgresql is still installing, i.e., 

This version sets the file manually inside the state rather than including it as the ID of the state. In doing so, I can solve my problem. 

It looks brand new, and kinda like the world's smallest blade. It even has the all-purpose port thing on the back. Anyone know what it is? 

When selecting a RAID card for a project, how can I ensure that it is well supported under Linux (Debian 6)? 

Here is a screen shot of the Webmin SSL config screen as well, for what it's worth: $URL$ Edited Mon Oct 22 10:45:24 CDT 2012: When running the command as Falcon Momot suggested, I get the following error: 

There are others that I am either forgetting, or omitting for simplicity's sake (SAS especially has a few extra, but complex, features). 

I want to allows traffic to cross between the servers and ISP without interuption, but I don't want either having access to my LAN. What firewall rules do I apply to allow for this? 

I have a client who wants to find a cheap way to get a gigabit link (or so) between two buildings that are within stable wireless range of each other. And he asked me if I knew of a way to do it. I said no. Having said that, one idea did occur to me, and I wanted to see if it was technically feasible. 

The result is very quick, and certainly no where near the limit of three whole seconds. Also, this doesn't happen on all hosts, for example, it happens on virt1, virt2, and a VM called nas, but not on any of the other VMs. Hopefully, there's a Zabbix guru here who can help. Thanks! ETA: Here are the stats that asaveljevs was talking about: 

This will search through the process name for . ETA: You can also test what processes will be grabbed by using . is the sister command to and accepts most of the same CLI flags, but instead of killing the command, it just prints info about the match. In your case you would run 

There are several things that could cause this... I am going to assume that because you mentioned permissions, that permissions are the problem: Run the following commands as root: 

If you are trying to mange crontabs programmatically, just create a file in for example, , and populate it with the aforementioned lines: 

I have a few computers on my network that boot via iSCSI (due to dead HDDs) using chainloaded iPXE over DHCP. I wanted to enable CHAP for my iSCSI target to increase security (and learn). However, iPXE does not appear to support CHAP... Is it possible to boot from iSCSI and use CHAP at the same time? 

Is there a tool in Linux that will take a path such as , and print the permission for each branch of the path, i.e.: 

There are several Linux technologies that can provide a similar effect. The following are the big two: 

After working on this all night, I found a solutions that works. Here's a solutions that DOESN'T WORK: 

I think this started happening after I accidently ran highstate with an appended to the end like . Any theories on how to get it back to the normal output format? 

I quickly through this together, so the quality may not be up to par. This Python script reads each line returned from the "lsof" command and checks to make sure that the "TYPE" column specifically does not include "IPv4" or "IPv6". 

Let's say I bought two Intel Xeon's and installed them into server class hardware... If one CPU failed would the other still function and pick up the slack, therefore providing fault tolerance? This does not seem very likely, but I figured I would ask instead of making any assumptions. 

I accidentally installed Postfix from APT onto our Zimbra email server virtual machine (KVM/Proxmox VE 2.1). I purged it instantly, however, it did not help. The following are the steps I took in a desperate attempt to fix it: 

I've done this in Bash before, and you may be able to translate it to PowerShell. Personally, I'm a Linux admin, and don't know enough about Windows/PowerShell to do so myself. 

There is a point in the build process that the container you are "building" takes over, and starts running commands itself. It is at this point that you are getting the error you see. The error is due to the client populating it's own apt source list using the mirror you gave it (file://root/ISO/ubuntu-12.04.1-desktop-i386.iso in this case). However, when the client tries to do an , it can't, because relative to the client's there is no . To avoid this, simply tell it to copy the apt source list from the server verbatim instead. The argument you want is . The full command would be (working off what you listed above): 

My first thought was that virt1 wasn't responding quickly, so I used to test that theory, and here's the result: 

Logical Volume Management (LVM) - Add as many block devices (HDD, thumb drive, SD card, etc.) as you want to increase storage space. The block devices can be any size, type etc. No redundancy (well, there's mirroring, but that's not useful in this use-case). Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) - Add several disks of the same size to an array. Provides scalable storage and/or redundancy depending on the RAID type used. 

I have several hosts I want to connect directly to my WAN subnet, eg., 1.1.1.1/29 (web, mail, and router for LAN). I have a web managed switch (DGS-1210-24), and was wondering if there were any security concerns with creating an untagged VLAN for this purpose.