In addition to the answers by Graham and Jared, you can also change the thumbnail size for different categories such as documents, picture etc. E.g. the Pictures folder: 

None of these solved the problem. Adobe Bridge shows thumbnails properly for this folder. I don't know if it's anything to do with having turned on Files on Demand for OneDrive after the Fall Creators Update (the folder in question is in my OneDrive folder). I can't remember if I had a problem with these thumbnails before I updated, but I don't think so. Update: I think this is a problem with OneDrive Files on Demand in File Explorer. I've noticed that thumbnail generation is pretty slow across the board or my OneDrive folders. Thumbnails don't seem to persist for more than a few days. I sometimes see a flash of thumbnails before it re-generates all of them in the folder. Does anyone know how I can force thumbnail generation? 

where "max_product_id" is the name of a named cell containing the value 16, and the relative reference "A1" is tweaked to refer to the cell in the same row in the left column. After the top row is set up right, you "pull down" those two cells and the relative reference should automagically do the right thing. 

video: if these are already compressed with Theora or H.264 like most video files, it's probably not worth trying to compress them again. Web browsing: If you have a web browser written after 1998, most web sites will transparently compress stuff before sending it and your web browser will transparently decompress it. It's probably not worth trying to compress it again. Software development: Source code and executable binaries can be compressed a lot. However, rather than use a tool that compresses an entire directory and sends it, often it takes even less time to either 

Safe brute-force method None of the other answers' methods worked on their own for me when trying to delete the file association for something like . This combined method worked (Windows 10): 

I want the font, font size and which text is bolded or italicised to remain the same, but the paragraph settings and syntactic meaning to be set to normal (In the navigation pane each paragraph irritatingly comes as a heading, for example) 

Change the thumbnail size Open the folder Properties (right click > Properties) and click on the 'Customise' tab , and make sure that the folder is optimised for Pictures. Tick 'Apply to all sub folders' and press OK Now open File > Change folder and search options. Click on the view tab and where it says 'Folder Views', click 'Apply to Folders' 

I've been given a document where the majority of the text is styled as for some reason. I want to change it to without changing the formatting - is this possible? 

Nice answer, Adrien. If you are sending a bunch of DVDs through the mail, you might also consider sending an "extra" DVD filled with "parity files". That way if any one file fails its checksum, or perhaps an entire disk is damaged, the recipient can immediately use that extra disk to reconstruct the lost data, rather than waiting for you to re-send another disk through the mail. 

"... say we want to write ... does the CPU have to wait the extra time for memory, or is there some as CPU fast controller that handles that waiting time and CPU can do some more operations?" Yes, high-performance CPUs have caches and a bus interface unit and a write buffer so that, after the CPU does a STORE, the rest of the CPU can -- in most cases -- immediately continue to process instructions while the cache and bus interface unit and write buffer handle sending that data out to main memory. Some CPUs prioritize LOAD instructions, so when that STORE instruction is immediately followed by a LOAD instruction, the CPU loads the requested data from RAM before storing the data to RAM. 

hi experts just a quick question, I bought a new laptop Windows 7. I was using win xp for the last 10 years. Previously a friend of mine setup my Win xp and on my laptop he made a partition for drive C, D (data) & E for restore What I would like to know is, is it practical to do a partition in Win 7? Some of my colleagues said that it is not common to do it anymore as it is Win 7. Would appreciate your suggestions? Thanks 

I would like to know what is the difference of the two: "Resolved" and "Closed" I have seen this in the template of ms access db 2007 Customer Database Support. And there is the status that says, "active", "resolve" or "closed". Does anybody know the difference? Thanks 

I tried to do "Split a Database" and after I clicked on the "Split" button, here is what I got: "The database engine couldn't lock the table, because it is already in use by another person or process" Any idea? Thanks 

One way to force File Explorer appears to be to open each photo individually - but this is exceedingly tedious. Another way I have figured out is to navigate to the folder in the Windows Photos app, then scroll about lots. This seems to generate thumbnails in File Explorer. However, the thumbnails generated in this way have disappeared since restarting the computer. 

With the Windows Subsystem for Linux enabled, you can switch to the Linux shell by running in command prompt. Is it possible to go the other way, and switch back to the command prompt? 

Create a new empty file called something like . Go to a file with the extension you want to reset and . Make sure is ticked. Then and choose the you just created. Delete . Double click the file again and dismiss the Open with box (this might not be necessary). Now open regedit and delete the following keys: 

I need to understand this code, when I put this on the revalidation site of W3Schools, it says that I have 3 errors and warnings. Where is the problem: I don't understand why it says that the is not finished. 

is it possible? can't seem to find it in google Hi sorry for this late reply. This would be on a different computer. 

additional question: is it possible to split your database many times? first i'm trying it at home and the following day i would like to try it at the office if it works. i already tried the split and if i do it tomorrow at the office would that be a problem? Thanks 

I'm using windows xp professional with MS Office 2003. I would like to know if it's better to do the image or just simply back-up the whole xp system? I have all my programs saved in the C: Drive and the documents that I'm working on are saved in D: Drive. For the past months when I do back-up I only back-up the D: Drive by simply copy and paste to my external hard drive. Do you think it's also advisable to back-up the C: Drive or just simply image it? Thanks 

Cryptographic checksums are an important part of practical public-key signatures (as implemented in GnuPG and other OpenPGP-compliant software). Public-key signatures have some advantages over the checksums alone. 

It's a tradeoff. Do we pull everything that was in RAM before hibernation back from the disk into RAM all at once, or only a little bit at a time, as needed? We all know that reading a sector from a spinning disk takes practically the same amount of time as writing that sector to the same spinning disk -- the seek + rotate time. So we might expect that writing information from RAM to disk (on hibernate) would take about the same time as reading that same RAM from disk (resume from hibernate). But it doesn't happen that way, because of demand paging. If the OS pulled in everything at once, then resume from hibernate would take dozens of seconds, but after that it would act the same as if you had never hibernated at all. OS programmers typically choose demand paging instead. In other words, the OS pulls only a little bit at a time from disk, as needed. That has the advantage that resume from hibernate takes much less time before it starts responding to the keyboard and mouseclicks. On the other hand, when you use something for the first time after hibernation, there's a small but noticeable delay when the OS finally gets around to loading it up. That happens even when "the first time" you use something may be several minutes after the hibernate. So after resuming from a hibernate (i.e., after you see a screen that appears to be more-or-less identical to the screen just before the hibernate), working with the machine may seem sluggish for a while. As Synetech pointed out, there's a bit of human psychology also involved: Because the screen turns off right away at the beginning of hibernation, it seems like it shuts down fast. And the user can immediately go on with whatever else you wanted to do. But after a resume from hibernation, the user is trying to do something, and the little delays are annoying because they get in the way of what the user is trying to do. 

You can choose which folders to sync - that is, which will show up in File Explorer and be stored on your disk. Unlike Windows 8.1, you cannot have 'online only' folders/files (i.e. no placeholders). Someone with a different account can access your OneDrive by right-clicking on the icon in the notification area and clicking 'settings', then clicking 'unlink OneDrive', but bear in mind they will only be able to access your OneDrive and not theirs through File Explorer 

I have a folder of RAW .NEF photos which my Windows 10 PC isn't showing the thumbnails for in File Explorer (for this folder only - and actually it is showing thumbnails for only a few random ones). (These particular photos were taken with a Nikon D610 that I borrowed - higher resolution than more normal camera - but I don't think this should have anything to do with it. I have a copy on an external hard drive, and the thumbnails are showing properly when I plug that in.) I tried: 

I set-up my router which I got from the provider of my internet. So far my internet was working was fine. I got N300 netgear wireless router. I followed the instructions in the manual in connecting the devices. At first I was still able to connect to the internet until when I logged in the ip address 192.168.1. where I had to do some changes such as the SSID and setting the Paraphrase. After that my internet was lost. Could someone please help me. How to go forward about this? I also tried to repair one of the connections under "Network connections" but I got, "TCP/IP is not enabled for the connection. Can't proceed" How to enable the TCP/IP? One thing more the "internet led" in my router is not lit up. It says that if its not lit up then I have to make sure that the ethernet cable is securely attached to the to the wireless router Internet port and the modem. While checking it, it is so far connected ok. What seems to be the problem? 

I've found one way to sort of do it - use a macro (this is the first time I've tried using them). Highlight the required text and click on . Then change the style to and change the font back. When finished click . You can then run the macro every time you highlight the offending paragraphs. Unfortunately this doesn't preserve bold/italicised, but it is the only method I can think of. 

So I finally manned up and just went for it. As of April 2015, the OneDrive sync engine on Windows 8.1 is sophisticated enough to recognise the files, and avoid all of the issues I feared in the question. I clicked on the notification area icon, and clicked 'Resume synchronisation'. Whilst it started resuming, I copied the local files into the OneDrive folders, choosing to 'replace all' the not-downloaded OneDrive copies. After a moment, Windows realised they were the same files and didn't upload/duplicate them. However, I did have some issues. 1) Because I had not synced OneDrive on that desktop for so long, when I clicked 'resume', it looked like nothing was happening. But rest assured that it is indeed syncing. There was no way to pause the sync whilst it was in the process of resuming. 2) I accidentally clicked 'make online only' on my OneDrive folder in the file explorer, whilst it was resuming syncing. Don't do this. This messed things up, causing some duplicates (with the name of the desktop computer suffixed to the filenames). Luckily, only a small proportion of files were duplicated. This resulted in, for example, a DSC_0001.jpg [the original, online-only, syncing] and a DSC_0001-brianPC.jpg [available offline, syncing]. If I tried to delete DSC_0001-brianPC.jpg and then re-replace DSC_0001.jpg with the local version, it had to re-upload DSC_0001.jpg unfortunately. So make sure not to click 'make online only'. 3) Before I started, I decided to run the OneDrive troubleshooter to reset OneDrive on that desktop. I thought OneDrive would start from square one again, on that desktop, but actually the OneDrive files and folders were unaffected. In fact, the sync resumed afterwards, earlier than I wanted. This didn't really matter in the end. Extra I suspect that one factor that can determine whether OneDrive will recognise (i.e. not duplicate) the files depends on the 'date modified' metadata. Wait, I don't think so actually. Perhaps it is more to do with which hard disk the files you are using to replace the OneDrive files are on. Or perhaps it just gets messed up if you accidentally make files online-only.