The disk is an ST2000DM001-1ER164 in device manager. All partitions show as "Healthy" in Disk Management. This is what my startup file-checker says: 

FTP initially opens a command connection from client to server. The server then opens a data connection back to the client (i.e. in the reverse direction) Firewalls often block incoming connections of this sort. Passive FTP was developed because of this, in passive FTP the client opens the data connection too. See explanatory article and how to make IE use passive mode 

Putty isn't suited to the task of monitoring arbitrary binary data. It interprets what it receives as a terminal-emulator should. See $URL$ 

I'm pretty sure the standard cron doesn't keep a log. Apparently you can cause it to log by adding a entry to then send a HUP signal. Usually, failed jobs result in email to the relevant user. A common cause of cron job failure is programs that rely on environment variables or paths that are set during interactive login but not by cron. 

Notes supports IMAP service. Thunderbird is an IMAP client. So yes it is possible. Contact your Notes admin for details of the IMAP service (hostname, port, login credentials). 

You can check the write speed for the two devices. Some data for Sandisk Cruzer flash drives suggests write speed in the range of 4 to 10 MB/s Seagate say a SATA disk can transfer data at a burst rate of 300 MB/s. Obviously, this may be constrained by the limit in USB 2 of 60 MB/s for "hi-speed". SUstained speed will be lower than 300 anyway. All the above are affected by many other factors. 

On a single Windows PC, you can normally make multiple concurrent drive mappings to multiple shares on multiple servers using multiple domains and userIDs. You have to be careful to present the correct credentials to each server. Obviously this is more relevant when authentication is local to some servers which are not participating in domain authentication. 

From Some PDF in Vietnamese I found in the intertubes "Encoding:Custom" probably means a (random seeming) encoding made up for it's own convenience by the program that produced this PDF. "Embedded Subset" means The program didn't need a huge number of characters from this font so it just picked the few it needed and arranged them in seemingly random order (maybe the order the program encountered them in the text) and the newly invented encoding is based on this ordering. Its not really "characters". Basically the PDF no longer has any universally meaningful information about "which character" it has. It just has an indexed bunch of shapes and a list of positions and sizes where it displays those indexed shapes. 

Perhaps the first "g++" found in your PATH is a script that contains a "perl" command or which starts with a shebang line that specifies "perl" without giving a full and correct path to a perl executable. 

You can export Putty's registry settings using the Windows registry editor. This produces a text file which you can edit with your favourite text editor (Notpad, Notepad++, gVim, etc). As Kitty is a fork of Putty, I expect that Kitty's settings are in an almost identical structure but perhaps just need one part of the registry path changing. You can probably find this quite easily using the registry editor. After editing the text file to suit Kitty, importing the registry file (normally a matter of double-clicking the .reg filename in Windows explorer) ought to work. 

Not sure why my question was downvoted or why I never seem to get useful answers on Superuser, but in any case I finally got it to work by using the recovery console to reinstall the mainboard drivers from the DVD with DISM. The particular command that did it for me is with C being my OS partition and G the DVD drive. I had to reinstall the graphics chip drivers, but other than that everything is just the way I left it. So yeah, easy solution and none of the things I tried were even necessary. 

RivaTuner doesn't detect my dedicated graphics chip (AMD 7470M) which seems to control the fans, so I can't force fan settings. SpeedFan is unable to display the RPM and has no effect, and my mainboard (SJV70 HR) is also unrecognized. It's an OEM machine where I don't have any BIOS options and I was unable to find a compatible unlocked BIOS I could flash. So, is there a software solution for this? Not looking for general advice how to prevent overheating here, I just want my fans to run 100% all the time regardless of actual temperature, like they do on booting. Possible? 

Pretty much what the "Mouse Keys" that can be enabled via the Ease of Access Centre do, only those are useless because they are extremely slow and have a delay at the start. Some more info: There's a game I play that is similar to a flight simulator, but yaw and pitch are controlled by the mouse and there's no option in-game to remap this to keyboard buttons. So what I want is that if I press the 4 key on the numpad (or some other key, I don't care) then the game reacts as if I were moving the mouse to the left, with no delay or acceleration or whatever, just the way it works in normal flight sims where you use a keyboard by default. I don't need the diagonal directions, just up/down and left/right would be enough. Since I won't be able to control the cursor speed I'll need some way to set a fixed speed that feels right in the game, preferably separately for each axis. Edit: Since mapping some keys to joystick axes would also work I tried to find a program that does this, but no luck. It seems everyone needs to map joystick buttons to keys on the keyboard, but not the other way around. Surely this can't be that difficult? 

Edit: There is a Microsoft tool called IIS that is described as a web server but seems to have capabilities related to setting processor affinity for pools of applications. Does anyone have experience with this IIS and can tell me whether (and how) it can be used for my purposes? 

One of the reasons I want to do this is that Windows usually distributes the CPU load evenly over all processors, but when you run a CPU-heavy single-thread process it often runs significantly slower than it could simply because 20% of the core it runs on is already occupied by other processes, and Windows seems incapable of moving those processes to other cores at runtime effectively. I know how to set processor affinity in Process Explorer, but a) this isn't permanent, b) you can't set default values for unknown processes, and c) it really isn't an option for the myriad of Windows' background processes. I'm basically looking for a solution where the OS automatically uses core 1 and user applications by default use cores 4/5/6, with me being able to specify in advance for certain processes to be moved to cores 2 respectively 3 instead. Is something like this possible? I'm running 64-bit Windows Server 2008 R2 Datacenter, but it's the Windows 7 kernel so solutions for Windows 7 might also apply. 

You should validate your HTML and CSS using the W3 validator get it clean and then see if Safari on Mac can render it. Check that the browser isn't replaying a cached copy of an older version of your page. In the worst case you may have to close and re-load the browser. Some browsers let you override the local cache by forcing a reload using a key combination such as Ctrl+F5. There may be something similar for Safari on Mac. Use "View Source" to check that the browser is receiving the latest version of your page. You can explicitly fetch external CSS to see if your browser is fetching the latest version of the CSS. 

If you have an existing client-server application that uses server port 2020, you can use SSH tunneling to encrypt it. The client is whichever computer initiates the connection, e.g. your "serverA" might act as the client. 

So OS X's graphical shell does not sit atop a BSD kernel. The kernel is a hybrid one and I believe it is therefore not the same as any kernel in any mainstream system from FreeBSD, OpenBSD, NetBSD or any other BSD variant. Only a relatively small (but important) part of BSD is in OSX. 

The headers and footers were inserted using Insert -> header -> blank (3 column). When printed I get 1 page with aa, bb, cc, pp in correct position (no other text) 1 blank page 1 page with qq in correct position (no other text) 1 blank page 1 page with rr in correct position (no other text) 1 blank page 1 page with lorem ipsum dolor in correct position (no headers or footers) If I use a Laserjet 2100 driver I get 1 correct page. 

stty sane Probably the program sets some terminal settings (see ) and when you interrupt it with Ctrl+C the program does not catch the interrupt and clean up (i.e restore to normal) the terminal settings but just exits. It may be just the (echo input characters) setting that needs resetting, but it is probably others too. Just use the command to restore sanity to your terminal settings. Alternatively you should be able to use to save current terminal settings before running your program. After interrupting the program, use to restore those specific settings. Try first, it should do all you need. 

Use the ls option normally it will not color output to a pipeline - for obvious reasons. The man page says 

You must keep the DHCP ranges separate. Otherwise two PCs talking to different DHCP servers might get the same IP-address. If your current arrangement works, I see no reason to change it. Normally, for a small LAN, you'd have one router plus a couple of wireless extenders and have one router allocate the DHCP addresses. 

The SOAP response is determined by the service definition (i.e. WSDL) outside that it is common to use appropriate HTTP response codes for circumstances outside the "contract". Rather than being lazy and using 500, I'd choose from: 

This can be caused by anti-virus and/or firewall software (e.g. McAfee, Kaspersky, Comodo). If you only have the Windows 7 Firewall, try Network and Sharing -> Windows Firewall -> Restore Defaults 

You wrote "any ideas" so I'm assuming you mean any. If you can transcribe it into text, that will work best. It does require that the person reading the resulting web page has a suitable font containing those characters, however most people have Arial Unicode which covers a large number of scripts. If you can use OCR, that might help with the transcription task.