Athan, As other guys suggested, you would need to provide more information but you need to bear in mind that pinging and browsing are different.Also we don't know where you are pinging. Browsing first of all requires connectivity to the target node, do you have it? If yes, then drill down on other mechanisms. Does your DNS work? Can you resolve addresses? Did you try doing nslookup? You say some nodes can access while others can't. Is there a difference in their DNS configuration? Have you checked your devices' logs for any event that may give you a clue? So I ended up asking more questions then you unfortunately. 

If I understand you correctly, you could remove the application of ACL from the interface first, edit or rewrite (copy-paste) your ACL and re-apply to the interface. This is if I got you right. 

When it comes to ISP redundancy, if your circumstantes allow it i.e. you own a Public IP address or subnet; you could use BGP protocol which would connect you to internet with more than one ISP. They would both point your network from internet ad you could assign priority. That's a method. Secondly you could have a load balancer like a Peplink device.You have multiple WAN ports on load balancers and can establish clever and flexible algorithms on it. You don't have to use such a device to use 1 active connection. In theory you could have 3 ISPs at the same time and divide your traffic on the way to the internet based on your source addresses, destination addresses and protocols for example. Thirdly, you could use things like IP SLA commands to costantly check if one ISP available, as soon as it goes down the traffic could be diverted to second ISP. In order to do this you should have L3 devices that can support these capabilities. Hope this helps. 

Ideally debug output from the Nortel would be more useful here, but it's obvious the Nortel isn't liking a BGP capability that the Nexus is sending. There's no real way to tell which of those options is triggering the error unless you get similar debug output from the Nortel device, but I would start with disabling those optional parameters on the Nexus for that peer - stuff like route refresh and/or 4-byte ASNs. Might also help to disable all parameters on the Nexus just to get the BGP session to come up, then start enabling them one at a time until you get the error to figure out which optional capability is causing the problem. 

What problem are you trying to solve? Most CDN's work off of Anycast/GeoIP to serve the requested content as close to the source of the request as possible. I'm also not sure what you mean or what you're trying to accomplish by "finding out what users are doing" - CDN's are designed to be transparent to users to provide a better user experience when browsing the web (the biggest use case for a CDN - there are obviously others). I'm having a tough time thinking of what an average user would use a CDN for for reasons that would warrant monitoring of this nature. If you did want to build a lookup table or a database, it shouldn't be that difficult, since you could query whois or an IRR to get IP/routing information (assuming the CDN operator does the Right Thing and puts their info in the IRR - most of the big ones do). I'd start with figuring out which CDN's own which blocks and then cross-referencing which IP belongs to which block, and then you could make a distinction on who owns the CDN IP that your users were hitting. It's possible, but it will get hairy very quickly and may very well be an exercise in futility (thinking if CDN's resell services to other smaller companies and solutions like CloudFront). 

I think you could either bridge your connections (NICs) at PC2 or write a static route on command line to get 2 networks talk to each oher. If your switch is manageable you could also write an ACL not to allow outbound connections towards PC1 network. Just thinking also, if you removed the default gateway from the nodes on your lower network tthey can stay isolates, am I wrong? Regards... 

The sales guy might have meant the latency advantage. Although the capacity (diameter of a tap/pipe for example) is the same, fiber may be able to carry traffic quicker and therefore perform better (water speed in the pipe). 

Michael, there are many problems with your post. Your topology is not here so we don't know if there any routes at all to route. To be able to route the traffic to another node, you have to have it first. With one ISP, can you really create a routing difference unles you are talking about a more complicated internal network where you have multiple routers etc? Your ISP meets you at your doorstep and takes your traffic away. You don't have a say then how this traffic will be routed. You can check it by issuing a tracert command. Plus if you are writing a route for one specific public IP address, you should give 255.255.255.255 subnet mask. If you want to change the route for all nodes in your network, it would be enough to write the route to the Layer3 device only i.e. router. You don't have to add static routes to all PCs. If everybody has the same default gateway and the gateway is located just before meeting routing alternatives then you can add the route to this device. But Michael,It is not clear to me what you are trying to achieve and what sort of setup do you have.. So I might have just talked rubbish :) Regards.. 

As long as whatever routable address space either network is using on the "External" side is unique, yes, the "Internal" address space may overlap. 

HE is not a tier one carrier, so they likely will buy transit from Level3, or may have paid peering with Level3. Level3 and DTAG are both tier one carriers and thus are most certainly peers, and the local German ISP that your remote office connects to would likely buy transit from DTAG. Forgetting the routing involved and only thinking about the money, one needs to understand traffic ratios. Typically the big tier one carriers (like Level3) will not peer (referring to settlement-free peering here) with others unless the traffic ratios are somewhat even. Unless you're another big carrier, this will almost certainly never be the case. Most local ISP's and content providers are called "eyeball customers", because their ratios are outbound-heavy. Taking that into a business context, Level3's network would be utilized much more than the content provider or local ISP's network. At this point, you're right - Level3 does not benefit from peering with a local provider or a content provider, and it simply wouldn't happen. However, if you are a very large ISP with a great deal of customers and also a good chunk of originated prefixes, but you and Level3's traffic ratios just aren't quite there yet, then paid peering may be an option - often much cheaper than buying transit. Now what if you're not a big carrier? Do you benefit from peering with other people, even if they aren't carriers or ISP's? Yes. When you buy transit, you're usually paying for a set cost per megabit, billed at 95% percentile usage rates, with a minimum commitment. If you're a content provider, it's in your best interest to peer with as many people as possible, because this just brings the cost per megabit of your transit down, because when you peer with folks, you have a direct route to their network, and you no longer need to rely on transit for your bits to reach their network. Also playing into all of this is routing policy of these tier 1 carriers. Typically these carriers will do hot-potato routing. What that means is if Level3 peers with DTAG in multiple geographic locations, Level3 will likely dump off the traffic destined to your remote office at a DTAG peering point as quickly as possible, rather than carrying the traffic on its own network to a DTAG peering point that is closest to the final destination. You also run into situations where carriers neglect peering ports in order to strong-arm their peers into doing something they want. In other situations in peering relationships, one carrier will simply de-peer with the other carrier, causing devastating impact for a significant portion of Internet users (see Level3 and Cogent). To answer the original question - the TL;DR answer is all networks involved with getting the traffic from the source to the destination, pay in some way or another. The longer answer is that if you're going to buy transit, make sure you're buying the transit from a reputable carrier. You're not just paying for uptime and availability, you're also paying for the carrier's connectivity as well.