However I found that Skype (In my case) doesn't change when this is run. So we need to use the optional {Role} parameter as well. 

I have speakers and a USB headset (G35). I want to easily switch between thous two playback devices without having to go to Playback devices and change the default playback device manually. Preferredly using the G-keys. 

What I'm looking for An easy way to join multiple disks into one drive. I which to be able to disconnect a disk without the other disks complaining, they should just display what data they have. Data on the removed disk would obviously be gone. I don't care about performance as it's just storage. What I've tried 

When that's done you should have two playback devices, one called Speakers (headset) the other LoudSpeakers. Using NirCmd We can now use NirCmd to switch to the desired device. Like so: 

Once you've downloaded the program you can put it in either your windows folder or a folder of your choosing. If you put it in your windows folder you don't have to know the location of the nircmd.exe file. More on that later. Finding [Device Name] Now we need to find your [Device Name]. Go to: Control Panel\Hardware and Sound\Sound and locate your devices. They'll most likely be called Speakers. 

I don't think you can change the location of the folders as you install. Changing the location of your Documents and Download user folders is easy, no need to mess about with the registry. Just go to your user folder and right-click->properties on the folder you wish to move, for instance the Downloads folder, select the Location tab and choose a new location it'll then move the folder and all the programs using your default download location will save to your new location. You can do that for most of your folders in your profile folder. Sadly you cannot do this on the profile folder itself. 

I wish to blackout or grayout my other monitor when using VLC in fullscreen. I've searched around and there seems to be an option for it, but I can't find it. 

You can create these using Notepad. They're just text files with a .ncl extension instead of .txt. Put them in a convenient location. We'll need the shortly. Switch playback device using the Logitech G keys Depending on your decision where to place the nircmd.exe file the following may differ. I'll be using the solution where I don't place nircmd.exe in the windows folder. Now you need to go to the Logitech Gaming Software (driver) to bind your G keys to these scripts. Select the button you want to bind and choose Shortcut, choose an appropriate name and type in the path to nircmd.exe and the .ncl script in want to run. 

If you have chosen to download a file without asking where to save it you can set that file type to auto open when you've downloaded it by clicking the arrow on the download bar which brings up a menu with options, one of which is: Always open files of this type. Check that and you're good to go. $URL$ 

I have 3 boot patritions 5gb - winxp 10gb - vista 5gb - linux and from rest i have 3 logical patritions(based on content) I install all programs and have swap file on D drive(logical) and 5gb for xp is enough. I dont really use vista or linux, but i think 10gb will be enough for windows7. 

what can I do to discover why I cannot delete that dir and how to delete it? P.S. I know I will be able to delete it after restaring computer, but that I would like to know why my player is blocking that directory. 

Something has happened keys "qwertyasdfghzxcvbn" work like they should but "uiop" returns "456*", "jkl"="123, m="0". It happens only on windows and idea how to fix it? 

I do know is possible, I remember I have done it by mistake once. I want to see only zip files and folders. nothing more. how to do it? 

I have a lot of movies that have only a few seconds of interesting material. I would like to write some script to do it (batch script?). what kind of tool has a good command line interface to do thing like that? 

Right now I have Thunderbird2 set as default mail client, but I would like to use Thunderbird3, how to do it? 

for example on www.pentaho.com there is a video, but I can't see anything. I would like to view it in full screen mode. Smart developers made that not an easy task. How to do it? Is there any plugin for it? 

for example when I'm in firefox I would like to press Alt+T and have chosen sidebar opened (in menu View -> Sidebar -> name of sidebar) Is there any application that can do it? P.S. I have used firefox as example. 

There is this one site that is using Silverlight to stream videos. I dislike Silverlight a lot, because the plugin is always "not up-to date" and I need to update it all the time. Is there any way to bypass the silverlight to watch that videos? 

When I click link to log file(I have a log of links like that) the firefox opens the file, but I want to just save it(like I do with PDFs). However I dont have log file defined as Manage File Type. How can I add log files there? 

I now work on linux machine that I don't have admin on, so I can't install dropbox. is there any way to download some files from dropbox (by WWW) ? 

I cannot delete empty directory, I would like to know why. That directory did contain movie that was being played by my custom player and it might somehow be still blocking the directory. however it is closed and not visible in process list under ctrl+alt+delete. I have installed Process Monitor and when I from console execute 

I want to play flash games on my netbook, but the run very slow. any way to speed them up? maybe somehow disable video acceleration or sound/video? 

I recently got a new computer and installed Adobe Flash CS6 on it. I had changed several preferences on my copy of Adobe Flash CS6 on my old computer, and want to put them on my copy on my new computer. However, I haven't been able to find a "Export Settings" function in Flash. How can I get my settings from my old Flash to my new Flash? EDIT: I'm running Windows 10 on both of my machines. 

I am using Adobe Flash CS6, and I am having troubles with the zoom feature in the editor. I am aware that there is a drop down menu where you can select the zoom level you want, but that is not usable at all. I need to be able to zoom in/out using my mouse wheel. Pressing an extra button is no problem, as I use CTRL+mouse wheel all the time in other applications. But in Flash, it seems you can only zoom in/out with the drop down menu. Is there any way to get Adobe Flash to use the mouse wheel to zoom? Or is there already a keyboard shortcut I'm not aware of? 

If you have a second screen handy, plug it in. Make sure that it's extending your main screen, and not duplicating it. Press to bring up the Task Manager. Press (or right, depending on your set up) until it shows up on the other screen. Then you can use Task Manager to kill the application that's blocking your main screen. 

I have a Windows 10 laptop that I use at home and work. At both places I have a monitor that I connect to, and I have several windows on both my main screen and my monitor screen when I disconnect the monitor. In the past, I have noticed that all my windows automatically migrate to the main screen when I disconnect. But lately, I have been having trouble with my Windows 10 laptop thinking it's still connected to a monitor even when it's not. It keeps my windows on the second screen even though there is no second screen. How do I tell Windows 10 to move my windows automatically to the main screen from the second screen when I disconnect the monitor? 

There are three things that I identify as "settings" that need to be transferred: (1) User Preferences (2) Keyboard Shortcuts (3) Workspace layouts Make sure that you have Flash closed first. For each of them, go to the following folder and copy over the following file: (1) I haven't found this one yet, still looking. (2) Go to and copy the file with the same name as the keyboard configuration you want to copy. (3) Go to and copy the two files with the name of the workspace layout you want to copy. One will be a file, and the other will have no file extension When you reopen Flash, you also have to go to and select the keyboard configuration that you want to use from combobox. That should be it. I'll update this if I figure out how to also transfer the user preferences.