have you tried openvpn-as $URL$ its free for 2 users if he uses windows or mac viscosity is a good openvpn client $URL$ or the openvpn option in the network-manager in ubuntu/Linux another option is to use SSH Tunneling Windows $URL$ Linux $URL$ 

press windows key + r then type cttune.exe in there alternative method is to press windows key then type in cleartype then select Adjust ClearType Text and follow the instructions, if you still have issues try some of the other examples this worked for me, you have to try the different examples, its much like contrast/brightness calibration but for text instead FYI: disabling 2d acceleration might help to get chrome to play with windows cleartype tune tool 

Yes and No After some research and testing on both asus and samsung laptop, i think i have found a simple solution First you have to have to modify the ei.cfg file in install media 1. Enable OEM install, you should be able to pick both 8.x and 8.x Pro First of all you will need install media copy and paste 

it depends on the laptop some have real easy way to replace RAM, HDD/SSD and Wifi, but others dont, (ram soldered to mb etc) and no you cannot upgrade the CPU (unless you want to change 80% of the laptop), why would you want to?, the cpu is tied to the fans, so if you install a faster cpu, the fans wont keep up and sometimes the chassis is made for that cpu anyhow i agree with james 

what type of display resolution and size? if you have 13.3"1080p or a 4K display?, then you might want to read up on HighPPI/DPI $URL$ 

do you find it in device manager? $URL$ and it does sound like you have installed wrong driver, what kind of wifi card is it? atheros, broadcom, intel? 

4. Actual behavior If I wrote my long commands in Far mode of ConEmu, words from my command don't auto-wrap to new line, example: 

I have AutoWrap plugin in Far by default → I press F11 → I don't find, how I can set AutoWrap plugin. 

Yes, I know, that I can copy my text into Sublime Text and paste it to Thunderbird. Please, do not offer it. 

1. iObitUnlocker I buy new hard disk. Old hard disk I begin to use for backups my data. I manually remove some data from my old hard disk, but some folders not delete due to files with extension. I can not delete my files use LockHunter and Unlocker programs. But free iObitUnlocker program delete files. I need press select file → press Context_Menu → → Left_Click to arrow down near button → → OK. 

1. Briefly Keyboard layout sometimes not switch for me, if I print my texts fast. It would be nice, if my keyboard layout switching each time, when I press Alt+Shift. I will approach any built-in solution or gratis software. 

3. Expected behavior Example: I click to link → than automatically: zip-archive download → archive extract to new folder → archive delete. 

1. Summary If I run Grunt commands in ConEmu, sometimes my output foreground = background. Else I run any another CLI commands in ConEmu, I can't reproduce this bug. 

2. Demonstration (Page may incorrect displayed in Firefox web preview, but if I open saved PDF in Sumatra PDF, I have not bugs) 

Please, do not offer use another shortcuts for switching between keyboard layouts. I don't want it. I used to use Alt+Shift. Yes, I use program for change words, printing in wrong keyboard layout — Mahou — but sometimes I need switching between keyboard layouts manually. 

just to trow this out here, do you have it on your lap? in the middle of summer in +20c then you realy need to use a table or a laptop cooler 

have you tried checking your system memory and ssd/hdd? sometimes the driver can crash by a corruption in the system memory or disk try taking out one stick of ram and change os drive.. etc also try running GPU-Z and see if its overheats $URL$ 

main answer is they are simpler, so you can cram alot of them together, they used to do one task and that was putting frags on the screen. but nowadays they are more general in nature much like cpus. the main reason between cpus and gpus is that the cpu arcitecture is based on x86 and the one in gpu is based on AMD GCN or NVIDIA CUDA try reading $URL$ $URL$ 

You will need to install windows 7 on the device and run "Get Windows 10 (GWX)" and reserve your copy worked for me, i fished out a ancient 7 install media with key 

both yes and no YES: You can use 2.2TB or bigger drives under windows 7/8/10, they just have to be in GPT-mode NO: You cannot boot to a 2.2TB drive under windows, unless your using UEFI/GPT like this You have 128GB SSD (windows) + 4TB harddrive this will work, because you boot form the SSD sources: $URL$ 

it all depends on how good the cooling is, you should be able to encode a realy very long 4k video or some realy long 3d rendering if the cooling keeps the cpu under maximum cpu temperature (around 70c on both amd and intel chips) i think most agree that ~50c or something around there is a good maximum temp with a good cooler on 100% usage forget about laptops, they are NOT made to work at 100% all the time EVER, regardless and the computers usually shutdown if it goes over 70c, to not damage the cpu 

I install latest portable ConEmu version, I remove Far Manager → I remove all data from and → I install Far Manager. I print in $terminal: 

2. Behavior I have 2 keyboard layouts on my Windows: Russian and English. If:     I set Russian keyboard layout in any program,     if:         I move to window with another program, Russian keyboard layout stay for me anyway. If:     I set English keyboard layout in any program,     if:         I move to window with another program, English keyboard layout stay for me anyway. 

1. Briefly I want to write my e-mail messages use external editor Sublime Text 3. But I don't know, how I can do it. 

3. Shortcut on desktop For me, the easiest way to start the shutdown command — shortcut on desktop. Right-click to desktop → → 

How I can determine the cause, why I get unexpected behavior? Is a other way for set application for a protocol? 

3. Expected behavior If I wrote this command in Clink or PowerShell mode of ConEmu, words from my command auto-wrap to new line, example: 

I don't find, how I can add additional bar for these buttons in Firefox Quantum. I need add new bar, not modify already existing Menu and Bookmarks bars. 

1. Briefly I don't find, how I can automatically quick extract or/and archives after loading for Windows 10. It would be nice any gratis solution. Firefox solution is preferable. 

3. Alternative method If you want to delete custom file from folder,     use Hossein Fakouri method. Make sure that you know what you are removing. 

Please, do not offer reinstall Firefox. I don't want, that reinstall browser for each small bag — a nice idea. 

4. Do not offer Please, do not offer, that I shouldn't use and/or update Chrome, Docker and another programs. I need to use the newest versions of these programs, but I don't want unwanted processes in autorun. 

way to complicated a simpler and way easier solution is to try Tinc VPN $URL$ then you dont need OpenVPN, PPTP etc.. with tinc you can set it up on the machines you want in your little private vpn, it does not matter where. tinc will find the nodes it self using a master node that needs to be a server that all nodes can connect to to find each other how it works presentation $URL$ 

i almost have the same setup and i use AMD Eyefinity3 with U2412M 1920x1200 off a radeon HD 7970 You can also make it a single surface $URL$ You can find eyefinity cards for every price bracket. I do recommend a midrange. not the lowest end. just because its nice to have a little 3d perf than none at all Radeon R7 360 and R7 370 etc (Important! pick the one with DisplayPort+HDMI+DVI) Demo of eyefinity from Guru3D $URL$ and i almost forgot AMD Kaveri based APUs support eyefinity as well (max 3 displays) 

Install Windows 8.x be sure to pick the right edition that came with your pc or laptop Download & Run Windows 8 Product Key Viewer 1.4.7d from Softpedia Check the MSDM KEY checkbox, and copy the key Win + R Then type & Enter Paste in the key 

the graphics manufacturer stated power is maximum, but as a rule of thumb, most tech savy people use atleast a 430W psu or higher like a corsair CX500W power supply to power a Radeon R9 270 graphics card with the cpu and everything else it all depends on what else you have in your system, what cpu?, what motherboard?, how many harddrives/ssds 

cores and memory type/speed is two factors that count alot ' and it also depends on the manufacturer , nvidia has less cores but they are faster compared to the high number of amd ones use in theirs gpus, but they are around same performance level a 1600 cores (stream units) gpu with GDDR5 5000mhz is faster than a 1600 cores (stream units) gpu with DDR3 1600mhz another example is a 1400 cores (stream units) gpu with GDDR5 6000mhz can be close to a 1600 core (stream units) gpu with DDR3 1600mhz there is no single factor, unless you count benchmarks 

Googling, Search addon in MozillaAddons site for my Firefox browser, JDownloader2 have this feature, but I need to make more steps, even than manually extract and remove archive. I find similar question for Linux, but I don't find, how I can get similar behavior for Windows. 

If in future I install other operation system to my current system drive, I must to delete all data from my system drive. I don't want it, and I want that my data to write in another partition. In my system drive I have only 100 free GB, but in another partition I have 600 free GB. I use many programs, and, perhaps, my system drive will be quickly filled. 

In previous Firefox versions I use Status-4-evar plugin, but it not Quantum-compatible. I don't find Quantum-compatible in $URL$ site; for example, not compatible New Add-on Bar or The Addon Bar plugins. I don't find, how I can solve this problem, in Google, for example, similar question. 

1. Summary Today I migrate to Windows 10 64-bit. I want to change my system and user environment variables, but I can not change some variables. 

I can find only Globs External Editor extension for solution this problem. I install External Editor → I click to External Editor button in Thunderbird → 

2. Detail I have Windows 64-bit EN; problem many times reproduced for me in Windows 32-bit. I have 2 keyboard layouts — English and Russian. I switch my keyboard layout use Alt+Shift hotkeys. Sometimes layouts not switched for me, if I print fast. If I print slow, problem not reproduced for me. For example, in demonstration GIF keyboard layout not switched for me 2 times. In GIF one can see that I correct press Alt+Shift. Original GIF: 

Please, do not offer, how I can change editable environment variables, for example, or . Yes, I know about symlinks. 

simple answer, get a new wireless AP, you sir have a 11g one, thats basicly 54mbps or ~2.5 MB/s in the real world there is a reason you get alot faster performace on ethernet, as that is 100mbps or ~10 MB/s either upgrade to 11n or 11ac depending on your needs, or use ethernet permanently anyhow just my 2 cents 

i have over 500 (50MB) .tif files and i want to convert them to .png i have tried nconvert and find it working, but there is no multithreading, is there a simple way of doing it in a bash or batch script? preferably windows but cygwin will work to 

WSearch is messing up try disable Windows Search in services.msc you might lose the search in explorer but what the hey, when the pc dont start then its better than nothing 

am trying to figure out how to partition with parted i want to create 2 partitions first partition with EXT4 maximum size and one the second partition with 16MB FAT16 

simply rename the file (file.iso > file-1.iso > file.iso) there is a funky bug in explorer see $URL$ 

disable windows search service (indexing) disable windows defender (realtime*) disable system protection (useless anyway, it even backups viruses lol, and many manufacturers have t heir own restore etc) disable antivirus or try another antivirus (eset is pretty good and low on resources usage) Almost like YLeven said, but set virtual memory to 512MB or 1024MB switch to a 120GB or bigger SSD, and put the 1TB HDD in a external enclosure 

Setup Tinc VPN on both the machine and watch magic happend $URL$ Tinc will create a virtual private network over wan (the internet) and if you have a fast outbound bandwidth it will stream video/audio just fine, i have tried it a few times and it plays pretty reliably inside tinc tunnel (windows share)