I would be highly skeptical of this working well. There is just not a lot of difference between a and a and I can't even get it close enough for humans to recognize most of the time on my whiteboard. When writing text, readers are relatively forgiving (notwithstanding the occasional flame war over a typo on the Internet). In programming these differences matter a lot and even if you found one you liked the interface for, the recognition probably isn't going to be accurate enough to be worth it. Still, I'm expecting that you'll want an answer. Luckily, you probably already have the most popular Windows program to do this: $URL$ If that works for you then use it. If it isn't working for you because you don't like the interface then look for something you do like or make your own using the the API for handwriting recognition. If it doesn't work because you don't like the fact it is getting things wrong then I doubt there is going to be one you like because nearly all of them use the same API. Even if some don't and are better, I highly doubt any are good enough for me to use myself for this purpose. 

The USB 3.0 plug is significantly different from a USB 2.0 Plug. If you look into the USB 3.0 Plug, on the back-end roof of the plug head, there are 5 extra data transfer pins. When the pins are engaged, USB 3.0 Protocol is activated. Obviously the USB 2.0 lacks these extra pins, when it connects USB 2.0 is defaulted having no register of the 5 extra pins. Your Blue Snowflake by all means should work with Windows 8(.1) on a USB 3.0 Hub. Helpful diagrams can be found at this source (page 8): $URL$ 

Simple answer is NO, RAM will not affect speed of small files being written. Complex answer is: DEPENDS on how much data is being written at any given time. If more than ~ 4GB? (estimate based on system taking up 4 GB) at any given moment (high I/O count) then you will benefit from the increased RAM due to the write buffer being used more intensely. $URL$ Computer Science: Data is written to the RAM while a write to disk is requested. File copy may finish, but the operating system will continue flushing data from RAM to disk. This answer is written with Linux in mind. A faster speed will be achieved in your case with: 

Yes, It's called the swap drive. You probably already have one. If you're worried about running out of RAM then increasing this is a good place to start. It works automatically though so there is no need to do anything special. I would not worry about fdupes. Try it, it should work without problems. 

You want to create a scheduled task for this to run every 10 minutes. I'll leave the details of writing the script to you. If I was doing this I'd either use an API for the calendar I'm using from my own console style app or write to the data files directly. This is because scheduling GUI apps is error prone at best. 

This is a side effect of changing the resolution. It is worse when you switch to a lower resolution than the native desktop resolution though. The fix is to simply use the same resolution that the remote desktop uses in your remote desktop session. This is done by choosing it on the Display tab of Remote Desktop: 

Reset the settings on the computer wireless adapter. also update it's drivers. link:$URL$ Update the router by downloading the latest firmware corresponding to the hardware version: $URL$ Then logging into 192.168.0.1 and clicking on system tools -> firmware upgrade -> upload -> upgrade. Approx 10 min upgrade, don't unplug the power cable. Write down the wan settings on the router. Reset everything on the router: system tools -> factory defaults -> restore, to catch any trouble makers. Update the wireless settings and WAN settings, change SSID (hidden?), change WPA(2)-PSK password, manually select a channel, HIGH transmit power. 20mhz channel width (less range but your techy neighbours will thank you), restrict to b/g mode only, disable mac restrictions. half the beacon interval to 50 (makes it easier to find the router, but use more idle power). Change the router password. Hope you don't have a techy child that likes to change things, in which case you probably have to just live with it, gotta let them grow. 

Just replace the line in your .bashrc snippet above with one of these forms. You will be asked for a password for this connection as soon as you log in. You may want to get rid of that using a password-less login. man ssh 

This is a job for TamperMonkey in Chrome (or Greasemonkey in Firefox). Something like this should do it: 

The command is good if you want the window to close easily. Just press any key and it's gone. The second option is better if you typically want to run other commands after it runs. 

As you can see, this is going to be much less error prone. I haven't checked the speed of this but I'm sure that'd be highly dependent of the actual binary contents anyway. Update Just realized that you are working in Windows. Systernals makes a version of string.exe which is fairly similar to the Linux strings program. 

You can simply download the files you need through their website and it won't remember you. also this is maybe useful: To "forget" your account on your machine -- right click the Dropbox icon in the task tray --> Preferences --? Account --> Unlink This Computer. (SnakeDoc.) 

As always, any upgrade will be hindered by the weakest link in the system, keep that in mind if you purchase a SSD, but have a Intel Pentium CPU running. 

Did you check the Create Snapshot before restore? If yes, you can restore. If no, then I'm sorry to say it is gone forever 

You are right on track! Create the sys image before the grace period is over, and input key on each separate comp. Not familiar with Acronis Truimage, but should work! Sysprep is not limited to 3 comps, in fact it is designed to be used for your explicit purpose! SysP Info can be found here: $URL$ The security identifier only kicks in when the system is activated or trial expired. So it should be fine even with a standard unlicensed backup iso. Source: $URL$ Addtional info for you future IT management: Volume Activation Management Tool 2.0: $URL$ 

Update They've changed this since that blog post was made. Now you want to use # instead of ? in the query. Some Tips: 

On the Insert tab, in the Symbols group, click Symbol, and then click More Symbols. On the Symbols tab, in the Font box, click the font that you want. In the from box, click Unicode (hex). The Unicode character code is displayed in the Character code box. 

Windows 7 has the bare minimum when it comes to tiled window support (Windows 8 is only slightly better). What you are looking for is a tiling window manager to replace the window manager which comes with Windows. This is generally considered to be a security risk because it means overwriting some core Windows files. There is a wiki article devoted to the topic of what tiled window managers are available.