Also, am I correct in saying that if I want one domain to map to another via CNAME then the format must have the dot at the end, to avoid ambiguity? E.g.: 

Does this method seem reasonable? Is there a better way to handle this, given the issue I am seeing? If I wanted to make this re-write generic to handle any incoming domain (as long as that domain does not include my base multisite domain name!) -- could someone show me how to form the condition/rule? 

I have a customer whom I will be hosting a website for, let's say it is . I'm still pretty new at this, thus the worry about what is probably something fairly simple: Right now is only used for email, and the email service is via which is a service provided by their broadband company. The domain registrar () is using the nameservers provided by The email service does not allow any access to DNS records. Or if they do, nobody on their tech support team knows how to allow it. Therefore, I can't simply change the A record to point to my http service. It appears that I'm going to need to eliminate the email hosting company as DNS and either use the DNS zone at the registrar -- or change DNS at the registrar to my own DNS servers - where I will establish the MX records. I just want to make sure my game plan will not cause them any impact to email services. DIG AXFR fails; connection refused. DIG @ns-0.airmail.net example.com ANY reports this: 

Edit: the problem is related to the loading of an apache2 module. I found some traces of the problem in: 

My application relies heavily on AppArmor for security. I use Ubuntu to host it myself, but I have gotten requests from others that want to host in on a Fedora or RHEL machine. Now I am aware that Redhat prefers people to use SElinux instead of AppArmor. However, I have looked into it, and I think it is going to be very hard to translate my AppArmor profiles to SElinux policies. Furthermore, I don't think it is very linux-like to force software on the user. Ubuntu for example supports both SElinux and AppArmor and leaves it up to the user. I don't see why Redhat wouldn't do the same. Anyway, most of the stuff on google about rhel + apparmor is pretty outdated. How is the support of AppArmor in the latest versions of RHEL / Fedora? Is it possible to get it working without manually building a kernel? Are there any packages available? 

Which does indeed create a war file. However, when I deploy this war on tomcat, it doesn't seem to work. Tomcat automatically extracts the war file to a directory but it does not become available through the web server. I guess it has something to do with that my war does not contain directories and . Is there an easy way I can turn a static client side web application into a deployable war file? 

I'm afraid to turn off that "www." rewrite rule because it was put in place years ago and I'm not sure what might break if it's not there. So at this point I see no way to move this site and have the old site redirect to the new site. I have TTL set very low so I am going to have to count on the global DNS caches refreshing in a reasonable amount of time (I can tolerate 24 hours). My head hurts. Am I missing anything or should I just go with the game plan to move the site and not even attempt to do the redirect from the old location? 

I have a site which is a combination of WordPress, phpBB forum and a PHP based shopping cart system. I have SSL running, and have always had it for the shopping cart, but would now like to simply redirect the entire site to https. As a test, I simply went to my browser and typed And behold, every page is being served over SSL - regardless of where I navigate. Seems perfectly normal. So, does this simple test mean I can safely do a .htaccess redirect like this? 

I have one lingering issue with DNS for my domain, which sits at a static IP address on a server at my hosting company which has a few other domains sharing another IP address. When I check my DNS at dnsstuff.com I get one error: 

I kind of like hard-coding the actual domain because that guarantees nothing else gets touched, but I would imagine once I have a few hundred of these it may become silly. 

I would like allow to executed files from a user's home directory. From I understand that this implies the following policy: 

I am creating installation packages for our software, which has a dependency on . Unfortunately, this package is not present in Debian squeeze, which ships only with the package . The upcoming release of Debian 7 (Wheezy) ships with both Tomcat 6 and 7. Does that mean I can take the source package from Wheezy, rebuild it for Squeeze and put it in our custom repository along with builds of our own software? Or will this be likely to result in conflicts on Squeeze systems somehow? There are instructions on several places how to backport tomcat, however what worries me is that Tomcat 7 is not part of the official Debian 6 backports project. I don't want to mess up the systems of any of our users. For example if they try to install our software on a system that already has installed, which I think conflicts with . In that case it should resolve this gracefully in the same manner as would happen on Wheezy or Ubuntu. 

I have been using this module for years and it has always been stable. I have recently been installing some backports from PPA repositories, I suspect that one of these packages has broken my system... 

I am trying to wrap up one of our projects in Ubuntu/CentOS packages. The project is a typical web framework which requires to deploy a tomcat war file, create some directories and run a mysql script that creates a new user + database with some tables, etc. Now I am not sure how to package up the mysql script. It should work either way if mysql has not yet been installed on the machine, or when the user already has a working mysql installed. The thing I am uncertain about is how to login in mysql with root so that I can add a new user and table. Should I prompt the user for his mysql-root password during installation? This might add confusion. Or can I just bypass authentication? Assuming the process is executed as sudo either way, I might be able to do a mysqld_safe --skip-grant-tables &, and login with mysql-root without any password. What is common practice when it comes to running a mysql script during the installation of a package? 

Seems like there are no TXT records. Given this, does it seem like I have all the information I need and my plan is sound? I will set a low TTL at first, even though it probably doesn't matter since the MX target is not changing. (edit: I think I also have to consider and -- how do I know all the possible subdomains I need to check for DNS records?) Thanks for any advice you may have so I can complete this successfully. 

Running WP multisite with client's able to use their own domain name. Works great - except the case where client does not use my nameservers and simply has an A record pointing to the WP static IP address. This happens sometimes when the client DNS has a ton of service records (e.g. Office 365), it is just safer to leave DNS there. When I control DNS, I can alias non-WWW to WWW, which makes WP multisite happy. When client is just using the A record pointer, the WP multisite trips on the incoming non-WWW request and lands at the sign-up page for the multisite. It really needs the 'www', to work right (unfortunately). I solve for each client by doing this in .htaccess: 

My hosted zone at AWS seem to be working fine so I am a little nervous about changing it -- but I noticed that my CNAME record for my white-label DNS looks like this right now (no trailing dot): 

Is this working correctly because the system is smart enough not to append another to the value? Or should I just go ahead and add the dot at the end so it looks like this: 

This problem only appears on Fedora, not on Ubuntu or Mac running the same version of curl. I suppose it must be related to nns then: 

I have been using cloudflare CDN on my website (wordpress) for about 4 months, mostly because I was hoping the CDN would make things faster, and make the load on my cheap server somewhat smaller, especially because of the many static .js and .css and .png files that wordpress contains. However so far my experiences have been less than optimal. I am not actively monitoring, but I have noticed downtime on cloudflare CDN servers, cloudflare Nameservers, and even the cloudflare website itself. However, the cloudflare status page rarely shows downtime, usually everything is green OK. Now I am wondering if I am doing something wrong here, or if more people have this experience? Assuming that Cloudflare knows what they are doing, I assume that downtime is caused by DDOS attacks on sites that use Cloudflare as well. Is it a good idea in the first place to use a public CDN for a small site like mine that is not at high risk of ddos attacks? 

The is the name of the nginx upstream backend. It is not an actual host that the client can resolve. It seems to me that instead the client should have been redirected to 

I assume his wordpress site runs on some shared hosting service linux box. So now I'm curious, which versions of Debian, Ubuntu, RHEL, Fedora, FreeBSD, etc, include the StartCom root certificate? 

Am I correct in saying that my .htaccess rule would simply take over what phpBB and WordPress would have been doing (internal re-writes) anyway? Or am I missing something? 

still gives a warning on SSL. So, is there a hint of some sort or guidance, link to a good how-to, or anything I can share with this person to get her some help to understand how to get this SSL working on that Tomcat/port ? 

Other online tools warn me that no reverse-DNS PTR record exists for my domain. I asked my hosting company about it and they basically said "Right now all email is going through your cloud.example.com domain and through the IP address of the server. That IP does have a PTR record, so email will be fine. We recommend this instead of having email go through each static IP address and associated domain". So...is that an 'ok' answer or should I politely ask them again to please configure email for the domain I have at the other static IP address, to use that IP address -- and have a PTR record for reverse resolution? 

I'm at the mercy of a sys admin who handles middleware config for an application I'm working on. Long story short I asked for SSL to be enabled for the application. The app is split up between a PHP layer being served from Apache httpd, and a set of REST services in Java, being served by Tomcat 8.5 (standalone) on port 8443. After the sys admin told me "your SSL is fully configured", I hit the base app at: