Pinned programs Starting with Windows 7 you can pin a program directly to the taskbar. The pinned items data is stored in the following registry key: 

Note The steps above were tested with Windows 7, and should apply just as well to Windows Vista and Windows 8.x. 

At the very least the file needs to be available; earlier versions such as Windows 95 also require . And if there's no other font, everything will look some kind of retro game. 

Click on Start, type adjust appearance in the search box, and press Enter. Under the Visual Effects tab, enable the Show window contents while dragging option. Apply the changes, and click OK. 

The actual book files are stored in a subfolder named after the book ID (e.g. ). The book names help you understand which is which. Copy all book folders and the file. After you copied everything you can delete the original folders to regain space. 

It is located in the subfolder inside your Firefox profile folder. Create one in case it doesn't exists already. Here's an example: userChrome-example.css. Note Apparently doesn't seem to be needed and could be omitted. Start Firefox again. 

In this case there's only one mapping: the media mute key (scancode ). It is remapped to , which means it gets disabled. Scan code values can be easily found through programs like SharpKeys. Further reading 

Download and extract the driver package. Open the Device Manager. Locate the device you want to update, right-click it, and select Update Driver Software from the context menu. Click Browse my computer for drivers software. Click the Browse button, and select the folder where you extracted the driver. Click OK when done. Click Next. The driver should start installing. 

Count the amount of records To check the amount of indexed records you can type , and then specify as the field, which is the primary key used to identify each entry in the document table: 

Right-click an empty area in the right pane, and choose New > String Value from the context menu. Name the new value , and set it as you like. Changes are applied immediately. 

After starting a program, the descriptions is usually extracted from the executable file and stored in the following registry keys for later use: 

Quick analysis In this case the antivirus warning was probably triggered by some generic malware signature, hence the name . Scanning the file with VirusTotal doesn't detect anything, meaning that AVG probably fixed the issue in the meanwhile. Keep in mind that even if some file comes up clean from multiple antivirus scans, that doesn't necessarily mean that the file is 100% safe, rather than no antivirus was able to find anything malicious. Conclusion AVG has just too many false positives. Consider getting an alternative. Also, make sure to always get the programs from the official site, and avoid SourceForge whenever possible: since July 2013 the site started encouraging top projects in using a custom installer bundled with adware/spyware (or otherwise useless garbage). Further reading 

Either remove the hard drive and load it onto another system, or boot any Linux live CD/DVD/USB. Copy the file located in the . This file contains the registry hive, and includes the system-wide installed software data. Copy all files from all subfolders, and rename them after their order (e.g. , , etc.). These files contains the registry hive, and include the per-user installed software data. Get all the copied files in a working Windows system, and open an elevated command prompt. Type or paste the following command, and press Enter after replacing the path inside quotes: 

While holding down the Shift key, right-click an empty spot in the folder you're in, and choose Open Command Window Here (this works in Windows Vista and later). Once the command prompt is open, type or paste the following command, and press Enter: 

Press Ctrl+A to select all results. Hold down the Shift key, and right-click the very first item in the list. Choose Copy as path from the context menu. Paste the results in a new text file. 

Solution In order to extend a volume through the built-in disk management utility, there are some requirements. Here's what the documentation says: 

Quick analysis When creating a blank document, WordPad uses a predefined font. In Windows 7 and later, it will use one of the following, depending on the system locale: 

Before troubleshooting this issue, check whether the ISO file is corrupted. Here are the basic details of the file you downloaded, straight from MSDN: 

Post-processing Just some ways to overcome the limitations. Manual sort If needed, you can manually sort the output by using the command in a command prompt. Example usage 

When the page file is system managed, it will take up to 3x the amount of RAM installed. For example, if you have 16 GB the page file will grow up to 48 GB (49152 MB). 4096 MB (4 GB) is the minimum system-managed amount for the maximum page file size. Enabling small dumps allows you to avoid complete memory dumps while keeping a smaller page file, which wouldn't be able to back them up. Considering you got 16 GB of RAM, the above settings might work for you, or it might not. It all depends on the way you actually use your system. You have to try it out, and adjust the size again if necessary. References 

Manual installation If for whatever reason you're not able to install the program, follow these steps: 

The description is pretty vague, but what it really does is update the application telemetry libraries bundled with Windows 7. In particular, the update is aimed at detecting and collecting compatibility issues that may arise when upgrading to newer operating systems (i.e. Windows 8.x.). These files will be updated: 

Open the Firefox Options dialog. Select the Advanced tab, and click the Validation button. Uncheck the Use the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) to confirm the current validity of certificates option, and click OK. 

Start . Navigate to Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Windows Components > Windows Update. Double-click the Enabling Windows Update Power Management to automatically wake up the system to install scheduled updates policy, and set it to Disabled. 

Basically you need to store the number you want to append in a temporary file, and then combine it with the original archive. Here's a fixed, working version: 

Log on with an administrator account. Download the official policy templates. Open the download archive (e.g. using 7-Zip). Navigate to the folder, and extract the folder somewhere. The folder contains different subfolders named after a culture name which contain localization strings. There's also a file which is the actual template. Copy it in the folder, which is usually located here: 

Solution The following procedure will assume you're using the built-in Guest account, and that its profile path is . Preliminary steps 

Batch script C - Build version check (Internet Explorer) Just like the previous script, here the concept is similar except the Internet Explorer (IE) version is checked instead. 

Open the executable using 7-Zip, and extract the folder somewhere. Open a command prompt and navigate to the folder you just extracted: 

While the listed files are there, their hash doesn't match the expected value which means they are corrupted. All files except one share the same version, i.e. . This means they are included as part of Windows 8.1 RTM. The file has version and it is part of the KB2919355 update: 

Visit the following Clevo support page: $URL$ Download and extract the Egistec fingerprint driver (3.0.15.0) for Windows 8.1 64-bit version package. The file should be around 37 MiB; ignore the name, it's actually meant for Windows XP and later. Press Win+R, type or paste , and press Enter. Once the Device Manager window has finished loading, locate the fingerprint scanner from the list. Right-click the device and select Uninstall from the context menu. Make sure to enable the Delete the driver software for this device option, and then click OK. Restart Windows when done. Install the software you previously downloaded, then restart Windows again. 

Create an folder in your Internet Explorer (IE) favorites. Create seven subfolders in the folder you just created, numbered from to . The end result should look like this: 

Log off, and log on with an administrator account. Press Win+R, type or paste in the text box, and press Enter. Select the account you want to rename from the list, and click Properties. Rename it as you like, and click OK when done. 

Modifiers can be combined to get compound results. For example, expands to a file name and extension only. Further reading 

Solution Firefox uses Ctrl+1 to 8 to select tab 1-8, and Ctrl+9 to select the last tab. You can override the default behavior by using the Speed Dial add-on by Josep del Rio; just make sure to enable the Load in blank new tabs option. Check the official manual for further information and customization options. Tested with Firefox 27.0.1. References 

Make sure the Windows Module Installer service () is not disabled. By default, it should be set to Manual. References 

The variable will be set to if there's a match, or otherwise. The output will be then redirected to , thus ignored. References 

Note The changes won't stick if at least one sync partnership is set up and the Offline Files service is running. References 

Quotes are required to avoid parsing errors due to reserved characters, which would need to be escaped separately otherwise. The advantage is that the if the default browser is open already, the page should be loaded in a new tab, rather then a new window. 

Short answer As per RFC 3986, a bare character is not a valid URI syntax; it should be followed by two meaningful hexadecimal digits. Long answer The HTTP status code you got belongs to the class: 

How it works The registry key was designed, among other things, to automatically launch a debugger when an application starts. While the debugger would start the application and attach, you can specify just any executable which will be run instead, thus overriding the original one. What about ? It's a little stub program which was first introduced with Windows 95, and used to handle the system notification icons. It's not really used any more in the newer Windows versions, and it was mostly kept for backward compatibility reasons. It has no user interface, and wouldn't do anything noticeable besides refreshing the notification area when started. Anything launched in the logon screen runs under , which has no desktop or taskbar, so nothing will happen. Pros 

Replace the file before launching the game. Launch the game. Save the changes to the respective copy (so that the modified values can be loaded next time) when the game exits. 

How it works The registry key was designed, among other things, to automatically launch a debugger when an application starts. While the debugger would start the application and attach, you can specify just any executable which will be run instead, thus overriding the original one. What about ? It's a little stub program which was first introduced with Windows 95, and used to handle the system notification icons. It's not really used any more in the newer Windows versions, and it was mostly kept for backward compatibility reasons. It has no user interface, and wouldn't do anything noticeable besides refreshing the notification area when started. Pros 

Possible solution Use junction points/symbolic links: nothing gets actually copied, and you just access the target folder from a different path. For example you could use the following command: 

Deactivate the license on your Windows XP machine, in case you haven't already. Sign in with your Adobe account or create a new one. As an alternative, visit the Download a free trial of Acrobat XI Pro page. This step is required to set the session cookies on your browser which grant you access to the trial(s). Download the official Captivate 5.5 trial directly from Adobe: 

Short of downgrading the browser, there doesn't seem to be any way to revert back to the previous behavior. 

Log on with an administrator account. Press Win+R, type in the text box and press . Navigate to the registry key. Right-click the subkey, choose New > Key from the context menu, and name it . Right-click the empty area in the right pane and select New > String Value. Name the new value . Double-click the value, and set it to . Restart Windows to ensure all startup items are loaded again. All processes will be redirected to the standard Calculator program. Press Shift+Ctrl+Esc to bring up the Task Manager. Switch to the Details tab, right-click anywhere on the column header bar, and click on Select columns. Enable the Command Line option, and click OK. Check all processes listed, and note down their command line parameters. When you're done, delete the key you created in step 4. 

Test B2 Similar to test B1 without cache-tweaking flags. Flags None Samples Same as test B1. Results Unlike test B1, all five samples were cached. The cache size reached about 30.84 MiB, which was the expected amount. 

Get all lines in the original file containing , which are the ones that track the repair attempts. Remove all lines containing from what we got in the previous step in order to further reduce the clutter. Write the results in the file for later analysis. 

Unsurprisingly, the result isn't garbage free. I'm going to highlight just the most significant bits. Library information While the copyright information wasn't updated since 2009, the file was last modified in October 2013 according to its time stamp. This seems to be confirmed by the build directory embedded in the file: 

Each partition consists of a word list and a documents table, which are named after a sequential 8-digit number (e.g. and ). Both are stored as binary files. 

Note The steps above apply to version ; newer versions might require a different approach. Since DirectWrite is only available in Windows Vista and later, the old GDI-based rendering engine could be removed entirely after XP support ends in April 2015. Further reading 

Extract the content of the archive using 7-Zip. Install the program using your serial number. When everything is up and running, make a backup of the setup package. 

Select the Repair Your Computer option through the advanced boot options you get by pressing the F8 key before Windows starts. If the option is not available, you'll need to boot using a Windows installation disc. Open the command prompt (also available by pressing Shift+F10), and retrieve the letter associated with the system drive by typing the following command and pressing Enter. 

Press Win+R, type or paste , and press Enter. Click Action > Create Task. Name it . While in the General tab, click Change User or Group. Type your user account name, click Check Names, and then click OK. Select the Run whether user is logged on or not option, and check the Do not store password option. Select the Triggers tab, and click New. Change the Begin the task to At log on. Click the Specific user option, and make sure your user account is selected. Then click OK. Switch to the Actions tab, and click New. Type in the Program/script textbox, replacing it with the actual file path. Click the Conditions tab, and uncheck Start the task only if the computer is on AC power option. Enable the Run task as soon as possible after a scheduled start is missed option. Leave all other settings to default values, and click OK. 

Those fonts are hard-coded in the resource file. When opening plain text () files, the font will be automatically set to Courier New. WordPad doesn't provide a way to customize either behavior. Further reading 

Looking for policy-related strings, I came across . By reverse engineering the library I confirmed that the registry functions were indeed used, and that the string mentioned above was part of a registry path being either read or written. 

In Windows 8 and later, the .NET Framework is able to automatically generate and maintain native images based on usage. The Native Image Task will do all the work in the background whenever needed, and there's no need for manual intervention. Further reading 

Workaround As you can see from the official Drivers and software page, there's nothing related to the keyboard. Apparently Windows can handle those media keys directly without any extra drivers. Since uninstalling some drivers is not an option, you could disable the mute/unmute key so that Windows should simply ignore it: 

Get a list of all files matching the specified extension(s), replacing with in their names. Sort the file list alphabetically. Build a list of similar files by comparing their names. List and delete the duplicates found.