From what I have heard they have a pretty large community. In my opinion it is the closest option to the Raspberry Pi community wise than any other similar device (at the time of posting this answer). 

To answer your other questions, you might have to send an email to the Raspberry Pi team. I couldn't find any documented information on the engineering hours or prototyping costs involved with making the Raspberry Pi. Keep in mind these may be confidential, so they might not give them to you (but I don't see why they wouldn't). 

In short, yes, the Raspberry Pi is able to do that. The passthrough device is when XBMC doesn't decode the audio bitstream. It passes the audio information through to something downstream to decode and then convert to analog to put out to the speakers. So if it's a DTS or AC3 (Dolby Digital) soundtrack, XBMC just passes that information along to your receiver or TV to deal with. That's why you can check or uncheck DTS and AC3 capable receiver. If your downstream equipment is capable of decoding the audio information, and you have a passthrough device enabled, XBMC will just push the encoded bits through. 

The Fedora ARM version will only run on the rpi2 (ARMv7). No one has bothered to make an ARMv6 build of 21 or 22 yet. Keep an eye on this; $URL$ 

Because booting worked, failed, then worked, sdcard corruption is unlikely, but maybe a file system check was forced slowing down the boot. 

If your doing any large volume work you would use an "evaluation board" then order many chips to put on your own boards. 

Yes if you forgot about the bandwidth and latency of usb2, but then once you remembered that limitation it would not be worth it. 

Start here: $URL$ vhosts is likely what you want because Patricks answer (running 2 services) requires more RAM which is limited on the raspberrypi. 

If you have installed any applications that use Java (libre office, web browser, eclipse etc) you will have the setting tools for Java (which is what you are seeing). To list installed things relating to Java: 

Please provide your partition table ? If your root partition is boxed in by other partitions you need to move them first. This is what I normmally use to expand the root file system; 

It is doubtful that the connections from a cell phone LCD screen would be optimal to use with your Raspberry Pi. That said, I'm positive it's possible. But, why even go to the trouble? With multiple LCDs made specifically for the Raspberry Pi today (some of them touchscreens!), it is more practical to buy an LCD than to salvage one from a phone and use it. Yes, they can be a bit pricey, but unless you are extremely determined to use this cell phone screen of yours, I would recommend to use one of those dedicated Raspberry Pi screens instead. If you aren't determined enough to reuse this cell phone screen of yours, you are going to get very frustrated. 

You will probably see the Terraria server is the issue. You could contact the developers to let them know about it, and they might fix it in a future update. 

Now I can view a very slow video of my work in Git. Turning down the resolution helps with the speed. 

This may be cheating, but you could use a Zigbee to communicate between Raspberry Pis. There is already a simple add-on for the Raspberry Pi! The well written documentation for communicating between the Pis are here. You can also find out a bit more about this topic on the Raspberry Pi forums. 

All you should need is So I'm guessing you or raspbmc inadvertently changed something from default debian/raspbian/rpi-raspbian making one of the tests in fail. @ppumkin said 

Assuming you don't want to make a hotspot on the pi or the phone, and don't want to use otg, bluetooth, etc; The phone can't directly push to the rpi via usb because it's the client, but you can have the rpi pull from the phone if you want. 

192.168.1.5 is a private IP and is not reachable. Adding the WAN IP of your NAT to your DNS and port forwarding will correct this. 

As It can conflict. (they use the same port) You can also just disable it's invocation if you want to keep using it. This is what it looks like on my raspbmc where ntp seems to be working 

No; The pi B and B+ get a lot of THD around 10kHz (ref). The Hifiberry claims 192kHz (ref) but fails to show a frequency response curve. Some Linux is not supporting anything over 192kHz (ref). The HiFi Shield for C2/C1+ will do 50kHz (ref). No Pi has a dedicated DAC (ref) so sound is PWMed to about 11 bit 10kHz. So, if someone made an amplitude fall off curve for an external DAC, and you found a suitable amplifier and speakers, it might be worth a try. 

This video explains the process quite well. However, it uses email to send a SMS message instead of tethering to a phone: 

After this, I can ping and also ping and in both cases, get a correct response. If your network starts ok, without error, and works, then you can configure it to always start on boot by running the following command: 

Yes. It makes it easier if you know how to program in a lower level language such as C. To make the stress levels a bit easier to manage for the Raspberry Pi, I would make sure the camera you use is the one specifically made for the Raspberry Pi (it's design is optimal for robotics). 

Short answer: Without the source code, you can't (unless you convince the developers to support the ARM architecture). Long answer: Think of the apps on a phone. If there wasn't a similar application for your computer, you could not run the phone application on your computer natively. This is also the same reason Raspberry Pi users can't run Ubuntu. So how can you get the software you want on the Raspberry Pi? To start, you need the source code. Unfortunately for you, it does not look like it is publicly available. If you were able to get your hands on the source code, you would have to build it; depending on the size of the source code base, you might need a build farm for that. 

When Chrome uses more memory than the rpi has it can be killed, solution: use more swap, run nothing else when using chrome, use only one tab, use the official browser instead, use uadblock, use a pi2 or something with up to 16GB ram for bloated sites or tab heavy browsing. 

is what it sounds like; a place for applications to receive input events (like a mouse click). As @rob noted the USB interface on the raspberrypi is somewhat unstable so not using it (or using a power isolated powered hub) are good first steps to otherwise inexplicable behavior. 

No; The raspberrypi headphone jack (0.3mW, 1V) will not output enough watts for the jawbone (2W?, 5v? likely set to max out USB). You can skip the raspberrypi and just use the USB power supply directly. If you have lost your headphone to USB adapter you can (assuming the adapter is only for shape) desolder a headphone jack from a raspberrypi but then your pi would be limited to HDMI audio. 

You would have to find, repourpus, or make your own measurement hardware, like this person did; $URL$ 

Keep in mind that the Raspberry Pi is still a work-in-progress. The GUI doesn't fully take advantage of the graphics processor yet (it uses the CPU), plus many other little optimizations could be made (with soft-float and hard-float for example). The point is that lots of development is still being done, and if you one of the early owners of a Raspberry Pi (like I was), then you know lots of progress has been made since the initial launch of the Raspberry Pi. 

Here is some C code for a server and client. All this server does is send the string "Hello, World!\n" out over a stream connection. All you need to do to test this server is run it in one window, and telnet to it from another with: 

OpenCV 2.4.* does not work on the Raspberry Pi. The latest stable version that works on the Raspberry Pi is OpenCV 2.3.1, which is what your second website links to. The reason for this is the lack of an official V4L driver. The reason you can't find those packages is because they are out of date. Substitute and for and and it should work. Newer versions of and are not available, but does not seem to affect the build. Other than that, following your second links tutorial (where you compile it yourself) worked just fine for me. 

This script can be used on the rpi it is resizing. It assumes the root partition is the last one and it's name is hard coded. backup before use. Read the man pages for extended details. 

All known instances of other cameras working with the rpi should be listed on the wiki. Start with a USB version with linux support (first google hit). You will likely get better results with the pi camera as most other cameras use slower ports. 

Yes the repository must be specific to the CPU architecture you are using. Raspberry Pi Is not a x86. 

is short hand for in bash but rc.local is run with sh so that's why it's not working for you. So just use the long form. 

Wood is an OK thermal insulator so you should cut/drill 2 holes to allow air to flow straight in the bottom, across the CPU/RAM/LAN and out the top. The raspberrypi is fairly resistant to EMF (EMC certs(CE,FCC,CTick,CRTC), is still working for me after sitting on a PSU for 3 years) so the PSU should not be an issue but you can wrap it in a faraday cage (aluminum foil) if you want. Test with a cardboard box and see what the CPU reports the temperature to be for the shape you want after an hour of intensive use. It should not be more than 10 to 20 above its surroundings, and not above 85. 

For a list of Raspberry Pi supported adapters, look at the Raspberry Pi wiki for verified USB wifi adapters. I would put the list in this answer, but it is too extensive. If you scan through them you can easily find a cheap one. 

That will force a mode even if the Pi thinks it is not supported. You should only use this if you are sure your monitor supports the requested mode. 

It looks like you have not installed the WiFi drivers for your card yet. This link here can guide you through that. I'll summarize it here though. 

Then run and click on the window you want a screenshot of. You will get a timestamp-based in the working directory of your terminal. See for more options. 

Basically, this is the whole reason Weston hasn't been set as the default yet for the Raspberry Pi. Once is supported, I presume that the shift will start to make Weston the default, while bugs are removed and features are added. This should happen later this year, or early next year. 

I would say those are the "official" 3D CAD files. You can cross reference some of the dimensions from the Raspberry Pi's FAQ: