but not useful everywhere Then, someone had the idea to bridge EACH station to a central network... all in the same box, with the network in the middle to pass data between interfaces. This also means that it's easier to track hosts to a specific port, thus limiting flooding to actual Unknown MACs or Broadcast MAC. It also limited the collision domain, as no two hosts were directly talking to each other, Full Duplex also became possible. 

Typically, you enter the WAP Radio MAC (not the LAN/Wired MAC) in the client's configuration (if available, the option depends on the drivers) 

Note that once Downloaded (to the WLC or the AP) the current image becomes the BACKUP, so it could be a good idea to swap the image until you're ready in case of accidental reboots. 

It's normally a good idea do name your device. Depending on the particular device, there are variation on the method. Ex: 

With only a single prefix (0.0.0.0/0) received on your end, you cannot distinguish between their uplink. Maybe what you requested (dual homing) implies for them to have redundancy (POP/Link/Upstream router) and that with a default route you pay for something you don't use??? As one of their router could have a better AS-Path to some prefix, you could have seen one link with better routes than the other. If your provider has two different path to their routers in your site (ie: they're connected to different network location in their own network) and that you only want a default route, you will not see any difference between one link or another as you would if receiving their whole prefix table. Full Route is useful if you plan to fiddle with attributes to do some decision yourself (LocalPref for outgoing traffic, AS-Path Prepend to attract incomming traffic and other fun BGP stuff) 

A few implementation of IP stacks didn't check correctly and crashed. It was called a Christmas Tree Packet 

The use of the NOT (!=) operator in Wireshark comes with a caveat, as mentioned in the documentation 

[Sorry, worke intruded] IP Device Tracking/NMSP affect PLCs in automated production network. We had an issue too when adding a new 3850 to a network and the PLCs started reporting Duplicate IPs with the 3850 MAC, when that switch didn't even have an IP on that subnet. Add to this that the Dupes weren't reported immediately, but had a 5-35 minutes delay after booting. I lost two days troubleshooting this, after opening a TAC, the Cisco engineer found the problem in less than 15 minutes. New Feature... new Active by Default Feature... which isn't easily linked to the symptoms when you first encounter it 

Aruba has a nice solution for small offices/networks, with their Instant AP, where a Stand-Alone AP can be used as a (limited) Controller for 15 other APs 

The device will now refer to itself by "name-of-device" instead of a generic name (ie: router, switch, etc) in prompts, syslogs, CDP/LLDP, etc... This is nothing much more than if you entered a computer name in your PC's windows setup. A side effect of that is that it's wayyy more fun to refer to your router/switch name than it's IP and/or function Instead of saying that the Core Switch has blown, you can say "insert-device-name-here died". another game often played is to name all your devices following a family/category of name. I've seen servers named after fighter planes (hornet, falcon, etc) named after LoTR character names, etc. It's more satisfying to say that "MinasTirith (your firewall's name) is secure" than "FW-ASA-1000-BSMT-1 is secure". 

There is no conversion, what you have is Encapsulation Ex: you use wireshark on your local PC to capture your HTTP session. Basically, what you end up with looks like: [Ethernet Frame [IP Packet [TCP Segment [HTTP Request]]]] 

I guess you never had to worry about rogue DHCP which is much easier to get on your network than rogue RAs. Router Advertaisement are part of the Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) not just a replacement for DHCP. There are also methods to use RAs to migrate netwok (v6 to v6... from one prefix to another) without ever having to touch or even reboot the hosts. 

Here's a sample config pulled from my own home setup. It's the DHCP, VLAN & Interface part of the config, you can use it as a starting point 

It is mostly possible, by using solutions which speed-up association/authentication. Those are often controller-based, where the central controller is what you're authenticated against, not the individual APs. It manages the APs and global authentication, so it knows you're already authenticated and that you're roaming, letting you associate with its APs much more quickly than if you were using stand-alone APs Many vendors have such setup, but I'm only familiar with Cisco's and Aruba's 

For Outgoing connections: Have your L3 switch do routing load balancing (not exclusive to BGP) by having two routes to the internet announced by your two ISP routers: 

Neither Native VLAN or VTP domain mismatch will cause this, as it normally impedes VTP propagation which you obviously do not have a problem with (your 3750 received and applied the VTP information from the 2960) Check for VTP database version. If the 2960 had a higher version than the 3750, then it will be the one used. This is the most likely thing to have happened... fiddling with your 3750 VTP config you might have reset it to Version 0, and not having touched the 2960 it has retained whichever version it had, resulting in the 3750 accepting the "more current" version of VTP config sent by the 2960. Also be aware that "VTP Client" doesn't mean that it won't send VTP config, only that you cannot configure it directly. It can still send out VTP config that will replace your network if it's a higher version. VTP Transparent will not send out VTP config (will let pass through VTP info received though, just won't send its own info). If you want to clear all vlans, now that they're synched, just delete them on the 3750 and the change should be propagated between both. 

You have to pre-download to your WLC, then pre-download to your APs Then, when you're ready, you tell the APs & WLC to reboot using the newest OS. I've used the following link to help me understand Cisco's documentation last time I upgraded the WLC & APs on our network. Basically: As per the WLC configuration guide: 

There are many other options, everything is in the documentation for your platform & IOS version Note that some platform (those running IOS-XE, at least some 6509 and maybe others) have Integrated sniffers (actually a version of Wireshark). Actual capability varies from version to version, but I was able to capture traffic on an 8mb circular buffer and import it without problems into a full fledged Wireshark) 

It's the PSTN part that cost money. You have to interconnect with the regular phone network and depending on the provider the costs vary (fixed cost per month or per call, etc...). Using IP to IP calls you do not connect to the PSTN network, hence no need to pay for that part of the infrastructure 

What do you mean by "debug an interface"? Wireshark & Co. will not help you troubleshoot an Interface problem, but will help you troubleshoot connection/traffic/protocol/payload problem. If you want to troubleshoot that, the best way is to have a PC not involved in the traffic you want to troubleshoot connected to the same Cisco switch and span the port you want to capture toward that PC/laptop (Note that very highly utilized link might get you packet drops on laptop/pc with low-end cards if Gig-Ethernet is used) ex: (taken from 3750 running 12.2.x) 

It might be that for your specific filter at hand, the current capture are displaying the same results, but it might give you a different result with a different capture "http.host" means any packet which have HTTP hosts "http.host != "" " means any packet which http.hosts isn't empty. How will the second one react if you do not have http.host at all (ie: non-http traffic?) you might want to check that