I have realised the root of problem. Plesk does not support the editing of the PHP.ini, the way to edit the PHP settings is by manually entering the settings in the domain control panel. This is hugely irritating as I have over 50 domains and they all need to same PHP settings. Hopefully I will just be able to apply a skeleton setting to all the domains 

I am receiving a 500 Internal Server Error when trying to upload large files on my server. All of my PHP settings are correct, i.e. post_max_size, execution_time etc... I am pretty certain it is a restriction with FastCGI as that is what most websites are telling me. However, all of these websites are referring to servers running Apache, and therefore the fix is simple (just edit the conf file). As I am running IIS, the problem is a little more complicated! Does anybody have any idea how I can edit the 'MaxRequestLen' value for FastCGI in IIS? I cannot seem to find a way to do it, not helped by the fact that I am not very familiar with IIS. If this is not the issue, then please suggest other causes of the problem uploading large files with IIS and FastCGI 

So everything appears to be in check there as well. However in testing deleting both users and containers I am unable to find them in order to recover those objects. The only thing that ever shows up is the deleted container itself 

On a SQL 2008R2 box we recently had a number of jobs fails for various reasons that were mostly memory related, including one stating the page file was full. The Windows 2008R2 VM had 16GB of RAM and a dedicated disk for a 6GB page file. For now we moved the page file back to the C: drive and increased its size to 8GB. The long term effects of that are yet to be seen. Our Server Admin, this morning, increased that "swap" drive to 25GB as was recommended by the GUI. What struck me as odd is that the admin also changed virtual memory to be mananged automatically across all drives. This strikes me as waste of space but I don't really understand how Windows automatically manages the page file. Here is a snapshot of the current virtual memory settings to help with the description. 

I am seeing a failcnt on my tcpsndbuf by looking at the user beancounters. How am I able to see what is causing this failcnt? I am experiencing problems with my server and I think that it is as a result of this so I really need to find out what is going wrong. 

Whilst this is a matter of opinion, is Gmail a reliable email provider? Do I have the ability to set up alias accounts and account forwarding? Very important! Is there a memory limit on the Gmail servers? Whilst I obviously set limits for my clients, I do not want them to be constantly having to empty there folders... Lastly, can I set up these accounts in Outlook? Also very important! 

Brief Explanation I am currently hosting mine and all of my clients emails on my Linux server. However, in the past, despite having passwords that no human could possibly remember, let alone guess/hack, one of my email accounts has been hacked somehow. Not to mention the additional resource consumption that hosting email can cause and the required maintenance when issues occur. I have therefore been looking at other alternatives, number one being Microsoft Exchange, hosted by a third party (quite expensive)... But after revisiting this, I noticed that it might be possible to host these accounts on Google's server instead. My Research I have searched around the web and found a very helpful article here: $URL$ This article seems to run you through how to point your email to the Gmail servers from your own server. My Question(s) Despite finding this article, I still have a few unanswered questions: 

Yes, meta-data access does count as "Data retrieval" for the purpose of Nearline and Coldline storage. The documentation you linked to is indeed unclear on that matter and should be updated with that information soon. 

By default only the user who mounted the file system has access to it. As per the documentation you can use "-o allow_other" to allow other users to access the file system. gcsfuse also allows you to directly set owners for the inodes using the --uid and --gid flags. 

It sounds like you're not passing the token you received from a completed OAuth login to your other projects and services so that they can attempt to validate it before resorting to a new login process. You should be storing it someplace all of your projects can access such as Datastore or Memcache. 

An instance is the basic building block of your App Engine application and refers to a machine running a version of your code on one of the services that make up your App Engine application. One of the features of App Engine is the ability to scale your application up or down to meet the demand. This is done by creating and shutting down instances according to the scaling configuration you selected when deploying your application. Since you say you've been running against the 12 connections per instance limit I assume this means App Engine determined your instance should be able to handle more than 12 requests at once. To avoid this scenario you should set max_concurrent_requests to 12 or lower in your app.yaml and make sure to cleanly terminate all connections once you're done with them. That way no single instance should try to use more than 12 database connections concurrently. Note that this restriction is stated to only apply to the App Engine standard environment, meaning that an instance running on the Flexible environment would not be subject to this per-instance connection limit and could properly handle connections until another instance's creation is deemed necessary by App Engine. 

From what I can tell from looking at other tutorials about setting this up that should be showing up. For me though, there should be other objects there that have been deleted over the past couple of weeks. I am running my tests as a Enterprise Admin user. Searching for "recycling bin" and "active directory" leads me to other users that have similar issues but most of them are addressed by either actually enabling the feature or being at a lower forest level. In my case both are correct. Not sure what I am doing wrong here or assuming. A fact that is quite possibly related is that I cannot see this "Deleted Objects" container from ldp.exe either as per this guide I was using for comparison. The last step to see the container being: 

I need the Owner as that is how I associate devices to people in our organization. Using PowerShell I am able to successfully log into the website and get a 200 response for a basic page. My problem comes when I try to use the same session to get to the data I want I keep getting a page with just breadcrumbs and no actual data. 

Changing your instance type and threading configuration will only help in a situation where the instance cannot handle your application's resource needs. You're not very clear on which requests are slow, and by how much. Using the developer mode of your browser (F12 in chrome) you can obtain traces that show you how long each request takes to complete so you can identify the ones that are excessively slow. On the GCP side you can use Cloud Trace to time the execution time of requests by your application and help you figure out where the issue lies. This should give you a better idea of where to look for improvements. 

I believe there is no actual need for you to be touching Nginx. The link you are basing yourself on has to do with the HTTP Load Balancer, not with App Engine Flexible. An example of working Django application on App Engine flexible may be found here.