This seems to be a recognized bug with CUPS 1.6.x itself. There is a discussion and workaround for Ubuntu here Hopefully this will be applicable to your situation or at least advance improve your chances of finding a solution. 

If your FTP station has a static IP address or is on the same local network, you could simply set your firewall rules on the rip station to only allow outgoing and incoming port 21 (assuming you are using a non encrypted FTP connection) to the IP address of the FTP server. This will probably be insufficient if you are trying to connect through the internet to a computer with a dynamic IP address, as used by most broadband connections. If it is on the local network it may help to assign the FTP station an IP address manually rather than by DHCP, to eliminate the chance of it changing when more computers are added to the network. 

Your error message suggests a problem, the file you are trying to open is an mp4, not an avi file. If your bink converter cannot open mp4 files, you can either convert your file to .avi with a different tool and then convert it, or you can find a different bink conversion tool. I am not able to provide a recommendation other than to google "bink mp4 conversion". 

There is the . It is not an equivalent of linux , but it allow to represent remote file system to windows file system. For now install&run proccess looks like the following. 

I need to compare files (i.e. files) with files in it. My WinMerge v. 2.14.0.0 Unicode refuses to work with my 7-zip v. 16.04 [64 bit]. The official guide did not help. Is there any exact instructions to compare archives with WinMerge? 

gPodder stores podcast-feeds info in a file named Database. This is a SQLite database file and can be edited with any appropriate software (I use SQLite Browser). This database file includes field named download folder. After editing this field for buggy podcast feeds the problem is disappeared. UPDATE: File Database is located in a folder with podcasts or in (Ubuntu: ). Make a backup before editing. 

I'd like to change directory gPodder downloads podcasts to. Default output directory in Ubuntu is . I cannot find output directory in config. How I can change output directory for gPodder? 

I have a convertible laptop/tablet with graphics tablet screen, which often logs out of the current X session whilst using GIMP 2.6. I am dropped back to the login prompt without a system wide restart. All unsaved work is lost, making this a real problem for me. This only seems to happen whilst reaching over the keyboard to draw on the screen. I have disabled the CTRLAltBackspace shortcut so I don't believe leaning on the keyboard is causing the problem. There is no output to dmesg or xsession-errors when the restart occurs. Any advice on how to track down or deal with this problem would be appreciated. OS: Linux mint 13, 64 bit (up to date) Hardware: unmodified HP Compaq 2710p, (laptop/wacom graphics tablet), no external devices connected. I have sought an answer at the XFCE forums but with no response after two weeks. 

I believe you could upgrade to an SSD drive with minimal difficulty. There is a small possibility that the drive would be blacklisted by the BIOS, which you may wish to research, but I beleive this is unlikely. The service manual indicates several SSD drives for this laptop though I believe that most 2.5 inch drives with a 7mm height should be fine. The manual also indicates that there are i7 variants of this laptop. The listed compatible parts are: 

found this guide over at pctools.com, and I'm curious if there is still other way for others to access folder options if I have already disabled it. And if you know if there is other way to access hidden files if the folder options is disabled please do tell. $URL$ 

Here's the scenario: I download a .torrent file in firefox. Now I want that utorrent will be able to detect the folder where I save the .torrent file. And it will download it automatically without me setting it up. 

Can you recommend of other os imaging software that you use if you haven't use macrium reflect yet. And how do I restore the os from that image? And which is faster? reinstalling the os then install the applications that you need. Or making use of the imaging software to backup the installation along with the applications?Which takes more time? 

I have both windows 7 and xp installed. If there was only xp, I would go ahead and boot up the xp installation disc and re install the hal.dll file from the recovery console. Problem is I have also windows 7 installed, and I'm thinking that I will also be unable to boot windows 7 once xp is fixed. Please help. 

Ubuntu: Add a line to the file . Relogin Ubuntu to make changes take effect. Windows: Set an environment variable to desired output folder. source 

I try to use GPodder to download podcasts. For some feeds I cannot downloads any podcasts with error messages like: 

It is a very convinient way to instant navigation. However, I have a set of more than 10 required applcations. There are some composite ways to navigate applications with higher order I do not like for it sluggishness. Is there some plugin application to Windows or something for instant navigate to the pinned applications with order greater than 10 (I guess the 20 applications going to be enough) 

There is a way to completely turn off autocorrect in libreoffice calc. However, I would prefer turn off autocorrect in less scale: document, worksheet, column/row, cell. How it can be obtained? 

What is the reason of the mismatch and how to list all files with corresponding sizes in the given constraints? 

I guess gPodder has some problems with language encodings. It cannot create valid folder name for some feeds, so files cannot be written to this folder. How to fix this problem? (Cause I don't want to return to Juice podcast aggregator)