Also check your resolver file as well and delete the ssl directory in both areas then restart the sync process. Obviously you know the puppetca --list command to check to see if a certificate needs to be signed. You may also try to turn off your firewall and see if that allows the connection. Check out the /etc/hosts to make sure its all there. 

This event ID shows who cleared the security log so its a bit curious as to why you would want to clear it. You should know the purpose of event logs is to show you things that you may or may not need to look into further. Microsoft goes out of their way to stop you from deleting pieces. This helps prevent people from mucking with your system and you having no knowledge at all. Which when people ask such a question, bad thoughts will be the first thing that comes to mind to anyone intelligent working in IT 

APC is by far the best option out of the three. eAccelerator is beginning to lose its foundation and seems to have issues with the latest version of PHP. APC can be found here. There are a lot of other links out there but this is a reputable one (assuming that's the latest version). The main settings to define in your file will be: 

The best way I learned Linux was being thrown into it. I was given a project on a non-production system which required learning many different steps both basic and advanced system administration work. From there I was able to use the wonderful world of Google to learn much of my tasking as well as reading "A Practical Guide to Fedora and Red Hat Enterprise Linux" This was one of the most helpful books I came across. Personally at this point it became what I was going to make of the learning experience. I may have spent more time than was needed to complete the project but the general point was the learning experience. This of course is my own opinioin, remember that people learn differently than others. Some can read a book and simply "get it" while others need to get their hands dirty to really learn. I highly recommend asking the individual how they best learn so you may set them up for success. You could also set him up with VMPlayer and load up a few different flavors of Linux which you may use in your area. 

How does this work with logging? Does each node write to the same place? What about configuring static ip addresses? If machine A writes to the disk, does machine B pick it up? When he says "web node" does he mean just the web server? I'm assuming this means the web application as well (PHP/Perl), correct? Is this even a good idea (with mostly using RAM)? Can this same thing be done with iSCISI? 

I have 3 ESXi hosts, each with 4 uplinks dedicated to a port group. I want to utilize each of these uplinks for incoming/outgoing traffic (load balancing). From what I understand I need to setup link aggregation and on my Force10 switches (stacked) and set IP Hash based load balancing. VMware KB article 1021492 shows how to do this with Force10. What isn't clear to me is, how many port channels do I need to setup? One per ESXi host, or one for the entire port group? Does it matter? 

We're in the planning/development stage for our new platform and with everything separated out we'll need to setup between 9 to 16 servers, a load balancer, 2 or 3 hardware firewalls, and a VPN. During development we need to simulate all of this as cheaply as possible. Ideally I'd like to be able to setup a single machine with a lot of RAM and virtualize all of this to figure out what works and what doesn't. What are my better options as far as virtualization? VMWare? Other? How can I virtualize all the appliances as well? The appliances our data center offers: Cisco ASA 5510 (firewall), Foundry FCSLB8 Serveriron XL (load balancer) (We'll be running CentOS 6 64bit on our servers) Looking for something super easy. Something that will help me learn the real environment for later on. 

Did you create records on your domain for your DKIM public key? If not, there's no way for Gmail to validate it. Do you have any records setup to validate that your server can send emails from the domain? Is it configured correctly? There are also tools on the internet that will help you troubleshoot issues. A search like "DKIM validator" should give you some tools to verify the DKIM record is visible. Also, what do the headers say? Sometimes email servers add headers to indicate the reason why a message was sent to spam. 

If you are running Hyper-V and wish to look at the performance on its current machine then I recommend the following article on How to Monitor Hyper-V Performance. Has come in handy in the past. I am not aware of any tools that can look at the performance of the Hyper-V layer which are inexpensive. 

ewwhite, You may have already come across this article but I had it bookmarked awhile back: $URL$ Hopefully this helps 

You really have to weigh your options here. There are a lot of variables in play. If you are not comfortable handling any type of issue that may rise then I would recommend using the managed option. The phrase time is money comes to mind. If you feel you have the knowledge to do things properly and you feel like you can make the investment (in time) for the maintenance of the server then go for it. But again, if you do not have ample experience using Linux then you should pick the managed solution. That money you save picking the unmanaged option could certainly cost you more money in the time it takes you to troubleshoot any issues you may have as well as keeping it updated and running smoothly. 

There are two options for this to work you will need to bind both apache and nginx to their own IP address. So for instance in the httpd.conf file you will need to list a specific IP such as The article listed below explains how to bind both nginx and apache as well as explains using nginx behind apache by setting up virtual hosts For more information check this site out 

Did you do an when you "backed up" the WsusContent folder? This will then have created a cab file that you could have imported into your new server (which would create the database when you reinstall) If you did not do an export of your data I don't believe you will have a cab file to import that data back. The command will check the update metadata in your database to the corresponding update files that are stored in WsusContent to check if they are missing or corrupt. If so, it will download them again. 

Unfortunately won't work with status codes other than 200, 204, 301, 302 or 304. You can find this in the documentation here. You may be able to use this plugin to do what you want: $URL$ 

Is the server with PHP Linux or Windows based? For now I'll assume it's Linux based. Some of the advice below is valid regardless, you just have to take a slightly different approach. First thing to do is determine if the emails are even reaching your Exchange server. When you ping the domain, are you getting the IP address you expect? The outgoing email should have a "Return-Path" header. If the email is being rejected by Exchange, you should get a response to the address in "Return-Path" stating why the email was rejected. Typically with sendmail bounce backs end up in /var/mail. With PHP's mail function, there are a couple things to keep in mind. Are you setting a "From:" header? Is the address reachable? If you are setting headers (should at least set From:) make sure you don't have any trailing lines after your headers. Some mail server's don't like this. Last thing to check is the outgoing ip address in the email headers. Sometimes sendmail puts 127.0.0.1 instead of the public ip address. This has caused issues for me in the past. Since sendmail was difficult to configure, I just ended up using postfix. Another thing to consider is instead of sending mail from the local server on the PHP box, you could try configuring PHP to use your Exchange server to send emails. 

When you see "!Z" or "!X" in a traceroute, what does that mean? Where is it coming from, and how do I fix it? 

I finally figured this out after working with physical switches, some trial and error, and further reading. This can be a very confusing because a "trunk" can mean different things with different vendors. It basically means a port that is "tagged" with 2 or more VLAN IDs, or with some vendors all VLAN IDs. With a vSwitch a "trunk" port is "All (4096)" which means all VLAN IDs. With VLANs there are "tagged" and "untagged" VLANs. A tagged VLAN adds extra information to the ethernet frame to indicate which VLAN a message belongs to. An untagged VLAN doesn't add this information, and strips VLAN tag information matching its VLAN ID. A "tagged" VLAN is useful for expanding a VLAN across more than one switch (physical or virtual). On a physical switch a switch port can only be attached to one untagged VLAN, but can be "tagged" with multiple "tagged" VLANs. A switch port is always associated with at least one untagged VLAN, with some vendors VLAN 1. The tagged VLANs take precedence. Devices plugged into a switch port with a tagged VLAN must understand what a tagged VLAN is and attach the correct VLAN id. If the recipient is plugged into an untagged VLAN of the same ID, this information is stripped before it receives it, so it doesn't have to understand what a VLAN is. With a nested ESXi environment, the master ESXi host acts as your physical switch. If you tag a port group on a nested ESXi host with, for example VLAN 100, the master ESXi host won't know what to do with the VLAN tag information. Because of this the master ESXi host needs to be on VLAN 100 OR (for other VLAN's to work) "All (4096)". In a real environment you may not want to trunk all VLAN IDs on an uplink. If you have a vSwitch that has port groups with multiple VLAN IDs, you have to at least tag these uplink ports with those VLAN IDs in order for a VM to communicate with another VM on another physical host. Otherwise only VM's on the same physical host will be able to communicate. The vSwitch really hides a lot of stuff you'd see on a physical switch. 

Setting up a testing environment on a RHEL5 server to test out OTRS ticketing system. I installed XAMPP for the ease of use factor for testing but can't seem to get the ticketing system to start with XAMPP at all. I am new to OTRS and learning on the fly. The documentation says to go to localhost/otrs/installer.pl. First, this file does not exist anywhere in the directory except in /opt/otrs/cgi-bin & fcgi-bin. And when I attempted to start OTRS in general I get " --> Please start the web server first! (service httpd start) <--" So do I need to edit the startup script to force it to use XAMPP? Or am I better off just installing HTTPD & MySQL myself? 

Control Panel -> Add Remove Program -> Windows Small Business Server 2003. Set Server Tools to Maintenance. Set Monitoring to Uninstall and continue the setup process. Control Panel -> Add Remove Program -> Microsoft SQL Server Desktop Engine (SBSMonitoring) -> Remove. Rename the C:\program files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL$SBSMONITORING Folder. Reboot the server. Control Panel -> Add Remove Program -> Windows Small Business Server 2003. Set Server Tools to Maintenance. Set Monitoring to Install and continue the setup process. Reboot the server. Start MSSQL$SBSMONITORING and SQLAgent$SBSMONITORING services. In Server Management Console -> Monitoring and Reporting: run the "Set Up Monitoring Reports and Alerts wizard". 

Dis[lays the drives assigned to the storage controller and the current KeyID used on the Storage System. Write down the encryption KeyID to be used for the next command. 

Background We setup very large systems which consist of many different types of servers, switches, and routers. These systems are then shipped out to different locations and are turned on ready to go upon arrival. We script many different areas of the install to increase our efficiency but recently have decided to try an automate at least 90% of the process. Currently, after the system arrives at its destination, users would follow a set of procedures that we have written to customize the applications or do any "restores" that would be required. These can be a long process - sometimes 500 steps. Often times the system is wiped and the process begins again which requires the on-staff IT to move through the procedures to set everything up again. Question The process is a grueling one especially when the procedures must be checked and re-checked. The options we have considered: Scripting The scripts will not be specific to any one system which will allow us to make the proper changes depending on the location of the system. Depending on the development of the scripts it may be difficult to make changes, time to develop scripts is substantial, if we move on (job wise) others may have a difficult time picking up the scripts, and execution time for the script. Templates Create a template from a working base copy with all the installed components ready to go. For instance, if we a Jabber server all the proper settings would already be setup on the template and a script would be kicked off to create the proper tables and database settings on the DB server. Once the template is up it will be connected to the SQL server and ready to go. Some of the foreseeable disadvantages here are the potential size of the templates, space required on storage, and transporting the image. Scripts would remain to do anything specific to that location if necessary. In the vast experience of those on ServerFault, does anyone have any kind of experience with this? What is the most practical and efficient way? 

About six months ago we transitioned from an in-house Exchange 2003 server to a hosted Exchange 2010 service. For the most part this has worked well, but the providers OWA constantly times out. About 6/10 requests time out or more, and it's gotten to the point where OWA is just unusable. To give you an example: I'll login, read an email, choose reply and the window for replying gives me a request has timed out message. After a few attempts I'll get it to work and reply. After that I'll read another email and it'll timeout. I contacted the provider about this and they said it's a known issue with Exchange 2010, for all providers, they're working with Microsoft to correct the issue, and there is no ETA. To be clear this isn't a session issue. I don't have to login, it just says the request timed out and to try again. After a few attempts it does work. It's just extremely annoying. I've spent a litte time researching the problem and I can't find anything that would suggest it's a common issue. Exchange 2010 has been around for a while, so I would suspect that if it was a huge problem it would have been corrected by now. So is my provider full of crap, or is there really an issue that has yet to be corrected? If the issue does exist, is there any docs on it? 

We have a debate in our office going on whether it's necessary to get a hardware firewall or set up a virtual one on our VMWare cluster. Our environment consists of 3 server nodes (16 cores w/ 64 GB RAM each) over 2x 1 GB switches w/ an iSCSI shared storage array. Assuming that we would be dedicating resources to the VMWare appliances, would we have any benefit of choosing a hardware firewall over a virtual one? If we choose to use a hardware firewall, how would a dedicated server firewall w/ something like ClearOS compare to a Cisco firewall?