The biggest problem I'm seeing with your idea it that a eSATA port can only support a single drive. The hardware of the laptop would be more than sufficient, the limitations come in for storage as most laptops can only have 1-2 internal drives and limited externals. If 1-2 disks can provide enough storage space / redundancy this solution would work fine. 

Your power supply should be fine, but while stress testing running a monitoring program to keep an eye on your voltages would be a good idea. Furmark is an excellent GPU stress testing tool and prime 95 is great for CPUs. 

In 99.999....% of cases no, however, in some rare cases ( mainly OEM systems ) one stick my not be compatible and cause issues. 

It should, Have you followed all the steps listed here? $URL$ You must not only add the drive but create a share. If you have problems with the preceding instructions please list the exact step that it fails at. Also, make sure that you have the most up to date firmware from linksys. 

To summarize all the comments we have made. Your SSD seems to be dead on arrival and needs to be RMAed/returned, however, it may just be a BIOS issue. After installing the most recent BIOS please update you question. 

No, your laptop uses an AMD processor which will not let you upgrade to a Intel one due to incompatible chipsets. 

The PCI Express x4 by far. PCI ( regular ) is very slow even compaired to a PCI Express x1 slot. PCI Express 1.0 x4 slot has a bandwidth of 1.0 Gbps while a PCI slot maxes out at 266 Mbps. Later versions of the PCI Express bus double the transfer rates of version 1 allowing up to 4 Gbps with version 3 in a x4 slot. 

USB bandwidth is shared per channel, However, each port on a machine is often not on its own channel. Often each pair of ports is its own channel, and a hub would "condense" all its ports to one channel. 

This is a very complex question with many possible answers. However, a VPN would probably work best for this case. This will allow for Y and Z to access the database server while restricting access to the rest of the world. There may be performance issues with running a VPN over a consumer DSL line as the upload speed on these lines it quite slow. You many want to have a look at openVPN as it is a leader in the opensource VPN area. $URL$ 

openoffice.org has math, or theres tablet pc tools for windows XP and vista that include stuff that might be of help 

I would look at openSUSE and try to build off that. Among the many useful things they have is Mirall for owncloud. Theres also projects like WebYast that will help you admin the server remotely, and other storage projects like mediatomb 

Driver Issues! possible a virus. Can you boot to safe mode? if not your going to have to: recover your data with knoppix or ubuntu then restore using the build in partition or recovery disk. 

use GIMP... Select the white area and erase or delete it, you can select and use the DEL key, or use the eraser if that doesn't work as needed. Then save it as a PNG. 

YOu'll have to look and edit in each power setting, balanced, high preformance and power saving and pick the settings there that work best. It has actions for the lid, what to do on close on plugged in and what to do on batter. To fully set this up how you want it, you'll need to set it at least 6 times (3 power modes, on each of them, for battery and plugged in) Media center could have done it, because it will let you keep a computer on (prevent sleep, shutdown, etc) while media is sharing, including the ability to allow a sleeping computer to be waken up to share media. My bet is media center changed 2 settings, the What do do what the lib closes, and maybe even the media sharing. Look into them both. 

no, you have to unpin it, make a shortcut on the desktop or something, change the icon then re-pin it. 

Your package manager might tell you. YAST in opensuse has a files tab, which shows all the files and location they get installed to. I can't speak for other distros. 

You could try songbird at getsongbird.org and use a playlist. If you run linux you could try Banshee, but I see your on WMP. Doesn't Zen have its own software? 

It depends a lot on the software you use to. A heavy player like WMP might not run, but a lighter option, say VLC, might. I don't think your going to get a definitive answer, theres too many variables. 

Well for linux you can tar and gz zip folders via command line, but i'm going to assume your on windows? 

I emailed Western Digital tech support and they responded to let me know that this setup will not work properly. 

I have used Archlinux and it is quite fast if set up correctly. I don't think its "a few seconds" fast though. 

I've been trying to understand how accessible private files stored in Keybase are. If I have the Keybase application installed and running on my Windows account, will other administrators be able to have access to those files due to the drive being "mounted"? 

I have a 3 monitor setup (each monitor is exactly the same). Two videocards, each with one splitter (one DVI and one VGA). I have two monitors hooked up using DVI and the third is connected through the VGA connection. I am running Windows 7. If I resize a window from one DVI monitor to the other, it's not a problem. It does so very smoothly. If I resize a window on the VGA monitor it is extremely choppy. Why? It's not choppy on other machines with only VGA connections. Has anyone else noticed this? 

With that said, I'm wondering if there might be a way to hack the firmware so I can get it to recognize NTFS without messing anything up. 

I have a laptop (Dell Inspiron 8600) that must've gotten a little zap when lightning struck a year ago. I figured it zapped the motherboard so I assumed it was done for and put it on the shelf. Recently I saw that someone else had a similar problem but it was with their power adapter. The light would still turn on (on the adapter) but no power was getting to the PC. I'm wondering if this might be the same problem I have. Without going as far as ordering a new adapter or finding someone to borrow one from, how can I safely test to see if my AC adapter is working properly? 

I recently bought a new My Book Essential 1TB (WDBACW0010HBK-NESN) to daisychain to my older My Book World Edition 500GB (blue rings) with one of the version 01.xx.xx firmwares. At first when I connected the USB drive to the MBWE, it showed up in the System Summary section of the administration page without any issue. I was able to set up a new share on the new drive. The administration website moved very, very slow though. The administration pages became nearly unresponsive during this setup process. Once the share was set up I could access the new share but again, it was very slow, now through Windows Explorer. I looked around the internet and it seems that this is caused by the USB drive being formatted with NTFS. I tried reformatting it (again, as NTFS) just to double check and the same problem occurred. I then tried FAT32 but realized it would only support files of approximately 2GB and that is not acceptable for me. I decided to try a firmware upgrade on the MBWE to version 02.00.19. The firmware upgrade completed successfully but now the MBWE does not display the USB drive in the System Summary like it did with the earlier firmware version. The USB drive works perfectly fine when connected directly to my computer. Is there a way to solve this issue? 

You should be able to open the EPS in inkscape and save as SVG from there. Make sure to save as Plain SVG not inkscape SVG for better comparability. Adobe illustrator can do the same thing, its not free, but the trial version is. 

Lifehacker.com says this is a nice alternative. $URL$ I have no personal experience with it. But it looks nice. 

for music files you can use subsonic for text and documents, I personally would use FTP like filezilla but there are other web interface based options that let you, usually only download from your home computer. if your running linux, definitely use FTP for letting other download files. And set up SSH for administration. winSCP is a good client (windows based) for ssh, sftp, ftp, and SCP onto a linux box. 

Also the best way to update all installed packages at once is to open Install software in yast and go to the Package Menu, then All packages and then update if newer version available. This will select all updated packages for installation. When you open Yast install software is usually refreshes the repos if you have them set to auto refresh. 

It will always have the private IP. In a simple case, its lets say 192.168.1.10 and your router with public IP 123.456.789.10 forwards port 80 to 192.168.1.10. With that alone, you can access by both IPs, as well as a domain name if you have that set up to the public ip. I host a server at home and this is how I have it, and it works just fine. 

I have a Foxconn R20D2 bought about a year and a half ago. It ran fine for a while and then around last summer it started having power issues. I chalked it up to changes in electric current due to the overwhelmed grid when people turn on their AC units, but this problem has stayed for all year, shutting off randomly, shutting off when i turn on a vacuum and similar problems. Now that its summer again, the box basically sits there all day cycling itself, and now has gotten to the point it tried to boot and after 3 seconds, fails, shuts off and tried again. I know its power related, it runs opensuse linux and there are never any shutdown logs or anything of that sort. As the weather got hotter i noticed it happening more and more, and it most often happened in the morning, i presume as people woke up and turn on the AC. The power supply is a Chennel well technology co LTD model DSL-150. 150W max output. Its an intel atom dual core, with 2 sata drives, no CD/floppy etc, recently upgrades from 2 to 4gb of ram. It runs at 104 degrees Fahrenheit all the time almost. Any way i can test the power supply or anything else to try to fix it? Im a software guy, not hardware so im at a complete loss here, thanks for all assistance you can provide! EDIT: The switch on the back that says 230 or 115 is set to 230. If im in the USA, could that be causing the problems? 

Have you tried setting the 'hidden' flag on that partition within GParted? I'm guessing that's all you really need to do but I've been known to be wrong before. 

If I click a link to a torrent file, Chrome always pops up the "Save As" box instead of asking if I want to save or open. How can I change this setting? 

I need to fabricate a "file in use" scenario. I am programming exception handling for this particular scenario but I am unable to come up with a way to put a file "in use" so other programs are unable to delete or modify it. Is there a simple way to do this that I'm overlooking? 

Kill the windows update process (it's the one that starts with "wu..."). I had two of them running -- one under the SYSTEM account and one under my own account. I killed the system account process. It will then say that the update failed and there are X number remaining. You can then start installing them again and it should work better this time. 

This silly design of the status bar popping up and disappearing is really bothering me. I used to have a few good extensions on my status bar in Firefox (Pagerank, AdBlock, etc) and now they all have to be placed in strange locations on the toolbars near the top without easily displaying any relevant information. Is there a way I can get the status bar back and use it similarly to FF? Edit: I realize Chrome never had a status bar but just about all other browsers do and it's really awkward not to have one. I was hoping there was a way to make it have one. 

For some folders, Thumbs.db does now show up even though I am showing hidden folders/files and always showing extensions. How do I get it to always be displayed while using Windows Explorer? Also, the file shows up when I use the command prompt but if I do it says it does not exist. But if I do it will delete it properly. 

Is there some way to get the infrared port of my laptop to be used as a remote control for the television? Obviously there is, with limited capability, but what program will do this for free? WindowsXP compatible would be preferred 

I have a laptop that does not have a cd-rom or floppy drive. It is able to boot from USB though. I have a disk image (ghost) of the disk that I need to restore back onto the laptop. I can't find a way to actually run the Ghost utility from a USB key though. I believe the ghost.exe should run from within DOS just fine but I can't seem to create a bootable USB key with DOS on it that allows me to run an EXE. Edit: I managed to find a Ghost utility that I could load from a bootable USB drive. Unfortunately, when I plug in my NTFS external drive (USB), it is not detected.