I think that covers just about every solution to this problem that I have worked with in my career. Which actual solution will work best in any given situation is highly dependent on that environment. 

This shows an example of an interface that will not be able to communicate with your 100/Full firewall. In addition, your interfaces may also not support Auto-MDIX. In this case, you may or not need a crossover cable to connect the devices depending on the hardware. Having the wrong cable will prevent the interfaces from establishing a connection. 

Yes. Optics can and will burn out. Just like your eyes, if the receiver is exposed to a light source that is too bright for too long, it will cause damage. The brighter the source, the shorter the exposure necessary. You should take some action to attenuate the signal. 

Absolutely, providing that you design correctly. Keep in mind that it may increase CPU (especially under abnormal circumstances) and that it adds traffic on the path to your collector. If you CPU is rather idle and you don't have to worry about saturating your links, then there should be no issue. 

Generally when I have seen this, it comes from a poorly configured VM (often hosted on a user machine). Depending on the situation and environment, they can be difficult to track down (saw a lot of these at a University in the CS and ECE department buildings which moved and came/went as students did). You have a couple great answers already, but another option you can pursue is to add the following config to the downstream switches (37xx, 36xx, 29xx): 

The BSSID of the wireless network may be the TA or RA, but it can also may be an identifier to associate traffic to a BSS. Unless the access point (AP) uses the same MAC address for the management interface and the BSSID, you generally won't have any traffic where the BSSID is either the SA or DA. The use the address fields in an 802.11 header is tied to the To/From DS (distribution system) flags. Depending on how the To/From DS flags are set, this determines which of the four fields are required and what information each provides. Here are a couple quick summary tables that I took from an IEEE document: 

Newer/faster standards utilize much higher frequencies in the cable where certain negative characteristics of the cable will have more of an effect, such as NEXT (near end cross talk). Newer cable grades are primarily designed to address these issues. Other characteristics of the cable standards do not change significantly with higher grade cable and have more of an impact on Examples of such characteristics: 

In your own documentation and design work, you can use any kind of notation you like, however keep in mind that if you use anything besides the first three, it will likely not be understood by anyone else. The first two are common, the third you normally only see in training/education and I only saw the last once long ago when working with a developer that preferred to work in hex. As for support in device configurations, you will generally only see support for one (or possibly both) of the first two. With IPv6, nearly everything will use CIDR notation, although I have seen (one time, although it makes little sense) someone use hex notation for the mask as well. 

Came across a situation where powering off a module in a Cisco 4500 (Sup7-E) would have been nice, but couldn't seem to find the command. Ended up having to unseat the module until we had the fix in place and then someone had to go insert it again Unfortunately, it was off site, so it required someone to go to the location to do this and it would have been nice to be able to do remotely. I know with a 6500 you can do a (IOS) or (CatOS) to power off the module, but just couldn't find it on the 4500. Anyone have any suggestions or ideas? Hidden command maybe? Or can anyone confirm the platform doesn't have the capability (and why)? It seems somewhat odd to me that the capability to do a reset () of a module exists, but no capability to power it off entirely. 

No, MAC addresses do not exist at layer 3, therefore they cannot carry any consideration at layer 3. If you were discussing networking in general or were including layer 2, then you might have some basis behind your statement. But the original statement specifically identifies this as layer 3. Further, MAC addresses are not required at all if the layer 2 protocol doesn't need them. So while layer 2 MAC addresses exist in the vast majority of cases, you could have an IP address without a MAC address. The use of technologies like NAT can muddy the issue a bit, but the general principle still holds true. 

In my experience, this is far more likely in the corporate world. For example, I have seen individual WAN sites operated as OSPF stub areas or different OSPF areas within separate corporate campuses. 

Don't mess with standard cabling. In the longer term you (or whoever replaces you) will regret the decision. While your solution may seem simple enough now, but where do you do it and who will undo it when you no longer need it? What complexities may this add to operating or troubleshooting problems in the coming years? 

MTR uses ICMP, which is often rate limited on the internet due to how it can be misused to created problems (high CPU, wasted bandwidth, DoS, etc). When you see output like this, generally this is a sign that rate limiting for ICMP is in place. With a quick web search I found this documentation regarding using MTR. While it is not official it looks decent (at least with a quick scan) and provides examples of some problems you may find using MTR. 

Rather than messing with cabling or buying a Cisco switch, why don't you simply pick up some Cisco AIR-PWRINJ3 power injectors? These will provide you Cisco pre-standard PoE and are inexpensive on the used markets. Especially since you are already considering the use of power injectors. 

Speaking as broadly as the question (and assuming an unlimited budget), I would "prefer" to have it in all three (and as many more as I could get) with some sort of SIEM solution tying all the data together into a more comprehensive picture. However, depending on what you are trying to protect, any of the three will work. Without more information, I couldn't give a better answer than has already been provided. 

CRC errors tend to indicate a problem with the signal as it crosses the medium between devices. Where 1G was often much more resilient to minor issues, 10G can be very particular about the medium. For copper connections, this could indicate some sort of interference bleeding into the wire if you are not using shielded cable, or a problem with ground in shielded cables. For fiber, I have come across errors a number of times, and the most common cause in my experience is that no one had or used a proper fiber kit to clean the fiber (transceivers, cables, and infrastructure) when making connections. This is true even with brand new cables (and sometimes more so). A fiber scope can be very useful for this process, as it will allow you to verify that the surfaces are clean and free of any defect (scratches, etc) prior to making the connection. As has been indicated in other answers and comments, check that your Rx signal is well within acceptable margins (not too strong or too weak) if your hardware supports it. If nothing else suggested fixes it, then look at swapping out the transceivers and cables if possible (remember to clean again if you do so). 

All this RF stuff sometimes makes my head spin, but I believe you are mixing up some concepts in your question. The separation of channels has absolutely nothing at all to do with ISI. ISI is an effect that occurs on the same frequency. ISI typically results from multipath when more than one copy of a symbol arrives at the receiver at slightly different times and those copies start to overlap with the next transmitted symbol. This has a "blurring" effect, confusing the receiver and making it hard to understand the symbol. The guard interval is what helps prevent ISI, by allowing the RF medium to "quiet down" before the next symbol is sent. A longer guard interval helps give the RF medium more time to become quiet, but reduces performance by reducing the amount of time that data is actually transmitted. A shorter guard interval increase performance but risks more chance of ISI. A VERY loose analogy, think of someone talking into a microphone and that sound coming out of two speakers. If you introduce a delay in the transmission of sound from one speaker so that words start to overlap, this can make it difficult for people to understand what is being said. If that person were to give a full speech non-stop so the words are continually overlapping, it can be very hard to understand. However if they were to pause for a full second between each word, it would be easier to understand, but it would take longer to get through the speech.