Basically, we don't want the Outlook wizard to appear the first time it's opened. We want a blank profile created (no e-mail support) so users can open msg files. I've not found a way to automate this process. Could anyone provide some guidance? 

I've not been able to find anyway to do this via registry or GPO. I want to remove standard users ability to right-click computer and open the "Add a Network Location" button, or just disable the wizard from coming up. Is there any possible way to do this? I can't seem to find anyone successful with this. 

Connect cable or create virtual NIC connected to subnet B on all hosts Begin moving instances to subnet B Move cluster IP to subnet B Delete subnet A from any listed cluster networks 

If i check perf counter for mssql there is no perf counter for vcpu/core . To check perf counter available on your mssql server do that: select * from sys.dm_os_performance_counters But if you do the perfcounter from windows view there is counter for every vcpu/core. 

Software assurance give you the right to upgrade during software assurance life . You don't have to transfer license but request new one. Its in your microsoft vlsc account. $URL$ be carefull with virtual licensing . microsoft say : 2012 r2 is 2 vitual + 1 physical references : $URL$ 

You can do that with url rewrite and binding on you iis site . check for iis rewrite modules rules here : $URL$ 

Termina server (rdp server now) work like that : -user connected on server view printer localy installed on the server or connected by script/group policy. -if remote printer is enabled on tse and client tse , user on the server can view localy installed printer on the server if the driver is installed on the server (for 2003 server). And only the user connecting their printer . To resolve your share problem with connected printer via remote session its better to use printer as local one (with ip with or without vpn) because rdp 2003 is not very good at handling printer job. And this prevent share right delete. And there is near 0 compression on print job with old rdp protocole. 2008 and later are better at handling printer job inside rdp session. 

I have never done it, but I have seen people setup a "gateway" windows box that has the checkpoint client installed, and then have that windows "Gateway" setup to do port forwarding of all their specifically desired ports (22, 21, 3389) to that remote network. Looks like this site has a nice tutorial on it 

Ok, So I have been doing more research and I think that the Microsoft tool SQLIO is going to be what will give the most info for my needs. I am going to start this tonight and let everyone know how it goes as far as usefulness. I found a fairly good tutorial online tha tI am going to follow. If anyone else has any ideas, please let me know! 

I am trying to create a template in ESX that I can automate with PowerCLI. Everything works great so far, but because I have some specific settings, I had to create my own sysprep.inf. Now, the computername and the VM guest name are out of synch. I need to automate this for a sandbox enviornment, so I will constantly be deleting and rebuilding boxes. Thus, I need the VMhost name and the computername to be the same. Am I missing something? 

Want to publish Firefox or Chrome in a XenApp/RDS environment. However, I can't find any central way to disable file browsing (ie. type c:\ in address bar). In fact, I can't find any great way in general to do this at all with these browsers. This leaves me with having to use IE, which I'd really rather not do as the apps they're accessing really recommend using Firefox or Chrome. Does anyone know how this is possible? 

I have a four node cluster setup which I need to migrate from subnet A to subnet B. The cluster has roughly 12 instances running on it. I've found articles to update the SQL Cluster IP, but I've got more problems or need more information regarding the logistics of the migration. My initial plan was to do this: 

Don't understand exactly what you need to know (and where is the question)but if i understand a few: use dhcp relay. How to do that : $URL$ 

In the website world some people use ww2 to load balance and/or do A/B testing with "real user load" on a second cluster . Sometime its just a trick used to load with real user and do some benchmark on new stuff :) 

Don't know a all in one solution but look for this : 1- use a software to read iis log and with some "code" email a result when someting match your monitored file . Look for elk stack with email output in logstash . Don't forget to enable logging first . 2- use a web app you code to generate a mail when someone do a get on this file. 

My assumption is that you were looking at something like Cricket or Cacti. Both of those (like MRTG) can look at the SNMP counters and record graphs of usage. Very awesome and powerful stuff. I have added links to a couple VMApps that have Cacti bundled in. NOTE I have not used either of these VMapps but one is recommended by www.petri.co.il, always a good site. 

Also, if you need more flexibility, think of putting a bash script in between nagios and you. This can let you send out messages with greater flexibility, for example you don't want recovery emails sent to your automated ticket creator. 

If you can use a startup script in a GPO this is easy If not, then if you are not too skillful with scripting, I would do a laymans approach. First use a tool like angryIP to get a listing of all of the windows desktops you want to modify the tool with 

1- If you want comment to your perf we need to see your logstash filter config . Logstash performance is a mix of filter/output/worker setup . More filter = less event/seconds . A good idea is to scale wide if you have logstash perf problems . More worker more instance could increase event/seconds perf . People work with sender to rabbimq queu and scale logstash node behind . 2- see 1 3- there is IO limits and sometine its better to have more node. Elasticsearch is designed to work with shard/node etc . 4- logstash monitoring is only process monitoring for the moment . There is some clue about doing that with java debugger but you have to find information in logstash user group . For elasticsearch there is marvel to monitor you elasticsearch cluster . 

It might not be appropriate for your situation, but I got around having multiple contacts for the same person in Nagios by using distro groups. Instead of setting up an individual, I setup up groups in exchange. The Nagios contacts never change, but the distro groups fluctuate all the time. 

Agree with everything above. The only thing I would make sure to look at is checking to see if you somehow enabled SSL on the check (that will cause havoc) or visa versa, if you are requiring SSL that it is enabled. And as previously mentioned, review the local config (nsclient.ini or nrpe.cfg) and find out what port you are trying to connect to. Then run a telnet from a remote machine and see if you are able to get to it.