NEVER delete a known_hosts file, because it will wipe out all the seen keys! And a MitM attack against you will be much easier. Open it with text editor and replace/delete *a single string starting with a hostname. After a hostname there's a key, so either update the key or delete just one string and connect to a new key+address pair 

You should compile a compiler by hand with CFLAGS "-g -ggdb" and compile the GDB itself too, use last versions. I've faced same problem in different circumstances, but IDE restored it's normal debugging abilities after a recompile cycle I've mentioned upstrings. And - when you're replacing something in Debian systems - make SURE that you're using script, not just simple replacement 

a simple way is to use Grub for ARM. UPDATE: It works with a help of U-boot, so the uBoot actually boots up a Grub kernel, take a look here - it's a full step-by-step guide I used when I was working with G4A+uBoot, it is not so hard to compile. To achieve the exact task you want you use to make 2 boot partitions and the rest is for your main system. You're booting the first boot partition, it works, make a sync/copy if the upgrades are made and tested to be working OK. To rollback - just as usual with grub - just use another boot menu option. UPDATE#2: you can use UART TTY to have a console or just make a button-press to send a keycodes. It's a simple way of restoring hopelessly-broken system. The more complicated ways are : 

after that by a link I've pointed upstrings make wpa_supplicant ( install it like that : ) a service too, and set it up to be working as you wish, i.e. your RPi associates with AP you're about to use, receives IP+DNS, can ping/wget, e.t.c. After that - disable and stop the service just like we did it upstrings : 

After that here goes the magic :) to switch from mode to another just stop the services from a previous mode and start the needed ones(i.e. stop and start and ) like this: 

Use a VNC server on your RPi with big display, then connect to it via VNC client from your RPi. It is that simple 

Next, configure ISC-DHCPD and hostapd for your AP mode, check them to be working as AP, i.e. you can join a network and obtain an IP address, DNS from your DHCP is pingable from a device and working. After that use this cheatsheet on SystemD to make dhcpd and hostapd not start automatically on boot : 

Same problem occured a year+ ago for me, here is the reason: most modules are 5V tolerant for a RTC chip, but the battery charger is strictly 3.3V! So if you power it on 5V - it will start choking battery with 5V(checked it with my multimeter) - and it dies. Use strictly 3.3V and check your battery - one of my modules had a faulty one, I've replaced it and it's still ok for 1year+, another module has a badly inserted one, but the battery was good - it just loosed it's contact sometimes: I just removed it and replugged it firmly - and it's OK still too, for 1year+ time. 

No transmitter will "like" an antenna being just cut off - it will fry for sure. Disable the built-in WiFi hardware in your OS, or - if it's a privacy concern - in your OS image disable the specific device support by VendorID/DeviceID pair, so there will be no way to detect it. If you need even more security+privacy - play with dtb-lists to prevent even an externally-built module to detect the WiFi chip and use a kernel modules signature check. But don't cut off the antenna - it's not the way it's done properly 

It's simple =) The apps that causing a freeze condition you're experiencing are installed from binary distributions(packages via , binary downloads, etc) - recompile all the stuff with your kernel headers and sources to properly utilize your RT patch in your software. This will stop this kind of truble : it also happens by the same mechanism in case of compatibility implications between kernel/modules, kernel/software etc. If you will still have such problems after a FULL rebuild - write here so I'll be able to help you further 

It's definately not just udev - it's a fex/bin/dtbs overlays magic. For VGA you better use an external media converter from GPIO/HDMI, hdmi-based ones are in a whoresale worldwide. VGA will be difficult or even impossible because of lacking of DAC's : it's an analog interface... 

after that I'm usually cloning to the same dir into folder a kernel I desire. After that do your regular make-cycle. Install everything but the kernel. After that brew a kernel(exec from folder where you've just completed build and installed everything but the kernel) : 

after that link output for your case and we will continue FINAL UPDATE: source build did the trick, the problem was with an outdated Qt in packages. The configuration string : 

First, if they're USB ones - re-plug them after the boot is over. If it does not help at all - try using an externally powered USB hub, replugging a hub may also help. It's a rare but typical issue for Linux systems, I meet it from time to time. Can you SSH into your RPi3? If you can, please send an output of and full - so I will be able to help you further 

yes, and a long time ago. Try /etc/network/interfaces : it's a proper place to make a config. DHCP client can assign only one IP, as DHCP protocol itself. Even more : DHCP is for getting a config from server. If you have a local per-host config, then use a proper place for it in your system 

if it gives nothing - then it's not that case, but if it gives a number, then type your username in command - an example for user : 

it's simple : you can use GParted to shrink your original SD card's main partition, then ISO -> WinIMAGE as usual. 

The part you should replace with full path that commands will show you. And if running from unprivileged user - make sure that it's in group - sometimes this old part of permission settings does float up. How to check: 

It's a usual linux and Unix problem, nothing Pi-related. Here is the problem: your libs need to be symlinked. Do and become a root for such an operation. And let's troubleshoot it! First, find them, like this: 

a proper way to do it is to use Debain's update-alternatives UPD: people are too lazy to jyst Read The Fine Manual : 

press Ctrl-Alt-Backspace, Ctrl-Alt-F2 or F3, F4. Ctrl-F2 or F3, F4. If it won't give you the text login prompt - post here, we'll look further. If you'll have a login prompt : login, and use your Pi =) 

Yes you can, or better use a 10Amp-powered USB hub UPD: I'm using this one with a 10Amp block(the one which goes with a hub is 3.5 Amps). I've opened it and seen a VERY good base board with huge reserved potential with it. I'm using it for 5 years with 10Amp DC block, not a single problem or heating(checked with pyrometer). 

If your libraries for OpenCV are built with hard float too - I see no problems using the flags you've provided. 

uninstall alsa : only one of them is working at the same time, see official website and an official diagram. Alsa interface can be enabled, but it's not a basement for PulseAudio at all, FYI 

So - the main part - none of the levels mentioned upstrings are extra, not one of them is replacing another, all are good for their tasks. Do not try to replace them to ensimplify things - you will be very disappointed by the glictches like I used to have with ZRam. 

You're lacking of Python's environment variables. Make them exported in a system-wide and root shell profiles and also check PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH variables - make them specified manually and restart the whole system, i.e. reboot/powercycle it. Then it will work 

dot-files are NOT for web and HTTP protocols, so your is correct. Use SFTP(FTP insife SSH) - FileZilla also supports it - and don't forget to check in with the same user, that will be accessing it, like for static files and for dynamic scripts. It's not a requirement to have a separated user for PHP scripts, by the way, but never the less - pay attention to access rughts. CHMOD command will be at help 

You need to elaborate cron/atrun job scheduling for your authenticated users, quite a lot of web interfaces available, so suit yourself with any secure one 

Had a same kind of issue, ended up with a proper USB powering. Used exactly this hardware to mak it go away : 

It seems that you're experiencing a low current from your power supply, to verify it use a device like this one : it's bloody cheap and will serve you well for a long time. And - plug your SD card to another RPi or Linux and run 

yes, no problem yes, but make sure to check a pull-up 4k resistor on data line and power on SPI interface line. 

simulate this circuit – Schematic created using CircuitLab I2C will be just fine, but don't forget to apply a power and use diodes to ensure a proper power flow 

Yes, in one single string. The secret here is in "&&" construction - it's a type of queue when the next element will be executed only if the previous one haven't failed. So wherever from you'll make a call for this pipe, check for exitcode 0. It will guarantee you that everything was OK switching the modes. That's it, feel free to ask questions if you need more help! 

If the device chip/implementation requires DMA - you can not disable it, because there will be no way to transfer data there and back again. And - about the latency - usind DMA reduces latency, definitely not increasing it! You should try a different timer HZ frequencies for your kernel config to play with latencies, but never disable a DMA! Also try to change the preemption/task-switching algorythm in your kernel config. It seems that your kernel does not fit your task. UPDATE: here is the video $URL$ 

Just add a shellscript code in rc.local to check greater than zero, and start your python code after it's loaded. or - just load it via modprobe in rc.local. 

refer to Pulse audio docs and Debian pulseaudio-related wiki. Raspbian is a Debian-style system, so it will work for you 

To do so you need to enable serial console on RaspberryPi-hosted OS - it's not hardware-only feature. For bootscreen it's a line at the end of , for your OS distribution refer to it's docs 

It takes alot of time to figure the TRUE SOLUTION out : upgrade your kernel. I'm making my own Linux distro now because of too many bugs in Rasbpian and Ubuntu for RPi's... The problem you've mentioned is "gone with the kernel". Use an official Git from kernel.org, I do recommend you start with a stable one. 

used a power-meter to find a volt-amp dumpings, and - used a power supply, monitoring it at the same time by using an additional USB powermeter 

It is possible, I suggest you to use a lighttpd with a webservice for your app. After that - just switch between hostapd(AP mode) and wpa_supplicant(client mode). It is as simple as stop one service and start another wia shell command. UPDATE: Some tips. What is the simplest way is to use a systemd as a triggerhappy switcheroo, and let it be done like this : 

I do recommend you to use cURL from a command-line in conjunction with Perl UserAgent. We can develop a solution together if you wish 

looks the DNS issue : after you're unplugging your OS still tries to use it's DNS servers, especially if you have a DHCP on . Add/change in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config : 

this will add user to group without breaking things up UPDATE: additional check command to find out what are the files found: 

If you need a speed like 19200 to 115200 bauds - do not even bother yourself with SPI! Use I2C interface - it's designed exactly for it. For SPI(and for I2C) there are two rules must-be in checklist : 

It's not so obvious from a start but you don't have a proper image that is able to boot. Even making uImage target. Weird, but true. You need the toolset for RPi kernels : 

A-GPS is what you're talking about. It is not bad, but it depends on a place : in a busy city centre it can be even more accurate, than a normal/true GPS, because it lacks of satellite signals due to high towers/houses and there's usually more cell base stations around. But in an open places classical GPS is the best and more accurate, usually. 

On Windows OS you need this free tool : Paragon ExtFS for Windows UPDATE: If you have such a problem and also have mentioned FileZilla, I presume you have a Windows host. If you have a Linux host - just insert a card into your host's reader, and you will have a partition able to be copied. On Windows same thing is realised by the tool I've mentioned, install and just run it - your extFS partitions will be mapped as disks, go and get your files. If you need to make a full copy - will be a good start, if you're entering your SSH as user - just use a latest FileZilla and use it to copy via Ftp-over-SSH(sftp), works like a charm