There is no way to do export the VPN settings AND password. The password is the problem since it is encrypted, and uses your key to decrypt it. If you want to use your VPN as the end all method, you could both use TeamViewer (the quick support version does not even need to be installed, it just runs), and you could get access to his computer, and set up the VPN and password. 

Sorry, you can't in the long run. If you are a local admin, you could probably change it in the registry, but the default update interval on group policy is 90 minutes, meaning it would change it back then every 90 munites...a real pain in the butt. If you really want it enabled, and you are on a network where you can talk to your admin, ask them to do this: Create a new OU and move your computer to it. They can then make a copy of the current GP renamed, and then make the change you requested. They would then link the changed GP to the new OU. Whether they will do this or not it is hard to say. For me, it would mostly depend on it you left the ports open I needed to manage your computer (this might negate your reason for doing it though), otherwise I have no problem with a user wanting to be a bit more secure. 

You have to do it at the command line now with this command: vssadmin Resize ShadowStorage /For=C: /On=C: /Maxsize=3GB $URL$ 

In the short run, go to Control Panel>Network and Sharing Center>Change Adapter Settings, and right-click on your wireless adapter and disable, then re-enable it. In the long run, see if there is a driver update for your wireless network card, and a firmware update for your wireless access point/router. 

I would not use Windows Backup image feature...Look through this site for the number of problems people have using that feature. You could find yourself really scrambling, and not meeting this requirement: "restorable very quickly if anything was to go wrong". If you want a product that works flawlessly virtually every time, since they are just regular PC's, buy Acronis True Image Home 2011. You will also need to buy the Acronis True Image Home 2011 Plus Pack for the bare metal restore features. Right now, there is a sale, and you can get three licenses of the base product for $80 plus $30 each for the plus pack. $URL$ $URL$ 

The only major damage you get from losing power is usually to the hard drive, so since you are not worried about data, and it is on a volatile medium, you can do that with no fear. 

If you are happy with your old one, the way it looks, and if fits into your new computer connector-wise, then the answer if that it is fine, and you could spend the money better elsewhere. 

I can't be more specific since I do not have a version, but here is how you do in in Word 2010. Go to the Insert tab, then click on Object (it is in the text sub-category over near the far right). You will then see the following screenshot: 

the key structure probably ends here, so add the rest, including the "Deny_All" DWORD value. Any new users logging in, will get that setting. 

Another popular tool is Produkey, which is also free. I have been using this for a long time. You can download it at downoad.com, so it is virus free. $URL$ 

I doubt you can change the way Amazon works, but you could have more than one DNS name. Sign up for a free dynamic DNS account and create a DNS A record (host record). Then download, and install the stub app that updates your new hostname's IP address. $URL$ (sign-up for account) $URL$ (client to load to update your DDNS) 

I would see if the drive is under warranty (should be, most WD have a 3- or 5-year warranty), and have it replaced. I would not store valuable data on a drive I consider not trustworthy. I would also try chkdsk /r , which will try to exclude bad spots on the disk from being written to again. To recover the file, if the chkdsk /r does not do it, I would look at something like File Scavenger, which scans the disk for deleted versions (when it autosaves, for example). You could probably use a recent copy and recreate the few changes made since. 

Unfortunately, you cannot do this for the whole registry itself, but put all the users you do not want to have access into a new group, then give that group the "deny" permission to that regedit.exe program, and anything else you don't want them to touch. Deny will overrule any other permissions you have previously set. You may restrict them too much it you do it on certain folders, and "break" some programs, so test it if you do that. Since it will inherit the permissions, you will need to go to advanced and uncheck that, then when prompted, click copy. This copies the inherited permissions, but makes them originate there. As pointed out, this will not stop a knowledgeable user, but will stop most. If you really need to lock down a computer for a specific user, I recommend this program (It is pretty amazing really): $URL$ 

The problem I see is that you are not going to be able to install anything like VPN software on these Internet Cafe computers, and even if you did, they could have keyloggers installed, leaving you very exposed. Frankly, I would in no way access my bank from any of them, and I would abandon your current plans. As a note: At least with TeamViewer, you could run the Quick Support version, which does not require installation, but you still could fall prey to the keylogging aspect. In other words, you can make the connection in the middle secure, but not both ends of the connection. 

There is no initial default file type associated with .conf files. Personally, I usually set them to open with Notepad. 

Once you click move (as you already described doing), use your arrow keys until you can see it. Then hit enter once it is where you want it. When you close the window, hold the SHIFT key down as that is often (not always) a way that forces the location to save. 

I think that is actually the amount of shared memory from the system, at least in some form, partially. I have a 128MB card, yet it reports 1405MB (I would assume that your number is much lower because it does not need to borrow as much memory from the system as you have a lot more on your card than I do). If you Google "dxdiag video memory" (minus the quotes), you will find that virtually no one reports that figure equaling their actual video memory. In other words, I don't think you have an actual problem. This is for Vista, but probably relevant to Windows 7 also: $URL$ Try using this Windows-integrated tool instead: . Go to . That is what Windows really recognizes. 

I suggest adding this to the command and open it in Word with the orientation set to landscape. Here are others that retrieve a bit less data, so pick the one you want: 

Go to . Then in the menu (Hold ALT down if you don't see it), click and move the wired connection to the top. 

There are rarely free tools for problems like this, and I could find none. You can try following this Microsoft document "Recover a corrupt PowerPoint file": $URL$ 

There is a 1024-character maximum directory path length limit for ZIP files, which are clearly exceeding, so you are going to need to find a different method. Depending on what you are trying to accomplish, I recommend just using the Windows backup program, which will also do compression into a bkf file, which compresses about a 2:1 ratio. What specifically are you trying to accomplish, and maybe we can tell you a better way. 

As a note: Now that you realize that all your e-mail is local to your computer, you see how important it is to back up your PST file. 

Without knowing more about what you are using for an FTP server, it is hard to be more precise, but it has to do with your FTP settings making the default directory something like %userprofile%. Set the default login directory in the FTP server's settings to a static directory like: C:\ftp or C:\inetpub\ftp. As long as the user exists, and the permissions exist, you won't have any problems. 

Based on what you wrote (in other word, you are taking good care of your system), I don't see your system slowing down much at all (not that you are having hallucinations), but that would mean that you might need to look elsewhere for your problem. If you run a few programs simultaneously, your memory is a bit low. For Windows 7, my computer loads about 1.6GB right on boot, so I would not have to open a lot to use up the rest to start caching. I consider 2GB the minimum PRACTICAL memory for Vista/Windows 7 to run well. The reasons I find for bad drive performance include: 

I am thinking that a software firewall may be in the way, and that group policy may be in play too. Run rsop.msc then check Computer Configuration>Administrative Templates>Network>Network Connections>Windows Firewall to see what settings are being pulled down. It might just be cutting off all connectivity until the firewall expressly allows it once it is running. 

I assume this is for a home PC, but if it were for a server, many come with Remote Management Cards, like Dell's DRAC. You could remote into the DRAC card during your native Windows session, and record the DRAC card boot up with any number of screen capturing video programs. $URL$ 

OK, now that I have those clarifications, I can give you an answer. First, you really do not want to use local users for this otherwise you would need to keep the passwords sychronized on both their account and the account you create for them on your computer. You want to use domain users. You would need to add all the domain users to your local group. You will go into and add your new group (right-click, "New group"). You will add members by double-clicking the group and then clicking "add". Click the "Location" button and make sure your domain is where you are picking users from. Click the "Advanced" button and then "Find now". Select your users. 

First thing I would say is that I never install drivers from the CD/DVD that comes with a product. I ALWAYS check to make sure I have the latest from the manufacturer's web site. The link for your product is here: $URL$ Go download it and give that a shot. It lists 64-bit Windows 7 as supported so it should work. 

Make sure that Virtualization is enabled in your BIOS. It might also be a good idea to update your BIOS. I assume that since you are running Windows 7, your PC probably has a new enough processor, but you should download "Software Information for Windows", determine what your processor is, and then check the specs on the Intel site (or AMD) to make sure it even supports virtualization. You can also run this tool: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ That error code is related to directly to virtualization. 

There are others like the Runonce registry keys, legacy files like autoexec.bat, but this covers the most important ones. 

I would first, manually delete the directory and the directory. Hint: With XP, sort them by date, and delete everything older than today, then try to delete the rest. The reason to delete them is that your scans will be faster, and often malware hides there, and is easier to see with all the other junk removed. You can safely delete the files in those directories. Take note of what is left. If it is a wild random file name that won't delete, that is probably your problem, or one of them. Next Install Malwarebytes, Superantispyware, and Hitman Pro that you get from download.com. Boot into Safe mode with Networking and run all three scans. Then run HijackThis from the same download.com. Look at the entries labeled BHO that don't have a company name associated with them. They are probably bad, but you can post your HijackThis log on many sites and have people help you with it specifically. BHO's are designed to run with your browser, but if malware, can infect you every time you open that browser. Then after all that, go back and look at your temp directories again, and see if you can delete the bad files. If not, download Unlocker, again from download.com, and unlock the bad file and delete it. I did not want to do this earlier since depending on what it is attached to, it could crash the system. Lastly, if none of this works, you would probably want to try Combofix. It is a bit of a last resort because if you have certain types of viruses in the boot sector, it can clean them, but render the computer unbootable, at least temporarily. Frankly, this does not happen too often. $URL$