Can I see your excel sheet data that you're trying to use auto fill on? You basically just have to create a formula once and you can use the autofill feature to use the formula with the other data sets. So if you have multiple columns of data, you first create a new row that contains average, another that contains minimum, and another that contains the maximum. To get these values simple click on the arrow next to the AutoSum feature in the top right corner of the HOME tab and choose the respective calculation. After that is done for one column, you can use the autofill feature by selecting the three column cells and use the fill handle in the bottom right corner of the selected cells. This should use the same formulas on the other columns of data. Example: 

If it is not the hosts file or an adware on your computer as pointed out by @pgr, it could possibly be your DNS server. If you're in a country which blocks Google's DNS name, your ought to try changing your DNS server to Google's Public DNS Server. It might be a bit slower than your local DNS servers but will ensure you almost 100% uptime and resolves to the correct servers. You can change your DNS Servers via your network adapter. 

Navigate to: Copy the Favorites folder and paste it on the desktop. Navigate to your current user folder: Delete your Favorites folder (WARNING: This will delete ALL your current favorites) Cut and Paste the Favorites folder from your desktop to this directory (). 

Extract the Driver folder onto the desktop. Right click the Setup.exe file and Open its properties. Click the Compatibility tab. Check the "Run this program in compatibility mode for:" and make sure the the "Windows 7" option is selected from the dropdown list. 

From what you have described it is most likely your PSU that has gone bad. You can do a simple test to check your PSU at your own risk. All you need is a paperclip that you will need to reshape. WARNING: Do not try to insert the paperclip while the power cord or switch is turned on and do not touch the paperclip while the power is on. 

Control Panel > System and Security > Action Center On the left hand corner, click Change User Account Control settings. Drag the slider to Never notify (all the way at the bottom). 

I am preserving a manuscript written by my father. The data files are on 5.25" floppy. I have successfully read the files off the disks, but neither of us knows what format the markup language is. It is one used by book publishers back in the early 1990s. Here are a few lines from one of the files. 

It's easy and straightforward, as long as you can use ssh to connect to the remote end. You can also use (NetCat) to transfer the data. On the receiving machine (e.g., host.example.com): 

This will use far less RAM since you won't have to be running a full desktop environment on the VPS machine. Here's how I do it on my Mac: 

You can pipe into ssh and run a remote command. In this case, the remote command is which will copy stdin into the file. 

The Wikipedia article about the Computer Modern typeface has a bunch of links to Type 1 and OpenType formats. You probably don't need to install all the variations. Just the 12-point size should work for most applications. The smaller sizes are hinted to make them more legible, but you probably won't need those. Most of the links on the Wikipedia page point to the CTAN archives, so you may have to dig around through some directories to get to the TTF and OTF font files. Edit: A friend of mine once pointed out that New Century Schoolbook set at about 110% of its normal width bears a resemblance to Computer Modern. 

Hmm, I should be seeing some output. Ah! Forgot to listen on a different interface. At this point I'd hit the up-arrow to bring back the previous command, then either scroll back to the first argument or press C-a to jump to the start of the command and scroll forward to the first argument. Is there a quicker way to jump to the first argument so I can insert the option? 

I had this happen to me when I used as an SSH server. Apparently, dropbear sets some hard limits before spawning your shell. Switching to OpenSSH solved the problem. 

Can anyone identify the markup language being used here? I have both these original files and the published book. It wouldn't be very difficult for me to figure out what the codes mean. But if the format could be identified, some kind of automatic translator into something more recent (RTF, XML, etc.) might be available. Edit It's like a mystery to be solved! Here's how a table is begun: 

Browsing Sync Service First off and the easiest way to retrieve your favorites is if you have a data sync service like a Google Account with Google Chrome. You can simply login to your Google Account and sync your favorites. If not, there are still other ways. 

Are you sure it is a new laptop? Either way, I would go with the first option since it would be running at a higher speed and after 4 GB of ram it doesn't really help that much. If you need that extra RAM (ex. if you run a lot of high-end programs simultaneously) then the second option is fine but as I pointed out in the comments it will decrease the speed. It just depends on what you want to do. For normal operations such as browsing and running MS office software, and Photoshop, 4gb of ram is fine. 

Test and see if the problem persists. If it does, you can try deleting your user profile. Follow this simple guide from the Google support page. 

you should be able to technically see the uninstall button. If you don't find the string than the program's registry was edited and the uninstall string doesn't exists. This could be caused by malicious content or as a result of program not being installed properly. IT could also be that you're not logged into to the admin account or the account that installed those applications. Most of the icons for the programs are not shown so my best guess would be that they have been uninstalled improperly. Solution You can either find each program's msi, exe and uninstall it using the proper switch but this option will take lots of time and research for each program that you would like to uninstall. For example to uninstall uTorrent, you would either create a batch file or open up a command prompt screen and paste this line: 

You can connect your MacBook Air to your HP computer as long as the computer can capture an input (via a expansion card, etc.). You can then display your screen with any software that is able to display inputs. OR the simplest way to go on about doing this is to connect your desktop monitor directly into the MacBoook Air. This is by far the easiest and the fastest way. 

Right click desktop and select the AMD Catalyst Control Center option. Common Display Tasks > Rotate Desktop Select your monitor and change it to Landscape (or whichever orientation you prefer). 

I'm helping my mother organize her photos in Windows Live Photo Gallery (Windows 7). We've been scanning in slides taken decades ago. We want to arrange the photos by date, so we have been changing the "date taken" on the files. And that's where our troubles lie. To change the date, we right-click on the thumbnail and bring up the Properties. Then we enter the date the slide was taken; say, 10/16/1964. Click on OK and poof! the photo is gone. Just gone. It's not in the trash, it's not in some other folder. Perhaps it has been renamed, but I cannot find it anywhere. I can reproduce this behavior on every photo we've been editing today. We've lost about a dozen just trying to figure out what's going on. (We have backups on the SD card the scanner uses.) Yesterday was a different matter. Oddly, it all worked perfectly yesterday. We haven't changed our process. Any ideas? Update 1 It's not just Windows Live Photo Gallery. Even Windows Explorer does it. Right-click on the image file, change any of the details (subject, tags, date, etc.), click OK and the file disappears. Update 2 Solved, but it's not pretty. You may be asking: what changed between yesterday and today. Answer: McAfee updated its virus definitions. We disabled real-time protection and everything returned to normal. Re-enable real-time protection and files start disappearing. Nice. Another oddity: we went to empty the recycle bin. It said "are you sure you want to delete these 53 items?" (It contained images that we had trashed manually.) But the progress bar indicated it was actually deleting over 3,200 files. Hopefully McAfee hasn't randomly and silently deleted a bunch of other files. 

I would bite the bullet and get another hard drive. That 500GB drive sounds like it may fail at any moment and you shouldn't waste time trying to eek out another few months of service. If the data on that drive is that important to you, surely it's worth $50 for another drive. If you value your data, backups are important. Don't skimp on them. Get yourself a good hard drive enclosure. I have one made of solid aluminum with USB, FW400, FW800, and eSATA ports -- it cost me about $90. I put into it hard drives with five-year warranties. I replace them every 18-24 months. I also subscribe to an online backup service for about $5/mo. My data is backed up in at least two places, both onsite and offsite. As I said in one of my comments, the manufacturers of cheap external hard drives don't expect them to last very long. And they really don't expect consumers to claim warranty repairs, either. They'll just replace your broken drive with a refurbished one, anyway. I know it's hard to differentiate one product from another. The temptation is to go for whatever is cheapest, figuring that the quality must be all about the same. And you're right: for the cheap stuff the quality is all pretty equally poor. Unfortunately, cheap crap is sometimes the only thing available -- the good, quality stuff having been long ago put out of business. 

Resetting the CMOS Settings If disabling fast boot and the utilities I described in the previous section did not work, I would recommend clearing your CMOS settings by resetting the jumper cap on the motherboard. 

First of all try Pressing these key combinations. If that works, you're set! If not, the easiest way to do this is through the Windows built-in Screen Resolution Control Panel Window. Otherwise the graphics card control panel can be used as well. By the hotkey (CTRL+ALT+Arrow), I can tell that you either have Intel or NVIDIA graphics card and its corresponding software. All these methods are explained in detail below. Right click your desktop to determine which graphics card you have. If you have an Intel graphics card, there will be a context menu displaying Graphics Properties. If you have a NVIDIA grpahics card, there will be a context menu displaying NVIDIA Control Panel. If you have an AMD grpahics card, there will be a context menu displaying AMD Catalyst Control Center. Windows Built-In Feature 

So, If you did not format your hard drive and it has not been 28 days since you have installed Windows 8.1, you're in luck. You can simply go ahead and use the automatic diagnostic tool (provided in the link) which will retrieve your personal data and put it back in place. If you don't want that, you can go ahead and recover the bookmarks manually. Every browser works differently in terms of bookmark saving location and importing options so I'll list the three most popular Windows browsers and how to recover each of their bookmarks. Google Chrome 

This should work 100% of the time. If it doesn't, you may have got malicious content on your anti-malware bytes. EDIT: This is an issue with you not being recognized as an admin. You need to confirm your account is listed in the Administrators group. You can do this by following these steps. 

There is no positive functionality they would be missing by having AutoRun disabled. AutoRun is just a feature that makes it easy for less technical users to easily and quickly perform some tasks related to the USB device. If the user is not totally clueless about how to use a computer, AutoRun should be disabled. This should be the case in any business environment. Of course doing this will not guarantee safety (nothing can). If oyu haven't heard of BadUSB, you don't know what USB drives are capable of.