Installation If GNU Parallel is not packaged for your distribution, you can do a personal installation, which does not require root access. It can be done in 10 seconds by doing this: 

I use "Template SMNP Interfaces" to monitor switches. It gives me keys like: ifOutOctets[16] I would like to have an item that covers all ports: 

I have a RAID60 that I want to expand. The current is: 2 axles each having 9 disks + 2 spares. The future is: 4 axles each having 10 disks + 1 spare. So I need to do some --grow to reshape the drives. I thought this would be enough: 

But how do I identify the data to move? I cannot go by age, because the first 10 TB was filled the same day using . I have tried: 

Installation A personal installation does not require root access. It can be done in 10 seconds by doing this: 

GNU Parallel is a general parallelizer and makes is easy to run jobs in parallel on the same machine or on multiple machines you have ssh access to. If you have 32 different jobs you want to run on 4 CPUs, a straight forward way to parallelize is to run 8 jobs on each CPU: 

But this does not work because the command is dequoted by ssh twice where as GNU Parallel only expects it to be dequoted once. So instead use again: 

What are the asterisk logs showing you around the time of the disconnect event? Is it all clients at once that lose their registration, or is it unpredictable? When calls drop do the clients hangup on their own (receive a SIP-goodbye) or are the users getting dead-air hangup then see the client is offline (due to the de-registration failing earlier in the call). If the SIP registration is failing but the RTP conversation is still up it could be one thing, if both RTP and SIP communication end at the same time it could be another issue. How frequently is your server polling the endpoints? Is it happening with calls after a given time? This could indicate a network timer closing the session between the device and the server. If this is predictable you could start capturing conversations between a end point and the server, and in time you may identify a network device that is giving you the problem. 

After not finding any documentation on this setting I wanted to know if anyone here knows what other options are available for this setting. I assume one will be related to the Boss/Admin feature. 

Blocks all ssh access even from 192.168.10.10. Commands used to make changes in UPDATE 2 Zone name appears to influence order so ITsubnet is processed before SSH_access. This is confirmed with: 

maxes out at around 100 MB/s. The new experimental option --pipepart delivers > 2 GB/s, but requires in.txt to be a real (seekable) file: 

This took 20 minutes on a 50 TB filesystem. Oddly enough most of the time was CPU time and not waiting for disk I/O. It used in the order of 100 GB RAM. Now the file system is usable again: 

For other installation options see $URL$ Learn more See more examples: $URL$ Watch the intro videos: $URL$ Walk through the tutorial: $URL$ Sign up for the email list to get support: $URL$ 

So and are clearly busy taking up 64% and 53% of a CPU respectively, but not near 100%. The chunk size (128k) of the RAID was chosen after measuring which chunksize gave the least CPU penalty. If this speed is normal: What is the limiting factor? Can I measure that? If this speed is not normal: How can I find the limiting factor? Can I change that? 

Also I can no longer mount the local nfs on the local machine. I imagine that I some how need to register nfs in rpcinfo. Restarting nfs-kernel-server does not do that (or if it does, it does not work). still works. 

I have setup Zabbix to autodiscover hosts by pinging all IP-address in my range. It then adds the discovered hosts to 'Discovered hosts'. I have an action: Conditions: 

If your looking at VoIP line to replace a personal line you could use this as a very basic phone line, possible for a home. You would need to see if your provider could provide voicemail or call waiting. For a office situation you will want the free inter-PBX calling. If everyone is registering to a 3rd party that 3rd party my charge you for those interoffice calls. Their are several providers which can provide a whole PBX managed offsite, however if your office has a large concurrent call requirement you will need to make sure your location can meet the bandwidth requirements. The biggest benefit of a off site PBX would be if you have a large remote/home office user base. If a majority of your users are in one office a on site PBX may be beneficial. If you looking to convert to VoIP also check what e911 regulation may govern your organization, and confirm your provider can comply with these. 

Protection Mode to protect the network components from the BladeCenter AMM. If a switch is stacked this will be activated be default. 

So as a result then I try to extend, or combine, the sdb1 and sdb2 drive space the logical volume isn't found. 

I'm following the install/setup instructions which are available on both the check_mk and DigitalOcean sites to setup monitoring based on a Ubuntu server. However I am getting errors that several dependencies are missing after installing via . I've manualy downloaded and installed serveral packages, downloading from www.ubuntuupdates.org, and I'm now stuck with the following missing dependencies. 

Again this confirms that Linux sees the device, which is already known. /dev/disk/* sees the RAID'ed internal disks as one device with 2 partition. It does not see the external disk: 

Ian Howson gives a good answer on why it is slow. If you delete files in parallel you may see an increase in speed due to the deletion may use the same blocks and thus can save rewriting the same block many times. So try: 

So that could be related to the problem. Edit 2: I tried removing and re-installing portmap and nfs-kernel-server. No luck. So I mucked around with and did so the output is now: 

There are several solutions. The workers are behind NAT. No access to a jump host. No access to firewall. For this you need some sort of VPN that can traverse the firewall. A TOR hidden service for port 22 on the workers can be used here. If all the workers are TOR-enabled: 

The two servers are the same model. They have the same modules loaded, but they are not using the same modules. shows that the two servers of the same model use very different RAID controllers (I hate it when vendors do that: F*cking change the model number if it is not the same model!). On the server, where the disk works, you do not need to setup anything to access a disk that is not in a RAID. But on the server, where the disk does not work, you need to set the disk up as a volume in the RAID controller before Linux detects it. So I have now done that, and the disk is now accessible. Thanks to Falcon Momot and Sergey Vlasov for pointing me in the right direction. 

UPDATE 1 I've revisiting multi-Zone approach as recommended. The issue appears that my "ssh" people are being caught up with my ITsubnet zone. This is preventing them from SSH access. 

Then when I try to apply similar rules, using firewalld rich rules, I am able to create a rule to allow either the IT subnet or the monitoring server, but not both. I appear to have the same problem as described in this question. I've seen several other pages with proposed solutions, but all have failed in one way or another. I've since reverted my test box back to defaults. After I update this ICMP rule I will need to write a more restrictive SSH access lists, which allows a smaller subset of the IT range to access these machines. At this point adding the SSH rules in this process would have unexpected results. 

I use this in part of a longer script I wrote for a migration projects. This is pulling names and csv I built earlier in the same script. 

If the previous steps did not work you may need to activate Protected Mode in I/O Modules > Admin/Power/Restart. After selecting "Perform action" the following message will be showed. You have selected to enable protected mode on I/O module(s) 10. 

Blocking all traffic, not just ICMP Without the "NOT address drop" line I can ping the server on devices I shouldn't be able to With the "NOT address drop" line I can not ping from my monitoring server at 10.10.10.10 Adding the rules to iptables, using the commands above, does work but are deleted on a reboot 

I have just installed a SAS disk into a Debian server. It was detected correctly and everything was fine. Then I moved the SAS disk to a different Debian server, the same hardware model and running same version of Debian, but here the SAS disk is detected as /dev/sg7 and not /dev/sdb. works fine, but and hang. I tried putting the SAS disk in another slot: Same problem. How can I force the SAS disk to be detected as /dev/sdb? 

works between two machines that are both NAT'ed behind different NAT-walls does not require modification of NAT-wall (i.e. port forwarding is no-go) works as both client and server on both Windows 7+XP and GNU/Linux is free (as in freedom - not price) software 

So you are running around 600 jobs per second. The overhead for a single GNU Parallel job is in the order of 2-5 ms, so when you are getting more than 200 jobs per second, GNU Parallel will not perform better without tweaking. The tweak is to have more s spawining jobs in parallel. From $URL$ 

Consumer grade DSLs are way cheaper than getting at leased line, so for my building complex I am considering getting a bunch of DSLs instead of a leased line. I feel confident that I am not the first to do that, so I am wondering if there is a Linux router that will somehow distribute the traffic over these DSLs. We are not talking about real bundling as the ISP should not be required to do anything. My initial ideas are along the lines of computing a hash based on sender IP and recipient C-class and based on this hash choose the DSL, so all packets between a given client and server will always take the same DSL. And if a DSL goes down it should of course not be chosen. But as I said: I cannot be the first to do this, so I feel confident there is a tested way of doing this.