On incoming packets, if and only if the source MAC address is not present in the table will the CAM overflow have any effect since the switch will have no free slot to add this new one and will therefore skip this step. If the address is already present in the table, the switch will reset its aging timer as usual. On outgoing packets, if and only if the destination MAC address is not present in the table will the switch indeed send the packet through "all" of its interfaces. If the MAC address is present in the table, the switch has strictly no reason to act weirdly: it will simply proceed as usual and send the packet only through the port associated to the MAC address. 

First and foremost, I must indicate that I am mostly active on the IT Security StackExchange website. Since this current website may reach a different public I find it wiser to tell that, while I adopt the point of view of a potential attacker, all information in this post is given only for educational purposes, in particular in order to understand the concrete threats that are affecting networks beyond myths and oversimplified discourses. I do not encourage nor do I approve the use of the methods described below on any unauthorized network (and I really mean it: if you want to learn get GNS3, that's what this whole thread is about :) !). Sorry for the length of this answer, but despite my researches I did not manage to find any satisfying resource on the web on this topic. Most "proof-of-concepts" are biased either by stopping at the CAM table being filled step and assuming but never really demonstrating the switch reaction, or by using some artificial tricks like clearing the switch MAC table before flooding. My goal here is to provide concrete steps suitable both for simulated and real environments, focusing on the issues related to GNS3 virtualization and common wrong approaches, and most importantly to provide sufficient background information to understand why things are the way they are. 

what is the usage of network clock in the router? Is it something to do only with pseudowire T1/E1? What I am looking is the need of network clock - syncE in the router? What is the significance? Why is it important for any router to support so? 

In my topology, I have connected spirent - traffic generator to MRV switch ( L1 switch) and then connected to CISCO switch. I am seeing some input errors on this interface. What does it mean? Does it mean that some packets are bad from spirent MRV switch. here is the show command of the interface gi 0/13. In my topology, spirent is connected to MRV switch ( L1 switch). MRV switch interface gi 0/13 is connected to the CISCO switch interface gi 0/14. I don't see any errors on the gi 0/14 of the cisco switch. However, I see the errors on the gi 0/13 ,which is the interface coming from MRV. Does it mean that CISCO switch is telling that there is some problem in the MRV switch? 

I am trying to clear up concept here. This is regarding shaper using Token bucket algorithm. Let’s assume that the bucket depth is 1500 bytes. And assume that the data rate is 2Bps (very slow one). This means that unless the bucket doesn't have tokens unlike leaky bucket, the data will not be transmitted. This implies that there will be a delay/drop in the packet transmission. If so, then don’t you think that this will add congestion in the traffic? Imagine, a synchronous communication, where the receiver will time out and ask for re-transmission. Thus, there will be a lot of packets in the network. So, don’t you think that leaky bucket is better than token bucket? At least you don’t have a possibility of duplicate packets in leaky bucket. Only disadvantage of leaky bucket is that it will transmit the data always with a constant bit rate. So, it will throttle the bit rate to a lower value even when the source is sending at a higher bit rate. 

From techopedia - It does establish it connection through an ISP so it travels the internet Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) Definition - What does Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) mean? A metropolitan area network (MAN) is similar to a local area network (LAN) but spans an entire city or campus. MANs are formed by connecting multiple LANs. Thus, MANs are larger than LANs but smaller than wide area networks (WAN). MANs are extremely efficient and provide fast communication via high-speed carriers, such as fiber optic cables. 

BGP is used for external and Internal routing between "internetworks", BGP is commonly used by ISPs and large organizations to route throught the internet using ASN (autonomous system number). External BGP is used by ISPs to communicate to another ISP or any organization that has a "Backbone". These types of routing occur outside the LAN, instead these routes materializes in a WAN or which is the internet. 

All IGP (Interior gateway protocols) routing protocols works at layer 3. External BGP works at layer 4, while internal works at layer 3. 

Enterprise Networks - Enterprise networks basically are the most basic and common networks that exist, these networks have a simple topology, mainly consist of network switches, and router facing the internet connected to the ISP. The switches may vary from layer 2 or layer 3 switches and VLAN configured. Data Centers - Data Center networks are the second most complex networks, most big internet startups have their own data centers, i.e Google, Facebook. Data Centers have high end switches and routers for optimal speed and performance. In addition technologies such as VMWARE data center virtualization helps in maximizing performance and limiting the physical devices that runs in this network. ISP Networks - ISP networks are the most complex networks that exist, these networks operates in the WAN or the "internet". It is important to note that the largest WAN is the "internet" and it is a network of networks that is decentralized. 

Here is my understanding, when the packet is within subnet - only ARP or ARP cache comes into picture. Basically, the L2 is enough - we just need to match the device ADDRESS - i.e. MAC ADDRESS. Now, when the packet is for other subnet - the device is look for its routing table, based on the rule the packet will be send to the gateway. My question is when this happens - do the sender will change the ethernet frame destination MAC address to router MAC address? As the sender doesn't know anything about the destination MAC address. Is my understanding right. Once the router will receive( a router will receive the packet because its mac address matches) the packet, it will check the destination IP and based on the routing table - it will forward the packet to the appropriate gateway. Once the packet moves to the other gateway, will they change the source IP as the other gateway IP? If the other gateway is in the same subnet as of the destination subnet. They will simply use ARP or ARP CACHE -right. However,a router needs to track that the PACKET actually belongs to the other network - Is it a NAT - network address table that it will look for. Thus, the 

In a typical enterprise network, the NAT router has inside and outside interfaces, the inside interface is connected to the LAN and the outside interface is connected to the ISP. Is the NAT router connected directly to the ISP router or it is connected to a T1 ISP circuit before it reaches the ISP backbone/core network? 

Physical Layer - Deals with hardware network devices, i.e laptops, mobile phones, desktops. Layer 1 is known to be a collision domain, Layer 1 PDU (protocol data unit is bits). Data/link layer - This layer concerns with layer 2 switches, broadcast domains, VLANS, STP, VTP. The protocol data unit of this layer is called frames. Network Layer - This is when routing occurs, most routing protocols works at this layer. This is also known as the IP layer, where VLANS communicate. The PDU for this layer is known as packets. Transport layer - Transport layer deals with TCP and UDP ports, these is where the packets from layers 3 are sent to their destination ports. It is important to remember that TCP is a connection-oriented protocol while UDP is connection-less oriented protocol (non guranteed delivery of data). The PDU for this layer is datagrams. Session layer - Session layer is where the packets are encapsulated from being decapsulated from layer 3. This layer deals with multiple server side programming languages where you can create software-based applications and convert them into -> The Presentation layer - This layer is about the client-side codes you see on your web browser, or when you do a right-click and view the source, these are mainly HTM/CSS/Javascript codes that allows you to view your -> The Application layer - This is where the GUI (Graphical user interface) translates the HTML/CSS codes from layer 6 to this layer. What you see on your web browser is the front end GUI. Layer 5,6,7 PDU is called message.