If you are trying to do the analogous thing as JavaScript function use command to display text on the console screen. 

I've been moving directories using and but it requires the user to go to the destination directory to "paste" them into. There's a undocumented command which I don't know how to use. And I also guess it may be done through external shell command somehow, but I want to do it natively through the command. 

I am using gVim and there's no vertical split option in it's File menu item. I want to map the default and its abbreviation to and respectively, so that it replaces the horizontal split everywhere. 

it seems the run box is just a gui version of command with the default switch value which sets the path for starting directory as every other command it reacts to , etc special environment variables moreover it understands the pattern to directly open web pages, eg ctrl+r (or ) opens the website with the default web browser application, as it knows that the argument is url this time the interesting part on these environment variables is the order of items in the list they contain, as it matters for setting search priority, and is important when looking for homonymous files or directories 

I think you can assign the default user and/or password in MySQL configuration file, that's for user profile or system-wide. More. 

it case-insensitively searches the file, determines the line, and then gets its 5th element () delimited by whitespace by default (absent option) saving the value in the variable 

will set the variable to the full name of that file inside a batch script. It loops through the command output (). 

Here points to the first argument, and points to the all arguments. I'd always use and double quote if there's only one argument to omit spaces which are treated as special characters, namely as separators (for commands). Moreover, you can define your aliases macros in a separate file, say and then source it using 

I have a tab open and I want to know the source of this tab as I opened this tab from another tab by clicking on a link. It's especially happening and useful when reading Wikipedia articles and opening wikiLinks in other tabs to read later but as the tabs grow in amount I usually forget the source that lead me to that tab so can't make a relation. In some cases I rely on button, when opening in the current tab, or in Wikipedia articles when the title of the article is different, to find and go back to the original source page, but it's not always happening. 

Try to unplug all your USB devices, repeating the steps you took to create the sound. Now one by one plug them back in and keep checking if that device caused the problem. Another way might be to take a look at the 'safely remove hardware' menu via the tray icon before and after the sound. 

I cannot seem to remove the number 7,8 nor drag the allocated partition (E:) to the beginning of the file. I already tried making the unallocated space bigger by shrinking the partition, but once I added it back to the partition, the 7,8MB remained unallocated. 

Try inserting a one-celled table inside that cell and insert the picture in that table, so you have a picture inside the new one-celled table. 

But when I finish this setup and I go back to Windows (even after reboot), the settings remain the same. Even in Windows Explorer: 

How do I make sure the ClearType settings apply? edit I also tried to run as administrator with elevated privileges, but that doesn't work either. 

Is it possible to delay the default shutdown from Windows? I installed BitTorrent Sync and I want to give it 30 minutes to finish syncing when I go away from my computer and then shut down. I know this is possible using 

When I do not create a keyboard event (i.e. pressing or releasing a key) for more than 5 seconds, the numlock and other LEDs on my keyboard go off. When I'm holding a key for more than 5 seconds and the keyboard 'shuts down', I also hear the device disconnected sound in Windows 8.1. I've never had this until I got this new keyboard, a "microsoft wired keyboard 200". My USB mouse still seems to work properly even when the keyboard shuts down. It's really annoying because I can't hold any key (including Shift or Backspace) for more than a few seconds and I constantly see the LEDs flashing. When I press or release a button, the keyboard will go on instantly again, but when it's done by releasing a key, the "release event" will not be sent to the PC, causing the key to be "stuck" while it actually isn't pressed. This is solved by pressing it again. Does anyone know a solution for this problem? 

Which mounts a system will perform on startup is defined in the file , so you will need to define your mount here to make it persistant over a reboot. should give you all information needed. 

If you want to read the existing data on the Disk, you are in for a hard time. It might be easier to use Linux (e.g. in a virtual machine) to mount it and extract the data, but a Google search for "ext3 windows driver" will point you in the right direction. If you just want to reformat the drive, "Delete Volume" is what you want - for every visible volume. You can then create one or more new volume(s) and assign a drive letter. 

Typically they are not. We always run our HP servers with bog standard RAM from whatever vendor. There are a few pitfalls though: Some vendors use "convincors" to make you fork out extorionate prices - for example you lose the "HP Smart Memory" feature (whatever good this does). Not all vendors are honest with their specs - double and triple check, that your Rank count, registered/registered, etc. match what you actually have, not what the vendor says. 

The important part about this is "after that" - the only concept UNIX pipes have of "after that" is, that they usually close, but they will execute after the first command has started, not after ist has ended. So what you need to do, is employ a shell script - something which does have the concept of "one after the other": 

point to a hardware problem on a SATA bus. In my experience the first (and easiest and most likely to succeed) action to take is to reseat all SATA connections of the relevant Disk, even better to replace the SATA cable. 

So basically: If you want your computer to enforce sharing privileges, your computer must be able to authenticate and authorize the other user - either by asking a DC or by having the accounts set up locally. 

Most likely you are missing some setup stages: A serial port has some parameters (baud rate, bit length, stop bit count, parity, flow control) that need to be set to the correct values. I suspect you do not set them at all, resulting your writes to be unreadable by the device. The "3rd party software" then sets them, resulting in further writes to be readable. Check out the command, it might help you. 

If your virus scan doesn't pick it up as a virus, it doesn't mean it isn't dangerous. If you're wondering what the program can do, try searching the program name () on Google. This page says it's not a harmful program and can be deleted through the software add/remove option in the Control Panel: $URL$ This page also refers to it as safe, although it's only found on one computer. They also refer to the same distributor: $URL$ I would say it's an outdated piece of software. If you can find the software in the Control Panel option under 'Logo Business Solutions company' and you do not use it, I'd suggest you remove it. If you're unsure if you can remove it, try renaming the file under or moving it to another location. If your software and computer keep working fine, you can remove the program from your computer. 

It's some kind of glitch in the syncing process (maybe something got corrupted?). I'm not sure but some people have been able to fix it by toggling the 'sync automatically' button and sync their iDevice. Possibly repeat once or twice. If that doesn't work, try duplicating the file or importing it again to iTunes (copy it from iTunes Media if it's there). Another issue might be that the file of the song is corrupted. Try to identify the file and see if you can play it with any other music player. If not, delete it from there and download, rip or buy the song again. 

Right click on the windows audio icon, and open Playback Devices. If supported, your HDMI audio should show up there somewhere.. Select it and set it to default. You may need to relog to Windows for it to work but it should work. 

I'm having a problem where my ClearType settings made with the built-in ClearType Tuner won't apply to any other applications, or even the operating system. I've set my Cleartype so that the text is anti-aliased but monochrome: 

I'd say that it depends on the computer. Bluray readers are not directly connected to the video output on a computer. The bluray acts as a storage device, storing an encoded video. Since the stored, encoded video will not change, the computer is likely to decode the video to the same pixels each time you play a bluray. So you would expect the output to be the exact same every single time you do so. But depending on the current workload the computer has to deal with, it may or may not keep up with de decoding process. The video output might experience stuttering or screentearing. Sometimes ever artifacts when a GPU has been overclocked too much or some hardware is failing. Some video's are encoded with an algorithm that makes it possible to define a decode 'quality'. This means the software will choose a quality based on usersettings and the amount of work the CPU or GPU can handle. HDMI often supports an audio output, and audio is very likely to put through some equalizing and possibly some other filters. This is done with all kinds of algorithms. Even though you might expect the exact same binary signal, it could appear otherwise. I think it's very unlikely to measure the same signal twice, but I'm not saying it's impossible.. 

would move all the files in the current directory with extension to the specified (relative or absolute) path, that is folder of the user here. 

Apart from setting alias by which is stored only in the current session, meaning it will go out on , and creating and moving or to or to run them directly without typing their path, which are usually located at path, you can press Ctrl+L to clear the screen which is consistent (I hope) in both Linux and Windows. The default extensions (to omit when writing the full name of the file) are stored in variable (check them by issuing ). This is an environment variable meaning it is permanently defined, and always there for you to refer. You can set it permanently by (as which will keep the previous extension and add the new appending to the already existing ones). The default path for executables (runnable files) to refer to is stored at variable ( or command). 

I'm playing from that's not from playlist but from the media in In Windows it goes on playing the second item in the directory tree after the first is done, but in Fedora VLC stops the music when the current song reaches the end. I tried to search in Preferences in All Settings, but couldn't find anything related, or I might miss the correct option. I want it to continue playing the folder, that is the music library, without me having to click for next song shortcut. 

here starting from the directory it will recursively () search for the string in all () files incase-sensitively () alongside displaying their line numbers () if found 

there's no error, but when i execute the file pop-up message appears, and basically it doesn't work previously i tried to associate files with and it worked, the problem here seems to be the equals sign in 's switch, i think the system can't handle it i think, despite switches () and subcommands after the executable name can work with parameters, but somehow fails to do so so i'm asking for solutions :) 

Is it possible to open a part of the file as a separate vertical split window in Vim? Say I have a file with hundred lines, and from the fortieth up until and including sixtieth lines I want to be rendered as a separate locked window within the main window as a split "tab" to focus better on that part of the file, and the changes I made there would reflect on the whole file in the main window as well. I have a very long file and I would like to implement such thing to manage its contents better. 

The compression ratio of VM snapshot is heavily influenced by the data stored in that VM. Just imagine a VM with a big database of mainly (very well compressible) text a.o.t. a VM with lots of JPEG images. That being said, seems to achieve a good compression ratio on many types of data and is supported on almost any platform in existance. For even broader platform support at the cost of a lesser compression ratio go for . 

You can verify if this is a power issue by running the drive from a powered USB hub. My experience is, that el-cheapo chinese hubs are fine, as long as you don't use power-hungry devices on all ports. 

Moving a RAID1 between a 410 and a 800 is seamless: If you move just replug the backplane, the drive will be found and recognized immediately. I have done so quite a few times. Some Gotchas: 

You cant print from JavaScript without user interaction - and this is a good thing: Think of a rogue website, that just prints and prints and prints, costing you lots of money for print supplies and effectively DOSing your printer. 

Expanding on the answer by @grawity: The term "local" stems from a time, when there was only a single UNIX. In this context, all systems running the same version would have a big set of files identical between all hosts, with accordingly only a minority of other files differing between hosts. These non-universal files would either be configuration data in , or optitional files in or "something else, local to the host" - i.e. . In modern times, when there are (wildly) different members of the UNIX family tree and storage requirements for the OS being a tiny fraction of the total storage typically available, many coming in different flavours (*BSD, Linux distros), the term "local" has been watered down, maybe even into a historical relict. 

OSX is (U)EFI only - this means, that you either need a compatible implementation (i.e. buy a Mac) or use a software implementation, that itself is started from legacy BIOS mode (i.e. Clover or Chamaeleon). Your Windos installation is set up for a BIOS system, not an EFI system, so you are in a situation, where you can start either the one or the other. In addition to that, the partition table for a BIOS Windows install needs to be MBR, which doesn't allow OSX to boot. The only known (to me) workaround is to use two harddrives, with Clover or friends on one and Windows on the other, then boot from one of them via the BIOS boot menu.