We've begun our migration to windows 7 and we ran into an interesting issue. When we hit "CTRL+ALT+DEL" we are brought to the "User selection Screen". Normally, this screen will have an icon for every local user for the machine. These machines are Domain members with "Fast User Switch" disabled so no user names are listed only the "Other User" option. If you click "Other User" or hit enter, the system moves on to the normal login screen where it prompts for user name and password. Here's the issue: We want to find a way to skip over the part where a user selects "Other User". We essentially want the system to always assume that we always want "Other User" and to go directly to the login screen when a user hits "CTRL+ALT+DEL". What I find odd is that the "Other User" doesn't show up until we've had more than one domain user log in. Right after we re-image the machine, the login process goes directly to the user credential prompt. [EDIT] Security Policies set by Active Directory: 

Disable print spooler Restart machine Delete contents of: C:\windows\system32\spool\drivers\w32x86 Enable print spooler and start service. Delete the network printer object and re-add network printer off of server. 

I have an NFS3 server with multiple clients. Each client is sequentially reading a different large file, and performance is very poor. Here is what I am observing in on the server for the disk where the files reside: 

The plan for the two WAN interfaces is as follows. All outbound traffic will go to the primary, with exceptions based on destination IP/subnet or possibly on src+dest IPs/subnets. Such exceptions should be routed to the secondary. It would be very nice if, should the primary go down, the secondary would automatically take over for all outbound traffic. I am reasonably sure that I can put something together based on dd-wrt. However, I'd like to hear from you what alternatives are out there (especially something easier to set up for my use case, even if it means paying more for the hardware.) 

As you can see, is 100%. At the same time, the aggregate I/O throughput () is about 18MB/s, which is 10-20 times slower than what the disk is capable of. This, and the ratio of to , lead me to conclude that instead of reading large chunks of each file at a time, NFS ends up reading the files in smallish chunks with lots of interleaving of chunks between different files. This in turns leads to lots of disk seeks, killing performance. Would you say the conclusion is justified by the evidence? What would you recommend as a way to address this? I can change the reading app, and can tweak NFS settings on both the server and the client. I am using RedHat 5.6 with kernel 2.6.18, which I believe limits to 32KB (I'd be happy to be proved wrong on this). edit: This is how things look when there's only a single client reading a single file: 

Length of System Up Time If you want to find out how long the system has been online you can do this (this is also an alternate code style): 

So you've already done the hard part of generating your list in . You're probably over thinking how to do the email and that's what's tripping you up. Remember, Powershell is there to make your life easier. If it seems too complicated, there's likely an easier way to do it. Anyway you need to figure out the following variables and add them to your code: 

You'll need to ensure your Linux servers are CIM enabled and then use the CIM powershell cmdlets to interact with the Linux server remotely. You can read more about it here: CIM Cmdlets for Non-Windows OS If you're new to CIM, as in this is the first you've heard of it, you'll want to familiarize yourself with what CIM is and how it works. Then attempt to try the CIM cmdlets. 

Mark, I had a lot of fun tracking this down for you. I can totally see where your line of thought is, but you're asking the wrong question. The question should be "Why can't I establish a 'servermanagerworkflows' session on my machine?" If you look in the and open the module and jump to line 383 there's an entry where Microsoft is intentionally trying to create a local session using the configuration. After the session is instantiated the magic happens in the following Try/Catch/Finally blocks. If you ran in a PS prompt on it's own, I'm betting you'd get the same error. To reinforce this, run and I'll bet you don't see as part of the list. So, next step is to get you the session config you need. Run cmdlet and agree to the prompts. If successful run again and see if the workflows are listed. If they are, you should be good to go, or at least generate a new set of errors. Cheers! 

Scheduled Tasks is what you need. You can set a trigger for both workstation lock and workstation unlock. If you need to deploy it out to more machines, use SCHTASKS.EXE (provided with windows). Hope that helps 

I am running into an interesting issue with some applications not evaluating properly in SCCM 2012. The example software I have is Adobe reader 11. When I install using an MSI deployment through software center, everything works great. The problem comes up when someone goes to the adobe website and downloads the executable installer and runs that. Now software center detects the software as uninstalled and will list is as an available title. I am using the "Windows installer" detection method and looking for this GUID "{AC76BA86-7AD7-1033-7B44-AB0000000001}". When I look in the AppDiscovery.log, all I get is an "+++ Application not discovered." message. So here's the question: Where can I see what the detection method is querying and what it gets back? Bonus Question: When performing a "Windows Installer" detection, where does the system look for that GUID? Thanks in advance 

Who is going to be managing this service? Who is going to install new objects to this service? (ie: New printers or drivers) How difficult is it to restart the harware/VM in the event of a major problem? Does the system have enough resources to manage the load? What other services does this hardware provide? Any mission critical? How critical is print services? 

The above is great except that as soon as someone calls the variable becomes a standard type (whereby add and remove methods don't work). I tried methods of changing how I declared the preset values. It appears that the act of pre-populating is converting the type to a regular array. I figured this was because I was using with the presets so I've tried as well. This doesn't work either: 

The WMI class uses the MSI provider to collect installed program data. This means you're only going to get data on software/packages installed using MSI. Further, calling this class causes a repair action to be executed on every program it returns. Most of the time this isn't an issue, but it will fill up the event log and can cause issues for some software. You can get more detail on this link: Win32_Product Class Most scripters, coders, etc use one of two things; 1) Registry Query, 2) WMI query of the SCCM class . Obviously the SCCM class requires SCCM to be installed on the host. You can read more about that HERE. So that really only leaves the registry query for most folx. Don't fret though, because all the work was already done for you by TSG. Your pot of gold is "Use PowerShell to Quickly Find Installed Software" While I'd do things slightly differently than in that post, it has all the heavy lifting already written. With a little aptitude and some google searching you can customize as you wish. 

So far, no luck on the fonts. I have to have a "silent installer" for these fonts so I can push it out to the 100+ machines this needs to go on. Thanks in advance 

So I am trying to get Remote Installation Service Running on a Windows Server 2003 R2 Standard Edition with Service Pack 2 installed. I am trying to integrate network drivers into the image and I keep getting this warning in the event log. 

Placement of services is more of a thought exercise to come to your own conclusion. My guess based off of the number of printers and the number of servers, is that printing is a low priority service that only a few people manage. If that is the case, it really doesn't matter where you put it. Hope this helps 

[Background] We have been having trouble with our network clients suddenly being unable to print. They get an odd error with a hex code. We determined that something in the driver was messed up and we could resolve the issue by clearing the driver cache and reinstalling the driver. This happens to random computers every so often. We're assuming this is a bug with the latest Dell 2330dn driver since that is the only model that has this problem. [Problem] What we are looking to do is write a Powershell script that would clear the driver cache and redownload the driver. I see a ton of scripts out there to manage queues, servers, and ports, but nothing for local driver cache management. [Current Workaround] Since we have to do this manually, I'll write out the steps so you know what we want this script to replicate. 

I am seeing the following messages in my server's . They look like stack traces and are not preceded by any narrative (e.g. "such-and-such has gone wrong"). I am almost certain they are related to I/O problems I am experiencing, but it would be instructive to understand what exactly these messages are and what triggers them. 

I am trying to configure Postfix so that it would accept mail from authenticated clients outside . When I try to send a test email from my iPhone, which is configured to use port 25, SSL and password authentication, the mail gets rejected by Postfix. I get the following in : 

I have two Linux machines, each equipped with a Solarflare SFN5122F 10GbE NIC. The two NICs are connected together with an SFP+ Direct Attach cable. I am using netperf to measure TCP throughput between the two machines. On one box, I run: 

After much experimentation it turned out I had to add to (not to be confused with ). This has fixed it. 

The measured throughput is 1.3Gb/s. This is 7.5x below the theoretical maximum, and only 30% faster than 1GbE. What steps can I take to troubleshoot this? 

Clearly, it takes some resources to run . However, the amount of resources it needs is tiny, so the performance impact will be negligible (probably not even measurable). If we take Linux as an example, all does is read a couple of small pseudo-files in , format their contents and print out the result. 

None of the properties there appear to map to any tickets (run a gm on it too). Granted, this could be ignorance on my part and the method to produce the tickets just isn't aptly named or described. I've tried looking at the SMlets source code to glean some insight, but I'm not a C# developer so some of it goes over my head. I've also tried to get some understanding and help from the msdn page for EnterpriseManagementObject Class, but to no avail. Hopefully there's a really simple solution to this and I'm just over thinking it. But, how do you get the Affected User for a SCSM ticket using powershell? Preferably a service request ticket. 

So what happened? Powershell interpreted our input as a single array containing two strings which were passed to the first (positionally) variable. To get the desired result using parenthesis you'd have to do this: 

Powershell is a parsed and interpreted language. The interpreter see's parenthesis as a control structure and is not expected or required at the Call Site. Consider the following example function: 

Detail My first thought is that I'm using the cmdlet wrong or winrm isn't working (it is). I also thought that maybe there's a difference in the way it's called that's causing the failure. Following that logic I reviewed the following technet page on the cmdlet: Research: $URL$ Based on the writing there, I couldn't discern an obvious user error. So I've tried a few things to figure it out. First I thought maybe I'm just constantly screwing up the typing so I did this: