This is mostly answered. Regarding your first two issues... they're also "normal" in this day an age of "security via inconvenience" to us users. They are that anything you download from Internet Explorer is tagged so that when you (or some surreptitious virus pretending to be "you") try to let it loose, the system warns you that the internet is untrusted. You can probably get around it by downloading programs with Firefox, Safari or something else next time, but they all still give you a milder popup before letting you run exe and msi programs... just less clicking IIRC. When you pass that warning, there's the other box called User Account control, which cannot be avoided. Well, that's a half-truth 

Avoiding a full Cygwin-like install, is there some equivalent to the Japanese-English translation/reference tool gWaei from Ubuntu/Gnome, but for Windows? If not, what open source translators allow us to review and look up both English and Kanji characters? Update: My Gozoku test-drive was not good, because I discovered it doesn't take romaji input like gWaei seemlessly does (ie: you can't type the english characters for "arigato" and get a japanese dict lookup in Gozoku because it is a pure dictionary). Also, Gozoku answers a search with a result tree that isn't pastable without some expansion of branches, right-clicking and choosing "save to clipboard." gWaei allows you to easily get a flat list of results where you don't HAVE to copy whole words. When you lack a Japanese keyboard layout or the knowlege to use one, cutting bits and pieces of different japanese results as if they were newspaper collages is great for putting together a google-able search is nice. I'll check out the sourceforge build of gWaei and see if I needn't look elsewhere. 

I got a cheap 64GB card from eBay for like $10 for my Venue 8 Pro Windows 8 tablet, and after installing something to a folder or copying large files to any folder, that folder just gets corrupted. I've permanently mounted it to a folder on my C drive, and say after downloading a torrent to the Downloads folder (on it) or downloading a game from Steam (where Steam is installed on the SD card), the Steamapps folder just gets corrupted. I can't delete these corrupted folders. I've analyzed that it happens after a lot of writes to the SD card and the only way to fix it is to format the card. The FS is NTFS. Is this happening because this is a cheap SD card, or is there any other reason? Screenshot of the error while browsing the folder: 

On KeyTweak, it wouldn't even fetch the key in KeyMapper it would just open a new browser window. I've tried pressing Function and that Esc button, control and the escape button, etc. 

I ended up remapping the Caps Lock key with the Esc key since nothing was recognizing that Home button key. 

I have a 500GB hard drive (model - HM500JJ) and I need to take the top cover off as I need to fix it but I can't seem to find the right screw driver for it. I've bought a Torx T8 screw driver and it seemed to have the right structure but it was too big to fit in and I've looked everywhere for a way to open it but just can't find the right screwdriver online. 

Gnome's Places menu only lists SYSTEM (mostly the r/w Casper filesystem portion of the LiveUSB stick) and OS (my local Windows hard drive). Both are visible as fuseblock /sda devices, so there's nothing to un-hide. 

top - 11:09:20 up 9 min, 2 users, load average: 0.14, 0.39, 0.39 Tasks: 178 total, 2 running, 176 sleeping, 0 stopped, 0 zombie Cpu(s): 2.3%us, 1.0%sy, 0.0%ni, 96.5%id, 0.0%wa, 0.0%hi, 0.2%si, 0.0%st Mem: 3081644k total, 1178648k used, 1902996k free, 128244k buffers Swap: 0k total, 0k used, 0k free, 392340k cached PID USER PR NI VIRT RES SHR S %CPU %MEM TIME+ COMMAND 2595 user 20 0 82868 21m 11m S 3 0.7 0:13.02 npviewer.bin 1375 root 20 0 167m 15m 8400 S 2 0.5 0:13.72 Xorg 2665 user 20 0 397m 15m 11m S 1 0.5 0:00.24 gnome-terminal 2689 user 20 0 19276 1364 956 R 1 0.0 0:00.09 top 2073 user 20 0 310m 33m 8568 S 0 1.1 0:05.65 compiz 2200 user 20 0 212m 10m 8240 S 0 0.3 0:01.97 multiload-apple 2469 user 20 0 612m 63m 32m S 0 2.1 0:17.31 chromium-browse 

Some MS programs will flat-out tell you that they were made for Spanish only, like IE and won't even install. Regardless, I had a USA English PC with Spanish Office XP (meaning version 2002). My regional settings are for English / USA, in case you were wondering --I know what multilingual programs on Windows act like. Office 2002 only came with the Spanish strings and has no English workarounds at all. Unless MS is more generous now in spite of the bad economy, assume nothing improved for Office 2011, especially if both sell in your local country. For more evidence that you won't often get multilingual-bundled installers from Microsoft, you can confirm MS downloads like Internet Explorer are split by language. Functionality is the same --the only difference I did notice is that Spanish 2002 has English/USA spelling dictionaries built-in while English 2002 didn't have all of the Spanish dictionaries (Spanish grammar and thesaurus were missing I think.) 

I am going to shift away from the RAM performance to battery performance. I have a Macbook Air laptop and I use it mostly for school. It has 2GBs of RAM and it pretty smooth when doing tasks on it. It starts to freeze up after the battery drains to about 10% and becomes almost unusable. The performance would be almost the same. It also depends what you do on your computer. If you are a hard user, a laptop probably won't suit you, however if all you do is check your e-mail, then a laptop or even a tablet would be perfect. A laptop is usually just a miniature desktop with some limitations like power. 

I was trying to take apart my laptop to replace the DC jack for it, and the screw inside of the casing was very hard to remove, so after messing with it for about 15 minutes, the plus sign (or the head) was erased and became more of a circular square. Is there any way to take it out without breaking anything? 

Well there are a lot of reasons actually. It's a lot easier to damage an ARM device, so most manufacturers keep it closed. It's really the same thing with Apple, actually. You would have to root your Android in order to mess with it a little bit more. Also, warranties with phones/tablets are different than warranties with computers. 

If the owner of a Mac hasn't enabled the root account (via NetInfo manager and the usual suspects) then is it possible to successfully execute a sudo'd command to effect root tasks? Why / Why not? I don't have an unadulterated Mac to test this. 

The first column of the output with the four digit numbers (in this particular output) is the process ID for the process name at the far right of the table. BTW, press 'q' to exit top or it will keep polling and updating endlessly every few seconds. top only shows a screenful's worth of lines with the hungriest processes rather than the dozens of total processes. You can use slhck's pattern to find other processes. Even my own example had about 200 processes running. You probably are looking for your process ID as an intermediate step to something else. If you need to kill a process, because it's out of control, you can research kill and killall. you can type man kill and it will give you useful info. To exit that manpage and most other interactive CLI programs such as top, press 'q'. 

One of the sad realiations for budding programmers is discovering that Windows has no way to just output an information GUI message in short DOS one-liners. VBS is your best bet, but I'm pretty sure you don't get ctype "streams" with it, and you'll have to look elsewhere anyway. What you want delves into the murky waters of full-on Windows programming. I can't figure out from your oftstream whether you only have university level C++ knowledge. If so, Windows / C++ GUI is totally not going to be covered and you'll have to "learn" about windows specific .h files, .lib files and windows-aware IDE like code::blocks, and tons of other things. If you've done Windows dev before and aren't afraid of completely alien function calls and a lack of void main(), then head over to $URL$ and $URL$ Extension changes don't help you...you couldn't just rename my post to exe and have it execute, for example. You need a target language that you know WELL, or if this is not a school project, then look into "automation tools" like AutoIt and others, and prepare to depend on their runtimes being on every computer that your code expects to run. For portability, the easiest thing is to just google a few VBS functions and combine them into your desired short script (but you're trying to avoid vb). 

Up to this point everything worked correctly, and once the command was finished (took less than an hour), I went ahead and rebooted, removing my old flash drive. Once it booted in with the new flash drive I was extremely happy that everything worked flawlessly until I went to install some packages with YUM, and I only have 12.5 MB of free space remaining! I went back into gparted and this is the "screen shot" of it: 

I have a Toshiba Satellite laptop and I am buying another one, newer laptop and I have about 200GBs of stuff like games/apps on my hard drive. I could upload it online or do it with a USB drive but that will take a LONG time. Is it possible to transfer all data (possibly the OS too) on a different hard drive? Or just switch the hard drive of one laptop and stick it in another one? 

I bought a bluetooth keyboard for $13, and it's pretty good except instead of the Esc key, there's a little square and it opens up Internet Explorer when it's pressed! I've tried 3 key remapping programs, and NONE worked, they either say that the key is not supported or it's disabled... I have no idea what to do, I am a gamer so the Esc key is crucial for me. This is a picture of it: 

I am able to change my MAC to anything in Kali Linux, but not in Windows? It needs to be changed to 50:b7:c3:3d:1c:b6. I tried using SMAC and no luck. I heard there were limits on what I can change it to, but how to go around them?