What does it look like in the routing table? The following is an example output of EIGRP speaking routers with an equal-cost route for : 

Note that by themselves, VLANs do not enhance security. They simply limit broadcast domains. If the world was only as big as your diagram above, sure, traffic would always be isolated within a single VLAN. In the real world, traffic needs to be routed in order to be useful. You must control traffic between the VLANs with a layer-3 aware device such as a layer-3 switch, router or firewall. 

The author of your reference article does not appear to fully understand or clearly illustrate the relationship of Bandwidth/Latency. 

You can only deactivate Time-Based Keys as per the Cisco Documentation. The permanent key must be replaced with another permanent key with fewer features. 

By default, the router will install the route learned via EIGRP into the routing table. This is because EIGRP has a lower Administrative Distance than OSPF. It should also be noted that both learned routes will remain in their respective routing processes. Thus, the router knows about both but will only select one route when routing. Routers select routes in the following order: 

While you may not be able to tell whether queues are explicitly being congested from the reports, you are often able to tell whether tags are being properly applied and honored. 

$URL$ The line up/down Message ID can be found in the "Cisco ASA Series Syslog Messages" documentation. 

Interface F0/0 and F0/1 on R1 are misconfigured. R1 interface F0/0 is configured for instead of . R1 interface F0/1 is configured for instead of . I recommend either "swapping" your cables or re-IP addressing your interfaces. 

WAN interface is a vague term but it has a couple widely used meanings. @RonMaupin has given a great description of what WAN interfaces mean to enterprises. In addition to his description, I would also add BGP as another important WAN edge protocol. However, WAN interfaces often have a slightly different meaning for SOHO and Small Business networking devices. The WAN interface is often a routed interface with a few additional features preconfigured. The features are bulleted below. The remaining ports on such a device are often switched interfaces. The purpose is to accept an ethernet handoff from a device such as a cable modem or DSL modem and provide internet access to the switched ports/interfaces. 

Aside from CLI show commands, you may want to look into 3rd party software with traffic visibility. I cannot give specific names as applications and vendor recommendations are off-topic. However, there are a lot of options out there that give granular visibility of the traffic flows and break them down and track traffic tags such as IP ToS. Look for applications with NetFlow support. Cisco basic NetFlow v5 will track the following information: 

R1 likely does not have a route to and R0 likely does not have a route back to . By default, a router will add connected routes into its routing table. This means that R1 will know how to get to , and . The router will not dynamically share or learn its routes with other routers without a dynamic routing protocol such RIP, OSPF, EIGRP or BGP. A router can be configured to statically install routes as well. A common example is a default route or "all zeros" route. One solution would be to run a dynamic routing protocol across R0 and R1. Another solution would be to manually configure static routes on R0 and R1. Static Routes 

With two default routes you can achieve redundancy but other routers in your network will just follow the default route to the closest core router so load balancing might not be according to your needs. The easy solution is to just have full table everywhere but if some routers aren't up for it (limited TCAM or similar) you might need to opt for using a default route. Make sure that your core routers have a direct link between each other and exchange the full table over the iBGP session between them. If both core routers inject a default route but one loses its ISP link it needs to see the routes from the other core router so it still have valid paths to the Internet. With full tables like this you can also fine-tune the local-preference/MED/whatever of routes you receive from respective ISP to achieve more even load balancing. Do note how your other routers will still follow the default so traffic might go via one core router to the next core router and exit to your ISP. Full table avoids that. 

It would probably be wise to cache the result so that you can get your timezone even if your Internet connection is down. 

Since your sever socket is listening to one port and I presume one IP address (although it could be more) the remaining factors are the IP address and port on the remote end, i.e. the client. For IPv4 there are 2^32 addresses, out of which roughly 3.5 billion are usable. There are 2^16 ports, most of which won't be used by clients as most TCP stacks use only a high range but let's say we are dealing with a client that could use any port, so that gives you a potential number of connections around 3.5*65000 = 229*10^12. That's more than you could ever hope to realistically handle on a single server. 

XR probably wants NETCONF 1.1. If you enable debugging you might find something like this in your log: 

I will admit I'm not sure if the UE, provided it is still within radio coverage of both serving areas, would signal PDP deactivation in the "old" serving area before moving into the new area. If nothing else, you will hit the timeout in GGSN. 

seems to indicate that the transport network carrying voice calls relies on a centralised clock. SDH would be an example of a technology that does rely on synchronised clocks and using caesium clocks as a source of that clock is fairly common. A Caesium clock will only give you a frequency, which is what is required for operating an SDH network. GPS could be an alternative source that would also provide absolute time, i.e. date, time of date and so forth. It's not uncommon to use both, with GPS as primary and Caesium as a backup. Using multiple clocks also allows you to detect drift (someone could attempt tampering with GPS). Without accurate clocks you will get frame slips in your SDH network effectively dropping bits in your payload. Again, as put by Wikipedia: 

Yes, simply not sending any data on the PDP for at least one timeout. In practice this is rare as the timeout is often set for hours or even days and modern devices tend to send various keepalives at regular intervals (minutes). Another case is when the mobile carrier is performing planned maintenance on their GGSN and wishes to move sessions over to another GGSN by deactivating the current PDP contexts. 

Depending on your use-case, a simple work-around could be to use VPCs or the pre-built Ubuntu Docker appliance as hosts instead. 

You are receiving the error because the "password" you are entering is not a proper MD5 hash. Check to verify that you are trying to enter a complete MD5 hash and that it is not another type of hash. Cleartext, Type 4 or Type 7 passwords will not suffice. You may be trying to use a password obscured by a Vigenère cipher. The Vigenère cipher is often refered as a Type 7 password. It is associated with the and commands. Type 7 password hashes look something like this: 

Cisco has a large listing of Syslog Messages and Severity level here: Syslog Messages This list includes Syslog Messages for the following: 

By default, an ASA will not include VPN-tunneled routes into the routing table. Since they are not technically in the routing table, BGP cannot advertise them with a statement. Setting a Reverse-Route allows the route to be injected into the routing table. It is enable in the crypto map portion of the VPN. Example: 

To oversimplify, devices running STP will broadcast BPDUs and listen for duplicate messages. If duplicate messages are heard, a loop will be detected and the STP domain will converge by blocking the appropriate ports. Many consumer-grade devices do not call out support for IEEE 802.1D or newer flavors of STP such as this common D-Link switch. Consumer-grade devices, without this mechanism, can form a loop between itself, or with another consumer-grade layer-2 device. The rest of the broadcast domain could be then subjected to the resulting crippling, broadcast traffic even though it is not a part of the actual layer-2 switching loop. There are some mechanisms (such as Storm Control) and strategies to reduce the risk and the effects of the negative traffic but they are outside the scope of this post. 

There are a few strategies to deploying AnyConnect. The Cisco AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client Administrator Guide, Release 4.4 describes them in detail including client prerequisites and configurations. 

There is another feature of to consider: External Routes. One trick I have used to influence EIGRP Primary and Secondary paths over DMVPN is to use a dedicated EIGRP AS for the secondary path and then redistribute it into the primary AS. Redistributed routes will be injected into the EIGRP process as External Routes. Externals Routes will have an AD (Administrative Distance) of 190 by default and therefore be less preferred. This is not always optimal nor can it always be applied in all use-cases but it is something to consider. 

Configurations should be sync'ed unless commands have been sent to the Secondary unit directly. If you suspect otherwise, a configuration comparison should be made. Some other recommendations are listed below. Ask any engineer and they will likely have additional recommendations. 

In the event of all things equal and the routing process supports it, equal-cost load balancing will occur. Exactly how the router handles the load-balancing depends on your configuration, version of IOS and potentially your router platform. Cisco dives into the matter with the following documents. 

I admit, I have never attempted this before. However, it appears you should be able to with a properly configured custom "Event List". According to the Cisco ASDM User Guide (excerpts): 

In terms of functionality they would be roughly equal. The difference is typically in how you deploy them and manage them. The classic approach typically involves a physical machine whereas the SDN approach likely uses a virtual firewall spun up in a VM. It also manages the firewall in a completely programmatic way. There are some technologies that relate to SDNish data centers, like VXLAN or NSH (Network Services Header) that you might find support for in a firewall focused on SDN while it might not be there, yet, in a classic firewall. 

Obviously we need to fall on bit boundary so you can't try to divide it into seven, or some other silly number, equal subnets: 

LTE is a standard for building a mobile network. It lists the available bands on which to operate on and Band 4 is one of those bands. See $URL$ for a full list. If someone mentions only "LTE" than the band is not specified but you can look up which bands are in used by a specific operator in a given country on $URL$ For example, where I live (Sweden), that would be band 3, 7, 8 and 20 for my operator but no-one ever refers to it as "LTE with band 3,7,8 and 20", it's just called "4G" or "LTE". There could be a few different reasons for specifically mentioning the support of a band. If it is from a representative of the mobile operator it is likely they perceive it as a selling point. Lower frequencies have lower attenuation and therefore propagate further enabling better coverage. Higher frequencies are usually handed out in larger blocks so to enable higher throughput. Note how 20MHz of 900MHz spectra will enable the same speed as a 20MHz block in the 2600MHz band. Another reason, however a bit unlikely to be pitched by a operator representative, is that certain bands are less commonly supported on handsets, so you might want to check that the device you intend to use support the bands that the operator is using. 

So we know we need 2 bits to describe those four subnets you wanted. If you instead wanted 8 subnets: 

I would argue that repeaters hardly do exist today. A repeater amplifies the electric signal but is a completely analogue device and does not in any way interpret the signal. A repeater is the same thing as a 2-port hub although I've seen some companies starting to use the term repeater for equipment that resembles a switch more than a hub. Contrast this with a switch that receives a frame, interprets it and extracts the destination MAC address which it then acts upon to forward the frame to it's correct destination. A bridge is the same thing as a 2-port switch. Due to the low cost of switches and their support for higher speeds, the market for hubs/repeaters is slim to none. 

Assuming this is an Ethernet link a loopback test would be useless unless you could also send some frames over the link. Unlike POS, frames are only sent when there is traffic to send and you won't see CRC errors if you don't have any frames. There are devices supporting BERT (bit error rate test) so you can put a loopback fibre and run a test to determine if the optical module and framer is working correctly but it's not common on classic Ethernet switches.