The entirety of the OS depends on the first few sectors of the hard drive. Without this critical first sector, the entire hard drive may as well be filled with random bits. You can grab a Live Linux OS disc, pop it in to your computer, and run a command like the following (run as root): 

For all dual-purpose providers (e.g. cable with Internet), you can imagine that the traffic going over the wire is like a highway with an express lane, or perhaps even better, an automated highway system. The express lane/automated highway is a dedicated portion of road where everyone is expected to travel at the same speed and have a constant flow. There is never any congestion because it's carefully laid out to allow a specific amount of traffic across it. The provider allocates all of the channels you can watch to specific frequencies. The traffic is always at a specific bandwidth regardless if anyone is watching that particular channel or not, and everyone gets the same data at the same time. This bandwidth is calculated beforehand, and providers can reliably predict how much bandwidth they have available for those frequencies. The Internet, on the other hand, is like a normal highway. When it's not utilized very much, everyone can go as fast as they like, but as traffic increases, then some data has to delayed so everyone gets a fair chance. This means that when the Internet bandwidth is nearly saturated, people will start to notice skipping, buffering, distorted audio and video, and so on. Therefore, the primary reason why cable, satellite, and over-the-air programming is in real time is because it uses dedicated, preallocated bandwidth, which is carefully calculated and measured out to minimize interference, while the Internet is always competing to try and provide a balanced amount of bandwidth for everyone that wants to use it. Once the medium is saturated, everyone starts to feel the effects, from web pages taking longer to load to grainy video streams and distorted audio. 

You don't normally activate a restore partition directly. Turn on/reboot the computer, and on the BIOS screen (or logo, etc), press the "Recovery" key, and follow the wizard. The recovery key is usually F10, F11, or F12, or may be a dedicated button, such as the ThinkPad's "blue button." 

There's no simple search you could in Wire Shark to find specific commands like that. The reason is that users may insert sequences of bytes that correspond to a command without actually sending it all at once. For example , where is a backspace, will be interpreted as , as would , where is the left-arrow escape sequence. They could make it even more complicated, but the point is-- you simply don't have an easy way of finding even three simple characters in order over the wire. Correct, but complicated methods, would probably include hooking into system calls to see which folders/drives/etc are accessed, and so on. 

Assuming it has the right number of pins, yes. There's no real side effect of heat shields in most systems, so it doesn't really matter. However, do be aware about mixing different speeds, timings, and ECC. You may put it in only to discover that your computer beeps about three times and won't turn on (configuration mismatch). Or, you may notice that despite the increase in RAM, your system runs slower (speed mismatch). Or, in some rare cases, you might find that your motherboard actually doesn't support more than 8GB of memory, or fails to boot because the RAM is outside of the system's operating speed ranges (BIOS/memory controller limitations). None of these situations are permanent and shouldn't be fatal to your hardware, but I would strongly suggest consulting your motherboard's manual (or the manufacturer's spec sheets for laptops) before you waste your time installing something that won't work or will have an overall negative system performance. It should only take a couple of minutes with a manual to see the limits on memory, speed, etc with regards to RAM, and if you have no idea what the RAM itself is, there's usually an identifying part number sticker you can Google to determine if it's within the system's specifications. 

According to this technet article, Windows 7 does not prevent logging in, does not reboot, and does not cripple normal applications while in an unactivated state. This means that you can run long-running applications as long as you'd like, so long as you're not trying to do one of the precious few things that are prohibited while in this state (e.g. using Windows Update for optional installs). There will be a longer than usual login time (you have to dismiss a notification dialog), your desktop wallpaper will disappear, and you will be unable to install optional updates, use KMS, or access genuine Microsoft downloads (programs that require a genuine copy of Windows to download/install). The relevant information regarding this experience follows: 

10.X.X.X is a Class A private network IP range. All values in here are always on a private network. Some routers utilize 192.168.X.X, a Class C private network IP range. You should always see one of these ranges as your "default gateway," unless you're directly connected to the internet. Most providers today are using NATs unless you request a static IP address. This means that your IP of 88.207.251.1 is probably shared with other "Entreprise des P&T" customers on your local node (possibly your neighborhood or city). Using NAT allows service providers to provide many more customers service than they could using only their allocated IP addresses. Since the IPv4 space has been completely exhausted, such tricks are necessary to keep the Internet going while everyone upgrades to IPv6. Contact your service provider if you want a dedicated IP address, and expect to pay more for the service. 

When booting into BIOS, it will only recognise the USB as 1 device, no matter how many partitions you create. However, you can possibly create a GRUB-like OS loader on the USB. Then, when you boot onto the USB, from there you can select the OS. The tutorial below shows how to make dual-boot USB: $URL$ 

This was an idea brought up by a friend. Due to the CPU producing heat, one would think that it would be more energy-efficient to reuse that heat energy. Through what method could heat from the CPU be converted into electrical energy, which goes back into the computer? How much electricity could be produced, and would it be significant enough to go through the trouble of harnessing it? 

A possible problem as that your phone and your friend's MacBook can access 5GHz networks, while your laptop, which sounds quite old, only can access 2.4GHz networks. Possible solutions are: 

Does anyone know how to fix this? (Was a pain typing this, makes me understand just how much I use the e key) Edit: I tested the keyboard with a Linux live CD. First time I booted, the keys will not registrar in a notepad app unless I repetitively press them around 20 times. I rebooted into Linux again, this time the keyboard worked OK, but missed keystrokes occasionally. In both situations it was the same keys as described above that were malfunctioning. After rebooting into Windows, the keyboard functioned like the 2nd situation above (occasional missed strokes) for around 5min. Then no amount of pressing on the malfunctioning keys could make it register. 

Insert a USB flash drive into a running computer Open a Command Prompt window as an administrator. Type In the new command line window that opens, to determine the USB flash drive number or drive letter, at the command prompt, type , and then click ENTER. The list disk command displays all the disks on the computer. Note the drive number or drive letter of the USB flash drive At the command prompt, type , where X is the drive number or drive letter of the USB flash drive, and then click ENTER. Type , and the click ENTER. This command deletes all data from the USB flash drive. To create a new primary partition on the USB flash drive, type , and then click ENTER To select the partition that you just created, type , and then click ENTER. To format the partition, type , and then click ENTER. Type , and then click ENTER. Type , and then click ENTER. 

Laptop: Acer Aspire S5 371t Date of purchase: early 2016 I have RemixOS and Windows 10 dual booted. Last night I attempted to shut down the laptop on Windows 10, but in the morning it was open and was booted on RemixOS. I shut it down by holding the power button. When I then tried to turn on the laptop, the LED power indicator turned on, the keyboard backlight turns on, the fan runs quite loudly, but the screen does not turn on no matter how long I wait, and I cannot access the BIOS. I can shut down the laptop by holding the power button. I have tried pressing the battery reset button on the back of the case, and holding the power button for a minute, but neither did anything. What can I do? 

Go to: Desktop > Right Click > NVIDIA Control Panel > Manage 3D Settings > Global Settings > Set preferred graphcis processor to High-performance NVIDIA processor. Note that it may be named differently due to my PC having the GeForce 820M not GTX 1050, but the default settings should all be in that control panel. 

When viewing the history on Chrome, it does not typically get recorded. Unless the other user is a computer forensics expert, he/she will not be able to see you viewed the history, nor will they know if you delete something from the history. Note I am using Chrome version 60.0.3112.101. 

Possible solution: Start menu > Settings > System > Multitasking > Virtual Desktops Play around with the settings and see what you prefer. 

I have set up a FTP server on my laptop using IIS manager. I can access it by typing ftp://192.168.1.xxx (my laptop's internal IP), but only on the laptop I have set up the server. I have set up port forwarding on my router (External port: 20-20, Internal port: 21-21, protocol: TCP), however, the warning: "Note: Access to the modem FTP Server via FTP port change to 2121 on the WAN. On the LAN is still on port 21." appears. The site is inaccessible on any other device that is on the same network. Below is the screenshot of the port forwarding options: $URL$ 

A possible reason for this problem is the list from which the BIOS chooses the boot device was altered, so it may be booting from something other than your hard drive. A possible solution is to remove all connected USB devices and reboot. If this does not work, shut down the computer, press and HOLD F2 and power on. In the BIOS, you can change the boot order manually. Finally, if the first option is your hard drive or Windows Boot Manager, but you still can't boot, your hard drive might be corrupt. 

My keyboard keys have recently been malfunctioning. Sometimes, the keys do not register at all, and sometimes, it as to be pressed and held with force to register. Only a few select keys are effected, namely the: right arrow key, \, e, g, h, and 8 and 9 on the numerical keypad. The keyboard was the factory keyboard included with my Asus X751LD laptop. This started after I used a Java application. It is very unlikely to be a hardware issue, as the laptop was never moved or subjected to drops. Another possible factor is I have used Autosofted Keyboard Presser. The keys function, although with lag, after startup, but stop working within a few seconds. I have tried the following to no avail: