Apple's chargers are "universal," meaning they'll work with any country's AC power. All you need is an adapter to allow you to physically insert the prongs of the plug into the wall socket. To determine if any given device is universal, look on the bottom or side of the unit. If something on the label reads "100-240v" or "110-220v" or something like that, it'll work. If, on the other hand, it reads something like "110v only", then it is not safe to plug into a 220v socket. 

I would bite the bullet and get another hard drive. That 500GB drive sounds like it may fail at any moment and you shouldn't waste time trying to eek out another few months of service. If the data on that drive is that important to you, surely it's worth $50 for another drive. If you value your data, backups are important. Don't skimp on them. Get yourself a good hard drive enclosure. I have one made of solid aluminum with USB, FW400, FW800, and eSATA ports -- it cost me about $90. I put into it hard drives with five-year warranties. I replace them every 18-24 months. I also subscribe to an online backup service for about $5/mo. My data is backed up in at least two places, both onsite and offsite. As I said in one of my comments, the manufacturers of cheap external hard drives don't expect them to last very long. And they really don't expect consumers to claim warranty repairs, either. They'll just replace your broken drive with a refurbished one, anyway. I know it's hard to differentiate one product from another. The temptation is to go for whatever is cheapest, figuring that the quality must be all about the same. And you're right: for the cheap stuff the quality is all pretty equally poor. Unfortunately, cheap crap is sometimes the only thing available -- the good, quality stuff having been long ago put out of business. 

Hmm, I should be seeing some output. Ah! Forgot to listen on a different interface. At this point I'd hit the up-arrow to bring back the previous command, then either scroll back to the first argument or press C-a to jump to the start of the command and scroll forward to the first argument. Is there a quicker way to jump to the first argument so I can insert the option? 

I'm helping my mother organize her photos in Windows Live Photo Gallery (Windows 7). We've been scanning in slides taken decades ago. We want to arrange the photos by date, so we have been changing the "date taken" on the files. And that's where our troubles lie. To change the date, we right-click on the thumbnail and bring up the Properties. Then we enter the date the slide was taken; say, 10/16/1964. Click on OK and poof! the photo is gone. Just gone. It's not in the trash, it's not in some other folder. Perhaps it has been renamed, but I cannot find it anywhere. I can reproduce this behavior on every photo we've been editing today. We've lost about a dozen just trying to figure out what's going on. (We have backups on the SD card the scanner uses.) Yesterday was a different matter. Oddly, it all worked perfectly yesterday. We haven't changed our process. Any ideas? Update 1 It's not just Windows Live Photo Gallery. Even Windows Explorer does it. Right-click on the image file, change any of the details (subject, tags, date, etc.), click OK and the file disappears. Update 2 Solved, but it's not pretty. You may be asking: what changed between yesterday and today. Answer: McAfee updated its virus definitions. We disabled real-time protection and everything returned to normal. Re-enable real-time protection and files start disappearing. Nice. Another oddity: we went to empty the recycle bin. It said "are you sure you want to delete these 53 items?" (It contained images that we had trashed manually.) But the progress bar indicated it was actually deleting over 3,200 files. Hopefully McAfee hasn't randomly and silently deleted a bunch of other files. 

I enabled the US-International keyboard so I could type French accents. It works fine in Firefox. However it doesn't work whatsoever with anything else so far as I can tell. Not even MS Word or Notepad. What's up? 

Spotify recently made some changes I disagreed with (doubling cost), and so I no longer have their premium service. This means they play ads after every couple songs. These ads are often very obnoxious to listen to. But when you hit mute or turn the computer's volume down past a certain level, Spotify auto-pauses. You can't mute the ad. Which infuriates me, it feels like some dystopian force-feeding method. Imagine if you couldn't turn your tv off during commercials, or mute it, or it just paused and wouldn't continue? This happens on both my Windows laptop and my Macbook. I imagine if I had a separate speaker/headset hookup with its own volume dial, that would do it, but that's a poor solution. How can I adjust the system volume in such a way that Spotify or other applications are not notified about the adjustment? Or, how can I deauthorize Spotify from receiving such notifications? 

So I'm sick of being asked to confirm mic access-- the answer from me is always YES. Yes I am aware of the privacy risk this poses. So I'm in my Chrome User Data folder, in the Preferences file, and I see a list of sites that looks like this: 

According to instructions I've followed, I'm supposed to add as a parameter to this at the end, and run it. But this produces no apparent change, nothing is different. What is that parameter? Is it supposed to be the name of the partition, in my case? What is and where can I find more information about the parameters it takes? Additionally, there was this in the instructions: 

And I'm guessing this media-stream bit might pertain to this. I'm trying to add one that's some variant of "*" to match every site but of course that's not working. Is this a viable approach and I'm just not quite there, or is there another way to do it, or is this impossible? 

What I mean is that when it's running, even if I'm not on the web or doing anything and have no programs running, it's CONSTANTLY blocking requests from countless institutions and organizations I've never even heard of. I don't really understand what these are, where they're coming from, or what their purpose is. What information are they trying to get by attempting to reach my computer? What are these requests? 

I have multiple keyboard layouts set up for my computer so that I can type with the standard layout or with the international keyboard with support for additional characters and accent markers. However, 95% of the time I wish to use the standard layout. But Windows keeps putting it international mode anytime I open a new program, and I have to switch back. Why is this happening and how can I change it? I don't see anything in the settings that seems like it might control this behavior. 

Okay, so I'm semi-new to networking and to back-end web development, and am learning Flask presently. I just turned on a basic little HTTP server on my laptop ("Hello World!") and am running it on port 5000. If I go to 127.0.0.1:5000 in my browser, I see the message correctly. And if (on another computer in the house) I go to 192.168.1.40:5000, the private IP of the computer being used for the server, then I can see it from there, too. But what if I want a friend to be able to access it from outside the local network, from far away? How do they find it? I asked google what my IP (IPv4) was and tried using that, but as I expected it didn't work, since (as I understand it) that just resolves to the router itself, not necessarily the particular computer running the server. What am I doing wrong here? 

Launch X11 (in the Utilities folder). This will automatically open up an xterm, the X equivalent to Terminal. Use ssh to open a connection to the VPS machine. The option will tell it to forward X data packets to your local machine. The optional will tell it to compress data packets which may or may not work out to your benefit. You will now be looking at the shell prompt on the remote machine. Launch whatever app you need, such as . The display will appear on your own machine. 

This will use far less RAM since you won't have to be running a full desktop environment on the VPS machine. Here's how I do it on my Mac: 

This will set up to listen to port 1234 and copy anything sent to that port to the file. Then, on the sending machine: 

Can anyone identify the markup language being used here? I have both these original files and the published book. It wouldn't be very difficult for me to figure out what the codes mean. But if the format could be identified, some kind of automatic translator into something more recent (RTF, XML, etc.) might be available. Edit It's like a mystery to be solved! Here's how a table is begun: 

I am preserving a manuscript written by my father. The data files are on 5.25" floppy. I have successfully read the files off the disks, but neither of us knows what format the markup language is. It is one used by book publishers back in the early 1990s. Here are a few lines from one of the files. 

You can pipe into ssh and run a remote command. In this case, the remote command is which will copy stdin into the file. 

It's easy and straightforward, as long as you can use ssh to connect to the remote end. You can also use (NetCat) to transfer the data. On the receiving machine (e.g., host.example.com): 

I did some Googling around for terms like and . The latter turned up a PDF document that seems to have a "typo" in it, but the typo is a tag almost exactly like the one from my files. $URL$ (search for ) It would appear this research paper was laid out using the same software. I brought it into Acrobat and the properties say it was generated by Xyvision Parlance Publisher (XPP). Here's the best I've found about them so far: $URL$ Edit 2 OK, I see now. XPP is an SGML-like markup language. In fact, XPP sales literature advertises how "easy" it is to take an existing SGML document and add their proprietary tags. Unfortunately, XPP was sold to General Dynamics some years ago. Automatically translating the document into, say, HTML is difficult without the DTD. However, as others have pointed out, most of the tags are easy to figure out. Some of them, such as the bibliographic references and the values after the semicolon in tags such as and still elude me. I'll have to compare the file to the physical hard copy side-by-side to decode it all. 

This happens to me all the time: I type a long command line and forget to specify some options. For example: 

The Wikipedia article about the Computer Modern typeface has a bunch of links to Type 1 and OpenType formats. You probably don't need to install all the variations. Just the 12-point size should work for most applications. The smaller sizes are hinted to make them more legible, but you probably won't need those. Most of the links on the Wikipedia page point to the CTAN archives, so you may have to dig around through some directories to get to the TTF and OTF font files. Edit: A friend of mine once pointed out that New Century Schoolbook set at about 110% of its normal width bears a resemblance to Computer Modern.