You could try GraphicsMagick which is a derivative of ImageMagick and claims to have many improvements, including performance. I have not tried it myself. 

Edit: I was thinking of nested statements when I wrote this. can be nested but it also supports multiple inputs, so the following is perfectly acceptable: 

ImageMagick supports PSD layers and can extract them to separate image files. But I like Joe Internet's answer if you only have to do this once or twice. 

The spacing will be equal on all four sides of the terminal (not just at the bottom as you probably prefer) but it may be similar to what you are looking for. If you're familiar with Cygwin then you can use a Cygwin shell (instead of Windows' Command Prompt) by using the puttycyg patch. Here's a screendump showing puttycyg running a bash shell with a 60 pixel border. 

I regularly copy and paste queries between Excel and SQL Server Studio and I don't encounter the problems you describe. As long as the database is identified in the connection string in Excel then you shouldn't need to put the database name in front of every table or column name. Alternatively, you can specify the database name at the beginning of the query: 

Lua has the os.rename() function to actually do the file renaming or you could probably dump the text output of the script into a renaming utility. 

I also prefer this style of backup over Windows-based backup services but find it is generally only suitable for backup of documents files - not system files. There are many files (registry, mailboxes, etc.) which can be written to by Windows while you are copying them which means your copy may be out of sync or corrupted. I do some pre-checks in the Cygwin bash script to make sure certain processes (such as e-mail programs) are not running before proceeding with the rsync. Also, if you have physical access to the remote server, you can save a lot of time and bandwidth on the first sync by using an external HDD to copy the contents across from source to destination. I haven't used rsnapshot but this method works fine with rsync. 

It's possible the data has been imported as text, rather than numerical values. Most Excel functions will treat text that looks like a number as a number, therefore skipping the problem, but it does appear to trip up the Auto Calculations. To see if this is the problem, select some of the cells and apply a number format (CtrlShift1 is an easy shortcut for 0.00). If the cells remain unchanged, then they are text, rather than numbers. To fix the problem, you might be able to change the TOAD/Oracle export settings or you can convert the text to numbers using the function or paste the cells into a text editor and then back into Excel. 

I usually use them to separate categories of tasks - all too often I find myself with an IM window open overtop of work, or e-mail popping up while I'm working on an assignment. I generally have all of my 'distractions' in one desktop and work in the other - that way I can switch between the two easily but not be interrupted when I need to focus. 

If you're worried about RSI, a trackball is definitely the way to go. They're a little difficult to get used to, but you'll notice a difference really quickly. 

Yes - you can use Partition Magic or the like to do this. Defragmenting your drive first should give you a bit more space at the end of the drive to work with. 

There's an extension called Leak Monitor that monitors add-ons for a certain type of memory leak...not exactly what you're looking for, but it's a start! 

What you're looking for is the Avant Window Navigator (awn) - the link has instructions for gutsy, but they should apply equally to new distributions as well! 

There's an app available here that will let you turn off the lcd on your notebook, but it 'wakes up' when you press a key or move the mouse. Likewise with this app. Perhaps one of those could be adapted to suit your needs, though? 

I've used SUPER and had good results, but some people are leery that it might be a bit suspicious (so, be careful and make you're you're only downloading from the developer's site). It's basically a front-end to the ffmpeg library, which can do anything and everything video-related. 

See the question - if I want to build the latest version of an app from the source, am I doomed to checking for updates manually? Is there a better way to do this? 

Usually, the derived work is just the piece (image) itself. If you're using other content from the page as well, then it would apply to the entire page. If your site is based around the image, you might have more trouble than if the image is just there to complement your existing content. Of course, it would be best to consult a lawyer. 

I usually go for the queue-up-then-minimize approach, but out of the box I don't believe there's any other way to do it. 

Probably the easiest option would be to have it publish a snapshot every x minutes or hours to a website, which you could then control with some sort of password-based authentication. Accessing the camera directly will be much more difficult and probably not worth the hassle if all you need to do is check your mail. 

You'll probably have the best luck writing a script to do it yourself in the browser - I don't believe there's an option you can set within the system to specify this. 

You can't combine complex arithmetic and matrix arithmetic in Excel because the complex functions return results in text format whereas the matrix functions require numeric input. Mathematica (a commercial application) and Wolfram Alpha (online engine from the makers of Mathematica) handles complex matrix arithmetic. Try putting 

That's because 100% in Excel is actually 1.0, not 100.0 In most cases here you are telling REPT to repeat something less than once, so it prints nothing. Instead of dividing by 2 you should be multiplying by (100 / inc) where inc is the percentage points you want per repeated text. 

A hard link is a file system feature that cannot cross a file system boundary. You can't hard link files on C: to D: because they are separate file systems. They might each contain the same type of file sytem (eg. NTFS) but they are separate file systems. 

(Note: Instructions and screenshot from Excel 2013 but should apply to Excel 2010) Let's assume the cell with your formula is C4 and the "two other cells" are C5 and C6. 

If you have the Zip code in cell A1 you can use the formula to format the Zip code as 5 digits wide with leading zeros and then merge that instead of the numeric version. 

You can and then select PNG-8 format, turn dither to 0% and reduce the number of colours down to just a few. I got reasonable results with your sample image by reducing the number of colours to 6. 

Programmatic methods will vary between browsers and operating systems but browsing history is often stored in an SQLite database. For example, Chrome on Windows 7 stores its history in: 

Low quality / High compression JPEG saved as PNG - 8x8 pixel blocks are clearly visible But if the JPEG compression was low (high quality) then these blocks may be difficult to see... 

You could invoke the application within a BAT or CMD script and follow it with the command which will wait for a keypress before exiting. 

Do an on some file you know exists on the last mapped drive that you don't want mapped, loop (with a few seconds pause) until it does exist, then do the rest of your script. Edit: works fine with just a root folder so you can see if a drive letter is mounted without having to worry about a particular file being on that drive. (Less contingent) I like the @bubu's use of to introduce the delay but @nhinkle's suggestion to install is cleaner. Based on @bubu's code: 

Use a Pivot Chart and add month/year grouping on the Date field and your summarization choice (sum, average, count, etc.) on the Value field. 

What you're referring to as a tank is really a ZFS pool and your datasets are ZFS filesystems within the pool. ZFS deduplication has pool-wide scope and you can't see the dedup ratio for individual filesystems. If you turn dedup on for a pool that already contains data, the existing data will not be automatically deduped and your ratio will still be 1.00x. Only newly written data will be deduped and then you may see the ratio increase. 

It sounds like this is probably an accessibility 'feature', but I can't find anything specific about what you're experiencing on the page (here). I think you'll want to look along those lines, though. 

Like Stefan mentioned, this is most likely a problem with each individual messaging application. Try installing a multi-protocol client like Pidgin and see if you have success with that - otherwise, take a look at the password storing options on each other app. 

PDF Split and Merge is a tool I've had great success with, and it comes in GUI and command-line flavours. If the command-line version is anything like the GUI, you should have no problem scripting a solution. 

Most drives will not let you do this - but you should be able to use a program like VLC to get around the regions in software. 

Take a look at the Google documentation here for tips on setting up folders to handle deletion properly. The default behaviour for Outlook does what you want, though the iPhone will require different actions to do what you want (which are also outlined in the link). 

Honestly, I'd use GIMP with layers, and just export to .jpg if I needed a flat image. This would give you the history as well as more control editing, and isn't that much more work to maintain. 

Following these recommendations is a good start, though it really depends on your setup and what you want to do with the system every day. Disabling things like network discovery and any sort of software your printer might've come with is a good start as well, though if those are applications you use frequently, YMMV. 

Try the steps in this link, but choose Thunderbird as the program instead of GMail. If that doesn't work, can you click on regular mailto: links? I believe the issue is with the handling of mailto: - Windows doesn't know that there's a program able to handle it. 

No advertising and a ten-fold improvement in application startup time are my reasons. The plugins and themes with Pidgin are attractive, as well. 

I just keep a headphone jack adapter plugged in when I'm in public places, so the volume is effectively muted and there's no disturbance. 

Screen brightness is the #1 thing I change. After that, any network service that's constantly polling for a connection is big - Bluetooth is a huge power hog (at least on my cell and notebook). 

If you can copy all of the data into one sheet, you can use the 'remove duplicates' (under Data) to find unique addresses. If you colour-code the entries from each file first, you'll be able to tell which came from where, and which ones are left over. Edit: If you used background colours to code the entries, you can use this function to count the entries. If you coloured the font, you can use this function, taking care to replace 'Interior' with 'Font' as noted in the explanation at the top. 

Windows 7 has the Snap feature which can be done with keyboard or mouse. Keyboard shortcuts: Snap left: Windows + Left arrow Snap right: Windows + Right arrow Full screen: Windows + Up arrow 

This is an Excel solution but my understanding is that Calc supports most Excel functions. If your number always appears at the beginning of a text string and is followed by at least one space, then: 

Set up a free 2GB Dropbox account for them as a backup solution and for sharing photos and other files with family and friends. 

I don't think this is possible when your pivot source is in the same workbook. For external data sources you can set to refresh every x minutes. 

You should be able to use TrueCrypt to create an NTFS encrypted disk within a file on your FAT32 file system, subject to size limitations on the container file. 

When entering a new formula, press F4 immediately after a cell reference to toggle between, for example, $A$1, A$1 and $A1 and A1. When editing an existing formula, press F4 when your cursor is at the start, end or inside a cell reference. 

At the bare minimum, you need to extract the files from the .iso file first. There are plenty of questions and answers about this on this site. Just use the search bar or tags or look at the related questions which appear next to your own question :) 

If you have any cells in your column that did not parse to proper Excel times, then this will prevent the Group By function in a pivot table from working correctly. Make sure you are entering your dates according to your locale settings, otherwise they will not parse as dates. eg. I type in (US date standard) in to my Excel installation (Australian locale) and it stays at text instead of parsing to a proper date. 

Microsoft's Autoruns utility will show you all the ways various programs are being started and allow you to disable them. 

You could give each VM a direct disk partition instead of a virtual disk file on the host OS. Seems to me that one less abstraction layer on the file system can't hurt performance. I know VMware Workstation supports this, not sure about VirtualBox. 

To answer your title question, yes. To retain them when migrating them to another file system I expect you would need to copy the alternate data streams to seperate, regular files before copying them. Depending on the destination file system you may be able to 'reattach' them in some way but you'd most likely lose their usefulness and you'd have the same sort of headaches if you moved them back to NTFS later. 

This will return if the value in appears in or if it doesn't. To enter an array formula, enter it without the braces () and press CtrlEnter instead of Enter.