I have Visual Studio 2010 installed on Windows 7 on one hard disk and Visual Studio 2012 installed on Windows 7 on another hard disk in the same computer. When I start up my system, I want the boot display options to be always visible, i.e. which allows me to select the hard drive from which to boot the Operating System. Right now, I have to be alert for pressing F10 at the right point of time, and if I miss, I have to restart again. Is there any way I can force the Boot Display Options to show up always at start up? Please advise? 

If I enable both of these, then this works fine on 2 of 3 systems I work, but on the third one, when I go to the , it shows only 2 computers which are: a. One is it itself. b. The VBOXSVR Which shows that, it is getting this using the network adapter which is why it shows only 2, because this is the behaviour of NAT adapter in Virtualbox. Now, I need to access all three computers on this system, same like all three are accessible on other two computers. How can I specify on this operating system that it should use adapter for browsing internet and for browsing the computers available on network when I goto the by clicking on Network on the left pane in Windows Explorer? 

It connects to wireless network named 'A' After 2 seconds, it disconnects from 'A' After another 2 seconds, it connects to network named 'B' Then it again disconnects from 'B' And then it starts from point 1 again.. 

Is there a way to prime Outlook's local address cache with names/email addresses from the local address book? It's a real hassle when, for example, you move a user from another email client to Outlook and they have to either type in or look up the recipient's name the first time they email that person. It's so time consuming. Update: Is the process different for Exchange mailboxes vs. IMAP? 

I'm looking for a program to spider a web site* and download the content to disk. I've got the following requirements though which appear to trip up the programs I've tried: 

Under the above conditions, I clocked under 2 hours of battery life across 3 tests (1:49, 1:52, 1:47). If I actually use the computer, we're looking at 1:30. Something is not right... 

Realizing that the unattended/silent install worked (since that's what the System Update utility does), I ran the driver install in unattended mode rather than the default interactive mode: setup.exe -install I rebooted when it completed and it worked! 

I want an Autohotkey script which launches a new instance of Chrome and brings that new window to the forefront (active window). My script is: 

I'm running Outlook 2010 against Exchange 2010. There are some messages that Outlook identifies as junk (or perhaps it's Exchange identifying them as junk, because I know that with Exchange 2010 and Outlook, if Exchange identifies the message as spam it will cause the message to be placed in my "Junk E-Mail" folder - in other words, it may not be Outlook making the decision) and appropriately places in the Junk E-Mail folder. I would like to create rules to act on those messages before they hit the junk folder. By default, the junk designation seems to take precedent. I then tried classifying the messages as "Not Junk" when they were in the Junk E-Mail folder, but it appears that all that happens is the email address is whitelisted (yet the messages were classified as junk by some different heuristic). How can I do this? 

I have a laptop where even the BIOS is locked by the administrator and requires password to make changes. But I can select the device to boot from at the boot time. I have cloned a Windows 7 Operating System to an External USB Hard Disk which is different from the Windows in the target laptop. Now, If I use this External Hard Disk as a boot device with the target laptop and run the OS in Ext Hard Disk, will it do any harm to the OS that is currently inside the Internal Hard Disk? Will I be able to run the Internal Hard Disk OS afterwards? Or is there any danger of becoming it unusable? 

I have NETGEAR JWNR2010v3 Router and I have configured it to static IP provided by the ISP. I have configured the preferred and alternate DNS servers provided by the ISP into the router. When I connect my computer to the router, the IP Address it gets for "Preferred DNS server" and "Alternate DNS server" is the router's own IP Address i.e. 192.168.1.1 rather the ones that I have configured into the router. This causes problems, that when I connect the internet works, but after a few hours of idle, when I try to browse, I have to restart the router or apply the settings again and reconnect. I can enter those IP Address values for preferred and alternate dns servers manually on the computer, but that is not the way, every computer I connect, I will have to do that. Is there any solution for this? 

In order to select images in Microsoft Word documents you need to get the cursor just right so that it turns into the "+" arrow icon, at which point you can click to select the image. When your cursor is not in exactly the right spot you see something like this (note that the letter "m" shown in the picture is an image, not a font): 

There's a tool called ReliefJet Essentials which does this. The feature is called "Disable or Enable Warnings" and is at $URL$ 

Looking at Amazon reviews for OCZ Agility and Vertex SSD drives, I often see an equal number of great reviews and lousy reviews. People either seem to love them and have no issues or have tons of problems. Reviews for Corsair and Sandisk drives generally seem good to great. What's the story with OCZ? 

I'm using Outlook 2007 with IMAP. I've configured sent messages to be put in the server-based "Sent" folder of my IMAP account. When I send emails, the email will briefly appear in the Sent messages folder and then disappear. They might appear for just a few seconds up to an hour or so. By "disappear" I mean that the messages are no longer in the list, and doing a search across all folders (I created a Search Folder to search for all messages) the message does not come up at all. I had a number of rules but I disabled them all and the problem still occurs. In addition I disabled AutoArchiving and ensured that there were no filters on the Sent folder. 

I have purchased 19" Dell Square Monitor (E1690S) with 1280x1024 resolution, so that I can easily look at the Source Code at a glance in Visual Studio and read other things well. But, I am wondering, that looking at a bigger screen will put more light on the eyes than the smaller screen and put more strain. Is it correct that a 19" Screen will put more strain on eyes rather than the 15" Laptop Screen in following cases: 

I want to make my laptop boot faster and thinking of purchasing an SSD Drive. I have Dell Latitude E5420 model. Will it be able to take an additional SSD Drive into it? 

The Resource Manager that pops out from Task Manager in Windows Operating Systems shows CPU consumption on the CPU tab for each of the different CPUs. I get 4 CPUs on my tab. Are they all physical processors or logical processors? 

Is there any way to have a simple icon overlay touching which can toggle between applications on iPad Pro? I am tired swiping four fingers and it causes some irritation on my fingers to swipe on the screen. 

I have a Microsoft Word 2013 document in which I have inserted another Microsoft Word 2013 document by using the below process: Insert -> Object -> Create From File -> Display As Icon I created the file from another Microsoft Word 2013 document, so it is now embedded inside the original Word Document and displayed as a Word Icon. But, when I double click it, it does not open the document, rather the icon is covered over with black lines. This is working for the embedded PDF File, and it opening on double click in Acrobat Reader, but why the Microsoft Word file is not opening? 

So far though I'm unable to find a spider that can handle #1 and #2. * The site is a bill payment service and it has my bill history. I'm looking to stop using the service but I want to keep the history. 

The Send Page by Email Firefox extension seems to only send X bytes of a web page. Or some portion. UPDATE: I was incorrect. The limitation is that sendemail.exe (which the extension uses to send the email has a 16k limit on the body text passed in.) Where I don't have Firefox, I can only send the link, so no full text search at all in those cases. 

What are others seeing? Update: For W500 owners w/ the 9 cell battery, what value do you see for "Full charge capacity" when on the Battery tab of the Power Manager utility? I see 81.87 Wh. 

I want to create new Chrome windows (no tabs) from outside of Chrome, e.g. by running Chrome.exe multiple times. How can I do this so as to get a single Chrome window? The default result is to create new tabs in the existing window which requires me to drag and drop the tag to create a new window. 

Instapaper looks interesting because it does page clean-up, but it's not clear to me that it actually stores the page content or is full text searchable. In addition, they state in their FAQ that their storage isn't mean to be long term. Thoughts on addressing the gaps and improving this process further? 

When I search in the in , I don't have the 'A' and 'B' listed there, so I am unable to remove them. Please help. 

I have two Network Adapters on Windows 7 64 bit operating system which is installed on Oracle Virtual Box. I created those two adapters as follows: 

I take a snapshot of my desktop by pressing PrintScreen button on keyboard. Then I want to make a new image file of it when I press Ctrl V in any of my folder rather than first copying it on a image editing program (like mspaint). Is there any way out for this? As I do this many times, I need some fast way for it. Please suggest.. 

I have several virtual machines on virtual box with windows 7 installed and one has windows server 2012 which is acting as domain controller and DNS. When I turn that Windows Server off which was listed as a DNS server for each of the other virtual machines, I am still able to access other systems by their host name. I want to know how this resolution works in the absence of a DNS server? 

I use WiFi hotspot from my Android Phone for getting internet connection on Windows 7. It works without any problem at home, but at office, it connects and keeps on disconnecting randomly in interval of 30 seconds - 5 minutes. Why is this happening only at office and not at home? Is there any solution for this? 

When taking notes with a stylus on a capacitive touch device like the ipad or android tablets how do you prevent your hand from causing multi-touch problems? When you write, both the stylus and your hand are touching the screen. Does the presence of your hand screw up your touch entry just as accidentally placing a second finger on the screen at the wrong time would? 

The process is almost perfect. I've got the central access and ubiquitous access of Gmail as the storage mechanism, full text searchability (due to Gmail, but of course only for the URLs I send from that Firefox extension), a cleaned up page due to Readability, ability to read offline (assuming I use an IMAP client against Gmail) and permanent archiving of content, including what's been read vs. unread. The missing pieces are: 

I want to remove the folder, so I read How to Remove RSS Support from Outlook and discovered the MFCMapi gem of a utility. I followed the instructions in the section "Delete the RSS folder using MFCMAPI" section, and was able to remove the folder from Outlook. However, the "RSS Feeds" folder now shows in the "Deleted Items" folder in Outlook Web Access (OWA) and also on my mobile devices, but not in Outlook. In OWA I attempted a right-click and delete, but I am told that folder cannot be deleted. I poked around my OST file (I am running in cached exchange mode) using again using MFCMapi to see if I could find the folder but I do not see it. Finally I created a new Outlook profile in which I do not cache messages, so I could get a "live" look at the server and attempt to see the folder and delete it that way, but it still did not show. Any ideas?