A traceroute will show you how many layer3 hops you are getting to from A to B. However you could be going through hundreds of switches inbetween. You could also be going through 10 ISP routers running a layer 2 vpn which appears as a single hop. An MPLS network could hide its internals, or show its internals to you. You could have transparent firewalls in the path as well. Either way your Professor is correct in saying that your cannot guarantee that every single device in the path will count as a hop to you. Because of the above points I mentioned, you could be going through 50 devices but it could look like three to you. It doesn't happen all the time though. If you see 15 hops it very well could be 15 hops. This is a basic example of an MPLS set up in regards to TTL: $URL$ 

The main current issue with the Brocade line is that you can only enable one at a time, per chassis. i.e. If you want to run VRRP-E, you'll never be able to run VRRP with another vendor on another port. They are not compatible in any way. VRRP-E is proprietary. 

I configure all my core OSPF interfaces as p2p. I would do the same for integrated IS-IS. This stops the DR/DIS election process from happening which can take a fair amount of time in a re-convergence scenario. You do not HAVE to have them running as /31. It could be any mask as long as you only have two active speakers. An added advantage on the OSPF side is that you get no type2 generated for the link. From Cisco's site as well in regards to integrated IS-IS ($URL$ 

You're configuring it wrong. In order to get policing working on these switches you need to configure the following (I've taken this from a working switch of mine) 

There is no tunneling. This is completely normal. With IP routing you are concerned about the source and destination address which doesn't change unless something is NAT'd. If a router in the middle has an RFC1918 address that's fine as it can still forward transit traffic as again the source and destination is unchanged. Each router will simply reply to the source with their own directly connected interface address. The 10.14.0.1 above is not being routed over the internet, it's simply the device that is attached to the CPE on the WAN side. There is no magic technology being used. It's pure standard routing. 

The provider should have a filter inbound to ensure these communities are only accepted from customers. If not, then that's the providers issue. Some Tier1 providers do accept these sorts of communities from anywhere though. This is based on RFC 1998: $URL$ 

That will fail. MTU is setting the L2 MTU while IP MTU is setting the L3 MTU. The CLNS MTU determines both the maximum size of LSP plus the hello size when padding. If you tried to send a 2000 byte LSP over a 1500 MTU L2 link, it will get dropped 

No. A interface description is just a label. The only way to find out what's REALLY plugged in is to show the MAC addresses as you noted. For networking equipment, if you turned on LLDP or CDP it would make it easier to determine what networking equipment is connected to each others. But for hosts you need to use the MAC address table 

Unfortunately EX switches cannot terminate double-tagged vlans. You would need a bigger box like the MX or M series with IQ/IQ2 module if sticking with Juniper. The best you could do with the EX is strip off the outer-tag and push those inner frames to another EX. 

Even in real hardware, the HWIC-4ESW and 16ESW modules do NOT support LACP/PAgP In order to play with these sorts of tech you'll need a regular Cisco switch that support it or another vendor of course 

If you have proper security policies in place, there is no need to separate these two devices out. If you have a properly spec'd firewall, then performance is not a reason to separate them out either. It's good of the vendor to tell you to split these two out as they end up selling you two firewalls instead of a single device. 

Under the parent policy you have to 'set' something in order for it to work. This could be anything so in this example I'm simply setting the dscp to 0 

A tunnel give you a route-based VPN option. This allows you to run routing protocols over your tunnels which allows for better failover capabilities. You can also set up a single tunnel, then route many different prefixes over that same single tunnel. If the other side adds a new prefix, just add another static route to the existing tunnel. I also find it easier to do network-wide NAT for overlapping VPN subnets as the tunnel interface is just another layer3 point-to-point interface Tunnels are also handy for times when you need to run two different VRFs over an interface that doesn't support many subinterfaces. A DSL link is an example. In this case you can run a tunnel over the normal link, and have that tunnel in a different VRF 

I too do not have that SUP available, but can easily do this on a Brocade Netiron. Simply put two ports in a VPLS and tag them with different vlans. Like so: 

On frame-relay point-to-point interfaces, your OSPF priority is set to zero automatically. Also you have no DR election on a p2p links 

If using Cisco at the edge, then PfR would indeed be the best option here for the reasons you specified. You can set up master controller redundancy and Cisco shows how on this link: $URL$ 

The above all match in the first four bits, and so that becomes the boundary. The amount of bits also tells you the slash you're going to use. You then use the 'all zeros' address as the subnet. In the above example, they all match up to the 4th bit in the second octect. Each octect is 8 bits and so the new bit boundry becomes 8 + 4 = 12. so our end result of the above is: 10.32.0.0/12 

Int vlanX is simply the Cisco way of creating a layer3 interface on a switch. for Brocade Netirons you use interface ve while Junos uses vlan.x When you bridge on a Cisco router you create a layer3 interface on a BVI interface. On Junos you can create an IRB interface. At the end of the day it's simply a name. It's a routed interface that all the other ports on the same vlan/brocadcast domain is connected to. 

Dynamic protocols only really make sense if your sites have more than one exit point, or you have many routes per site that can't be nicely aggregated into a single static route. I would stick with OSPF, simply to be able to use other vendors. I know EIGRP has been 'released' but its going to be years until you see other vendors using it and you dont want to be locked into a single vendor 

1.) Yes, the gateways should reside on the L3 switch. If you were running Routing on a Stick, you would instead house their gateways on the Router. Your current configuration is inline with what is called a "collapsed core" design. Where the L3 core performs both switching and VLAN routing and acts as a distribution layer. 2.) No, your L3 routing should be occuring on your 3750. 3.)If the cable modem is in bridge mode, there should be no double NAT. Bridge mode should disable all the routing features and leave the cable modem as just a cable modem. 4.) I would, just so you can hit devices on the seperate VLANs. 5.) The address of the inside interface of the Cable modem may be .1. Leave it as it is. Like Ron said, it doesn't need to be changed. Can we see the NAT configuration of your router? It will be helpful in identifying your NAT issue. ****EDIT**** This link may be helpful: Configuring NAT I failed to take note of the NAT statement you had originally. This brings into question the claims made by your ISP. You're both able to hit the internet and your being PAT'd with the correct commands. Are you experiencing any problems? 

Default BGP keepalives are sent every 60 seconds. If a participating device does not receive a return response within 180 seconds, the default Hold Time, a reconvergence will occur. So by default, it will take 3 minutes for your devices to determine a neighbor is down before reconvergence. 

The above is actually the correct config. You are looking for 80mbs, 16mb, 2mb and 2mb Best Effort. 80% of the remaining 20mbs is 16mbs. This leaves 4mbs remainder available for priority 2 and Best effort. 

A Ethernet Repeater extends the usable range of ethernet cabling so it is not the same as a hub. This is a layer 1 device. You might be getting confused with the name "Repeater" and the function of a hub. Or you could be referring to Multiport Repeater which is just another name for a Hub function. A Hub is also a layer 1 device. It repeats data out from a source port out every other port. Collision is heavy on a hub. Bridges are layer 2 devices. They exist to physically seperate LAN segments. One of the only decisions a bridge makes is whether to forward or drop a frame. They are different than a switch as a switch can separate LAN segments on the same hardware using VLANs.Switches generally consist of a multitude of ports, while a bridge may only have one. 

Each interface on your NIC should be assigned a different IP address or there will be an addressing conflict. You can either receive an IP address via DHCP or set one manually as you see through your GUI. Each interface also has its own MAC address for layer 2 communication. 

I have an interface that is Gigabit connecting to an interface on a carrier ATT router. The bandwidth of the ethernet circuit connecting to this interface is 10mbs. Is there a way to set the speed of the interface to match the bandwidth of the circuit? If QoS is then applied to my gigabit interface, will it be applied and aware of the 10mb rate limit? 

The core1 is able to reach R1 and R2 connected interface and loopback0 interfaces. The problem is that R1 cannot reach R2's loopback and vice versa. Each device is able to hit each others physical interfaces. 

My internal private IP addressing and another person's internal IP addressing may be the same or similar, yes. On a NAT router or Firewall, you have an inside interface and an outside interface. Using an ACL, or depending on your manufacturer's OS, you determine what internal traffic source is NAT'd to an external address when it crosses the Firewall or NAT router. Out on the internet your public addresses are bought and assigned; there are no overlaps in Public address space. Overlaps in Public address space would cause serious problems. 

Any ideas on how to troubleshoot? The issue is widespread on almost all interfaces that house servers in the company. 

The above is the preferred configuration for VoiP phones connected to a client computer. Trunking was apparently the configuration used for older VoIP equipment. When configured as an access port, you can apply QOS to the vlan, prevent loops with STP, and lock down the PC/VOiP phone with port security. FYI, for PC/VoiP phones, you'll need to enable to allow for 2 macs on the access port. This link specifically shows the access port configuration. As for the difference between Trunks and Access ports, a trunk does add dot1q or ISL tags directly to frames and can exist on all or multiple vlans. While an access port only passes traffic from a set vlan but does not modify the frame with a vlan tag. 

Your IP config will only show private addresses and mac address, your attacker would need to know your public address to gain access to your services. So no, there isn't harm in posting these results. 

I'm having trouble finding the actual temperature point where a C2821 router will send out the trap for temperature. So far, I know the operating temperatures are from 0C to 40C. But at which point does it send the trap? 

I have 4 VWIC2-2MFT-T1/E1 installed on a C2921 router running Version 15.3(3)M2, everytime I enter the framing esf and linecode b8zs, the router accepts the commands but the controller remains with the following configs: 

Trunk ports pass all vlan data unless otherwise specified within the Switchport Mode Trunk command. So at this point, the switchport access command does nothing. If the user who configured this switch had the intention of limiting the data that passed through this trunk to only 1 vlan, he or she should have used Switchport Trunk Allowed Vlan 100 

When a power outage occurs, any unsaved configurations will be dropped by your devices. In this case, your port configuration reverted to an older version. 

Issuing the command does not put the interface in a shutdown state. However, I believe your coworker is telling you that your telnet session will be dropped if you issue this command which is correct. Because you would no longer have a management address, you would also no longer have a session using the address set. If you have to issue the command, do so from a console connection to avoid losing your session. 

I have a layer 3 3750 advertising its vlan interfaces via EIGRP to two routers. R1 and R2 connect to MPLS via 2 different carriers using BGP. R1 is the preferred path. My question is, how do I configure a default route for Core1 using EIGRP that will be aware of failures on either of these carriers. 

Routers operate on the Internet layer of the TCP-IP model. The Internet layer is synonymous with the Network layer of the OSI model. 

sho ip int brief will give you a list of all the interfaces and their status as well as protocol. It will not show you if a cable is "unplugged" but will tell you if something is plugged into the interface and sending frames. sho int Will allow you to see if an interface is UP and whether or not protocol is also UP. If you are just looking to monitor status changes on the terminal, term monitor