I'm trying to run the .msi from PowerShell (not sure if I can do this) but it also hangs. No output. Doesn't show the next prompt. 

Someone on my shared server has messed with some setting such that (PHP) gives me the IP for his website, rather than Google. I believe this can be done via the file, but presumably, he doesn't have access to that file (unless my server administrator really screwed up). Anyway, I need to find a way to explain this to the 'techies' that run my server so that they can correct the issue and revoke such access. Is there another way someone could have messed with these settings? Something akin to a file perhaps? How do I explain the issue so it can be resolved? I don't think I have the power to fix this myself. 

I want to harvest some data like this $URL$ And insert the name, address, phone number, email, etc. into a database. Is there some software I can use that will take a webpage, let me specify some regexes or something, and then spit out all the matched data in a CSV or some format easily insertable into a DB? 

But it doesn't (a) it doesn't seem to be increasing the time between retry attempts, and (b) I don't want to set a "max" amount of time to wait, but a minimum. 

I've never used before, but as I understand it, I can use it to create panes and run programs side-by-side. Here's what I've got: 

This seems to set the amount of time before giving up. So how do I say "wait 10 minutes before trying again if the connection times out"? 

The I believe checks if stdout is open. Not sure why that's important, I copied it from this article. 

Where I live, we have a neat little store called NCIX. You can order from them online, but they have a bunch of shops around here too, which you can go to and pick up your stuff immediately. My advice: find a local computer hardware store and get the best of both worlds. You'll pay through the nose if you shop at Best Buy/FutureShop etc. Sidenote: I ended up buying online from newegg.com anyway because it was still a few bucks cheaper... but you have to know what you're buying and that it will be compatible. I figure the probability of the product being DOA is low enough for it to be worth it (the hassle of having to send it back if necessary). Side-sidenote: Buy an SSD. They are so worth it. 

I want to map my horizontal scroll to next/previous weapon in a game, but the game doesn't recognize horizontal scroll as a configurable key. Thus I want to map horizontal scroll to some random keyboard keys so that I can then map it to something useful inside the game. Can I do this? The "Logitech Options" software is pretty limited. The only setting that kind of works is "Foward/Back" but then I can't use those two keys for something else. 

My girlfriend's harddrive crapped out on her Macbook. I've replaced it with a new one, but I want to see if I can scavenge anything off the drive. I've plugged it into my Win7 machine...but I need some (free) software to recover the data. Win7 doesn't recognize it at all. Suggestions? 

Norton made a misdiagnoses, as usual, when it found a "virus" on a CD. Of course, the CD is read-only so Norton couldn't destroy it, which made Norton sad. Problem is, I can't get rid of the stupid warning message. Anyone know how? 

If I'm on the first tab, and I hit Ctrl+T, I want it to open next to (to the right of) the current tab. Is there an extension for this? I think I want to change the closed tab ordering too... but I can never remember how I like it until I play with it. I think move to the left tab is what I like. TabMixPlus gives me these options in FF, is there a similar extension available yet? Or some hidden options in Chrome? 

I'm trying to figure out how to set up a miniature call center for a small business. Like, for 1-4 people to take calls, but hopefully expandable to more. We want to accept nation-wide calls, and then I guess distribute the calls among the available agents. If no one is available, I guess it should either put them in a queue and play some annoying music for them, or forward to call to an agent who has least-recently taken a call who can then quickly answer and say "please hold" until they're done their call. We want to have one phone number that customers can call. I guess we then need some kind of ACD system which would take each call and forward it to an agent based on some algorithm? Then we would need to purchase a separate phone line for each agent, plus one just for the distributor? Or do we need several "extra" lines to maintain a queue (one for each customer waiting too)? This "ACD" thing, is it just a device that you would plug a phone line into (or several?), and maybe connect to a computer, aided by some software? Or is a subscription thing that I would need from my local telephone provider? Next, the business we're running, the callers will be repeat customers. It would be helpful to automatically pull up their profile based on the incoming number. The "software" our agents will be running will just be a website where they can log in (preferably from home) and then enter some information they would obtain through the call. So, the system would have to somehow interface with the website if possible. If not, we'll just have to ask each customer for an identifier (phone number, username, customer number, or something). Is this possible? I guess each computer would need a device that the call would pass through, and then if I can somehow hook into that, then I can write some software that will interface with the site. So, where do I start? What hardware do we need to buy? What subscriptions do we need? We were thinking this magicJack might help us in accepting long-distance calls for cheaper, but my understanding is that they provide you with some weird-looking number, is there a way we could "mask" it with our toll-free number? And then pass the incoming calls through the distributor system, which would then get passed to the call-accepting device which would both allow an agent to answer the call and have a software hook? (I realize this might be partially out of the scope of SU, but I wasn't sure where else to ask. It is about computer(-aided) hardware and software anyway.) P.S.: I don't need any of that "press 1 to talk to..." or "say xyz to..." junk. Just a straight-forward, connect-to-next-available-agent system. 

There's a setting in Windows 8 for this. Open your start screen and search for "Choose a default web browser". 

Just got put in charge of a big web project. All I know is the web server is running MS SQL 2005, so I need something comparable to test locally. I figure developer edition is my best bet because it offers everything that the enterprise edition does, but is for development purposes only. But this page is pretty worthless $URL$ Where do I actually download it? What about SQL 2005 Express? Would that meet my needs? I can't figure out all the differences between these stupid MS products. 

They actually look fine right after rebooting my computer, but then they get blurrier and blurrier, and then this is what they look like if I leave my computer on over night. As you can see, it's only affected 4 of my icons for some reason. They are: 

Looking for a tool that can tell me when my hard drives are expected to die. Can anyone recommend a (preferably) free one? 

My IDE writes a few kB of data every second as long as I'm editing files (auto saves and compiles very frequently). Should I be concerned about the harm it may be causing to my harddrive? 

Short story: one of my computers died (boot partition is corrupt I think), so I ripped out out the C: drive, plugged it into my other PC, and now I'm trying to get the files off before I reformat it. I've been using TerraCopy to move the files over. I started a transfer last night, but it got about 5% in. When I checked it this morning it said it was still transferring at 25 MB/s but I could see that it wasn't moving. I need a robust way to copy the remaining files, skipping already successfully copied files, that won't crap out on me part way through. There's tons and tons of little files, but the total amount of data is relatively small (25 GB). I can't do a full harddrive mirror ('sector copy' I think it's called?) because my destination SSD has some other files on it too. Suggestions? 

When you snap a Window to the left half or right half or your screen by pressing Win+[Left|Right], Win10 suggests some open apps that you can pin in the other half. This steals my keyboard focus away from the app I was trying to work in. How do I disable this "feature"? 

Windows 10 keeps notifying me of birthdays and dozens of other useless events because it's synced all my Google Calendars. How can I disable some of those calendars from syncing with Win10? It's got almost no options: 

My host OS is Windows 7 I'm running a (Django development) server on Ubuntu 10.04 in VirtualBox. I want to connect to that server (through my browser) on my Windows host. How can I do that? 

Just change the shell to or whatever you want. The check is important if you ever re-install Bash -- you won't be able to open it after a fresh install because the command will fail and then Bash just closes. If that happens, delete/rename your file here: 

I want to choose some folders scattered around my various harddrives (preferably including my network drives) and have them encrypted (AES256 or something secure) and copied to OneDrive and I don't want to keep a local copy (once it's uploaded it can be deleted locally so that I don't have two local copies). Is this possible? 

Looks like this "64.69.91.245" is somehow blocking me. Can I tell my computer to avoid/bypass that IP when trying to connect? 

Windows Hello lets you sign in with your face. I've got a webcam. Can I use this feature on my desktop? How? I don't see it under Settings / Accounts / Sign-in options. 

I've been using ActiveSmart to monitor my hard-drives health for a few weeks now, and its telling me my brand new 1.5 TB hard-drive is half-dead already. About on-par with one of my hard-drives which I know is at least half dead because I've been having some read errors and heard ticking noises. Now I haven't actually noticed any problems with my 1.5 TB drive; should I be concerned that it's going to crap out on me too? Or could ActiveSmart be giving a mis-diagnosis because I use it a lot or something (I've used up 795 GB in the 2 and a half weeks I've had it). The events that ActiveSmart has been catching is "Hardware ECC recovered". Maybe these new fangled super big hard-drives somehow rely on ECCs to squeeze out the extra space, but this isn't actually a cause for concern? 

So, my understanding is that there is only one public key; the one that is given to company.com by the trusted 3rd party (thawte/godaddy/verisign etc). The client then chooses to accept this key/certificate and then sends a password used to encrypt future communications. If there is only one public key, then can't a hacker just go that site once, get a copy of the public key, then intercept the client as he sends the password, decrypt it using the public key he already has, and then spy on all future communications? What prevents that? The part I don't understand is 

It appears to me that both extensions and plugins are add-ons. Extensions add functionality to Firefox, whereas plugins are more about letting you play additional types of media (like silverlight, flash, quicktime). 

I've got this old OneDrive folder which I've renamed in Explorer to "OneDrive-Old". However, it keeps colliding when I try to create a new folder called "OneDrive". Turns out, it's name is actually still "OneDrive" as can be seen on this "Sharing" tab. How do I fix this? How can I prevent Explorer from showing me these fake directory names ever again? 

When I run this it creates the 3 panes for me. Now how do I start programs in each of them? Specifically, I want to run in the first one, in the second, and in the third. 

I doubt if a tool like this exists, but it would be nice. So many times, I open an explorer window, and then another explorer window or a different app so that I can drag something from the explorer window into that app to open it, or to copy the file to my USB stick. Every single time one window opens on top of the other. I have TWO monitors, a lot of screen real-estate... why does Windows find it necessary to put the new window the one place I don't want it? Is there an app that can look at the last window I had active, and then when a new window opens, put it somewhere else? Like, on the opposite monitor, or at least beside the other window? 

I've recorded some music from an internet radio stream. I want to split it into separate audio tracks, preferably automatically (where ever there's a pause, or using some other clever algo). Anyone know of some software that can do this? The mp3 file is about 500 megs. There actually aren't many silences as it's sort of club remix and the songs fade into each other. The only stops are when the radio announcer says a few words... I'd like to cut those bits out and split the tracks there if possible. 

I just scanned my site with this tool and it said my site was vulnerable to CVE-2014-0224. How do I fix it? Do I need to get a new cert issued? The one I have I purchased from enom. Is it their fault? Or is it my web server's (webfaction's) fault? It also says: 

We've got about 7 Ubuntu-based machines which we want to be able to display on a TV screen at will (but only one at a given time). What's the best way to do that? We haven't bought the TV yet, if there's one that makes this easier. We want to project IDEs, websites, and other apps, so video-streaming-only devices won't work. It would be preferable to be able to stream over our wifi network (through a router) to the TV, rather than needing 7+ transmitters. Is there such a thing that can do this? 

Although it is possible that the tiny bit of space on your harddrive that stores you password spontaneously got corrupted and windows didn't recognize this (it checks for data inconsistencies) it's highly unlikely. Sounds like you have some form of malware or crapware. Restore your nightly backup from before you started noticing the problems, then you'll know for sure. If all else fails, reformat.