I wrote this for my company on installing SQL 2005 on Server 2008. They may have had an older version SP but same principal applies you just may not need the hotfix or get the compatibility warning. Microsoft SQL Server 2005: Warning: SQL Server 2005 will give you issues when installing on x64 Server 2008. This can be worked around. Please follow these steps in the right order and do not proceed to install SQL Server 2005 with errors or warnings you most likely will need to uninstall and start over. Understand that SQL server installation will post a known compatibility warning. This is fine and is not an issue. The first thing that is required is to enable IIS to run 32bit applications. Specifically ASP.NET. This is accomplished with 2 adjustments in IIS Server Manager. You must globally enable 32-bit applications. 

Was moving around some AD objects and accidentally clicked the "Do not show this warning again" For moving AD objects... I like this warning as it is a final step to confirm that I actually want to perform this operation. Anyone know how to reenable the warning? Could not find that inside any options 

Useful shelf life of a system-state backup of Active Directory Quote from the link about Tombstone Lifetime. 

This Article deals with creating certificates for exchange but the process is similar for any IIS Website. Hope that helps! 

Check out WireShark. It may fit your needs. It can filter by IP and is in real time. You can actually see each packet go through. 

Sounds like you want an FTP server. So what OS do you use? FTP you can do multiple transfers and have multiple users simultaneously. Implement SSH to secure it and you are all set. For a web based FTP client try $URL$ 

Why is DNS using the DomainDNSZone and is that acceptable considering _msdcs... is in the ForestDNSZone? If so, should I just delete the DC=1.168.192.in-addr.arpa and DC=supernova.local from the ForestDNSZone? Or should I try to get those to be the ones in use? What are those steps? I understand how to delete. That is simple but if i must move zones some info would be appreaciated there. Just to confirm. from my understanding. I can delete the two duplicates in the ForestDNSZone and leave the _msdcs.supernova.local as thats required there. This will resolve the erros I see. 

I also just ran a DC Diag on Weir. THis is the 2008 R2 box It failed this test. Though Just looked into this a little more and realise its if I did not do adprep /rodcprep. Considering I am not planning on a RODC MS says this can be ignored. 

What about this? $URL$ Saw it on Slashdot the other day. You will have to configure the function yourself but this will get you started on having a low overhead OS. Maybe too much work for your solution though. 

I spoke to HP: They said to update the firmware and it will resolve the issue. I do not use ILO so I will be running it offline. The file and readme are located here. I was told if this does not fix the problem they will be sending me a new Mother Board. I really hope this fixes it! But as of now this is the official solution from HP. 

Contact JMRP see if they are blocking you again. We signed up and got blocked a second time till I contacted them. Make sure you are unsubscribing the users who complain or they will block you again. 

Yes this would be configured at the DNS level using an A record. Point the Subdomain to your Linux server's IP. 

Here is a screenshot of the situation. Drive 7 is of no concern its external did not feel the need to grab the sceenshot a second time to fit it in. 

Seems like the users group policy is not being applied. Is there an event log on the error? Are you sure you have your group policy setup on the OU that this computer is part of? @ SMOAK Seems like he is logging into the domain as his user account would not work on the local machine. Unless he has a local and domain user with the same user name and password. EDIT/ADDITION Seems like they are pulling the Group Policy from the domain not the virtual domain. Go to AD in the OU that contains the computers right click the OU then go to properties then select the "Group Policy" tab. Add your group policy there. Group policies are applied from bottom to top and override each other. 

Seems like its a permission issue from this line above.. ADDITION I have the same server. Make sure your hardware is up to date with the latest firmwares. There are some known random reboot issues. Though not the same as your issue old firmware revisions could cause issues like this. Let us know if you are up to date. 

I want to create a Domain User that runs the SQL Service Accounts. The reason for this is that I have setup mirroring and MS recommends having the same user (a domain user account) running the services across all the the computers in the configuration to ensure mirroring will work properly. Right now in the test environment I just had them run under my user for simplicity. But now that I know what I am doing I would like to test the configuration more accurately. I am also aware that it makes things much simpler if this user is an administrator. My question is. Should I just create a simple user SQLSERVICEUSER and make it an administrator? Seems a little insecure to me. Anyone have a more elegant solution? 

Then Open AD and do a search for all users who have Exchange Home Server attribute set to the dead Exchange Server. Remove Exchange mailbox association if you find any users using the old server. If you cannot see administrative or routing groups then: Right click your domain (exchange) container (THE HIGHEST LEVEL) go to properties check off the administrative views. "Display routing groups" and "Display administrative groups" Finally: Delete all the old DNS records for the old server as well as any DHCP records then simply delete the old server from AD this is assuming you were able to transfer all the Schema roles. Hope this helps. 

Just had a thought on this. Why don't you just modify the permissions to allow you to run it? Then just add it to the startup group for your user and you are all done. Alternatively I was thinking maybe setting up a shortcut to execute with the other username and password but just seems way to insecure. 

So you already have WSUS installed on the box. Therefore is an upgrade? Have you tried to stop the WSUS service prior to doing the update? 

Scalability is the main difference. The 270 can scale to 2 way while the 1212 can go to 1. the leading digit determines the scalability. That seems to me to be the main difference from what I can see. This is given if you were looking at the two models with similar clocks and cache. Made a little comparison chart for you click here if you want it in its own window :)alt text $URL$ 

You need to properly setup your DNS records on Go daddy to point to your IP. You need to set the A records. EDIT Man this should be simple. Just make sure you are pointing your domain to your IP using DNS not forwarding and it should work fine. Or call go daddy! They are great on the phone. 

Weird one. I have a domain controller with Server 2008 R2. It is a hack job but is reliable. AMD system. AM2 6000+ Asus Crosshair MB. The server is utilizing 5 Sata ports for Hard disks of assorted size. No raid is configured. This is mostly for random storage and backup DC When we attempted to upgrade 1 of the drives upon reboot we got a "No Operating System Detected Insert System disk and press ENTER" error. Fiddling around enough to find out the computer would only boot if the System disk and one of the storage disks (the one we removed to upgade...) were connected on boot. What is going on here? How do I repair this issue? I would like to be able to remove that drive. Ran BCDEDIT I see the issue. Recomendations on the command to best resolve it. We want everything on C:. 

Why would you want to use VM's they are going to take up more resources? Additionally each VM will require its own license. Use named instances. I believe you can have multiple named instances with one license. Hope that answers your licensing issues as well as your deployment scenario. Check out the licensing section of the SQL Server 2008 Licensing Frequently Asked Questions site all your CAL answers are very clearly outlined in the first few Licensing questions. 

When done for mulitple users by replacing "Kerry" with $($_.Alias) it only works for some users. Other get double or more copies of the rule, while other users do not get it at all..... Very strange. What could I be missing here? 

I am looking for recommendations to clone a Red Hat mirrored raid to a single hard drive located in the same machine. The idea is if the servers hardware ever has an issue we have a similar hardware machine ready to go. All we would have to do is pop in the cloned drive. If the servers RAID ever failed we could just switch to the single drive to maintain uptime and restore the original configuration on the spare server with a backup. This is a restaurant and they are open 7 days a week. We do have time from 12:am to 9:00am to perform the necessary steps for a clone and we talking about under 10 Gigs of information. There is a database on the server. I have looked into Rsync and Clonezilla. But I am just not confident either is capable of completing the task I want. Looking for some suggestions and possibly a step by step if you could be so kind. 

The back story is that Server 1 (the Primary DC and Global Catalog server) was originally just a WSUS and ACT (Act is like Sales Force) server. Basically a non essential system. We had a disaster and the only option was to upgrade that server to become the Primary DC and GC Server. I do like the hardware on the machine and our current configuration, but feel it should be setup properly if we are going to rely on it. I would like to know step by step what actions must be taken to reformat the machine. Can I retain the same computer name? Do I have to demote the server and promote the backup DC (Server 3) then reformat then promote Server 1 back to Primary DC and GC? I am not worried about the services on the machine as those will be easy to move to another server. It is mainly the Domain Controller function that I am curious about the proper steps for this sort of project. Anything I am missing here please let me know and I will update. Thanks, 

This is a mixed AD environment, Server 2003 R2 and 2008 R2 I have a 2003 AD R2 and a 2008 R2 AD. GPO is usually managed from the 2008 R2 machine. I have a RD Gateway on another server as well. I setup the CAP and RAP to allow a normal user to log on to the departments workstation. I also adjusted the GPO for that OU to allow Log on trhough Remote Desktop Gateway for the user group. This worked on my windows 7 workstation. But unfortunately the policy is a different name in XP "allow log on through Terminal Services" I can get through right into the machine but when the log on actually happens to the local machine i get the "Cannot log on interactively" error. This is set in (for the local machine) Secpol.msc > Local Security Policy > "user rights assignment" but is controlled by the GPO in Computer Configuration > Policies > Security Settings > Local Policies > "User Rights Assignment" Do I simply need to adjust the same setting on the same GPO but with a server 2003 GP editor? Feel like that could cause issues... Looking for some direction. Or if anyone has run into this issue yet. UPDATE Should this work? support.microsoft.com/kb/186529 Still seems like I will have the issue as the actual GP settings for Log on through Terminal Services is still different between Server 2008 R2 and 2003 R2.... Another Thought: Should I delete the GPO made for the department and remake it with the 2003 R2 server? I have no 2008 specific settings as the whole department runs XP other than myself. If that's a solution I will move my computer out of the department as a solution... Thoughts? 

What happens if he forgets to change it back? Will he be able to continue to use the resources of the domain if his time and date are out of sync? Exchange, shares, even to log on....? 

As @Johnh said it is most likely your firewall. Open up port 80 on your firewall or whatever port you are hosting the local site on should it be a nonstandard port. +1 for testing with telnet. Will give you a quick and definit answer on if the Web Server has the proper port open. 

When I need to bring our database down from the data centre to the office I just do the backup in MSSQL and then compress again with winrar. I bring a 4 gig DB backup down to about 500MB then I just use the FTP server to do the transfer. Even if it stops FileZilla will let you resume. Takes about 15 minutes to download. 

I recently upgraded the company to AVG Business. It works great and really helps with spam. I noticed that our exchange server Queue about every ten minutes gets an infection. Two issues: 

They expect this to take under 30 minutes to make the switch from (worst case) infected exchange server with blocked IP to clean exchange server with clean IP. Server 2003 R2 Exchange 2003 SP2 Active Directory Assistance/Advice/ or Alternatives are ALL Appreciated! Thanks everyone, Campo EDIT: Every Machine has AVG The Exchange Server is not an open relay and requires Authentication I have done every step and taken every precaution and we still were infected. EDIT: BLOCKED AGAIN new virus name (GRUM) This is not on our exchange server. No way, scanned with so many things. Went through the registry myself. NOTHING! Scanned all other server NOTHING scanned user computers NOTHING WTF? Odd thing is email still goes through but we are on the CBL.... Moved SMTP to non standard port. Explicitly blocked port 25 on firewall. delisted us. UPDATE: I added additional IPs. Now how do I connect the users on one IP to the server on the other IP? Do I just have the Exchange server have 2 IPs (one for each internal network) or is there more to it? UPDATE 2 This is a reply to @Madboys comment under his answer: I have not done it yet. here is the setup. WE now have 5 IPs. I will use 2 for now. 1 for office network. 1 for exchange. Our modem contains both IPs sent to one port on the back of the machine. That LAN cable goes into a switch which then splits into 2. Each goes into our modem (dual Wan RV042) I assign the exchange to one subnet. Network to the other. Please confirm this plan. Ideally a PIX or similar FW appliance would be best. But again 0 dollars must be spent. Question is how will users on one subnet talk to the other? Should I set this up differently? Completely separate networks? UPDATE 3 ****OK I was able to do this. Modem to switch then I have 3 cables out of the switch. 1 Goes to a WRT54G for wireless and to separate outside consultants on their own network (they have no reason to be on ours). The other two cables go to my RV042 which supports Dual WAN. I setup a second sub-net. Now how to I isolate each WAN on its own sub-net? I believe the point of Daul WAN on this appliance is to maintain up time by utilizing separate ISPs.... Please assist. WE ARE SO CLOSE please advice ALSO: I do not see ANY outbound connections on PORT 25 other than from the exchange server. So that is good. And from the exchange the port 25 traffic is at a normal rate reflective of our volume.**** UPDATE 4 I have reasearched Open WRT and other solutons. I came upon PF Sense looks perfect!. Thoughts? I have an old P4 I can use. Then Just need a few compatible network cards :). Resolved: Modified network layout. RV042 supports 1:1 Nat Isolated Wifi on 1:1 Nat using WRT54G Using 2 nics on Exchange server 1:1 IP mapped to smtp and OWA etc. Other for network traffic. Thanks all for their help and assistance with this issue.