Could the reason be, that the emulated IOS in Packet Tracer doesn't know this command configured that way, because it's not up-to-date? 

Why would somebody structure their network like this? Does this even make sense? I mean, they are in a different LAN, why then mapping a VLAN to each one? 

It's indeed possible to configure this - nevertheless there's a "trick" called "MAC spoofing" in which someone fakes a MAC-Address - and this can easily be done. There's a standard called 802.1X (RADIUS) which will fit your needs. Nevertheless, for that you need a supplicant software (A supplicant (PC, Tablet, ..) has the data stored in order to be able to authenticate itself on the RADIUS-server (authentication-server)) which is not configured natively on every device such as printers. (Maybe your printers have a supplicant software or are able to install it) For those you would have to use MAC-Bypass (Which will authenticate a device by its MAC). Unfortunately this would create the same problem as stated above - but for fewer devices. 

I am trying to find the reason why R1 doesn't have the default-route, propagated and generated by my Internet-PAT-Router, in his routing-table. The weird thing is, that R2 actually has an entry for the default-route! I am sorry if it is a really weird simple error which is easy to find, but I just couldn't find it (even after long googling and comparing R1 and R2). I am able to ping like this: 

We have a connection between our Vyatta Router to our MPLS VPN Service Provider which is a Cisco device. We would like to know how to filter the OSPF advertisement routes on Brocade Vrouter 5400 (Vyatta). We are open to any other free or lowcost option. In order to find a solution, we tried to simulate it with GNS3. We are trying to filter from the vyatta to Cisco. The big picture : 

After a search on configuration guide and documentation, I didn't any evidence of a limitation on configuration on a certain VLAN on 450x SUP6E. Anyone know where I can found such information or confirm if is there any ? By my perception, there is no limitation on secondary IP possible to configure on a SVI or interface. Thanks. 

Device : cisco WS-C4500X-32 (MPC8572) processor (revision 4) with 4194304K/20480K bytes of memory. MPC8572 CPU at 1.5GHz, Cisco Catalyst 4500X IOS : cat4500e-universalk9.SPA.03.04.00.SG.151-2.SG (ROM: 15.0(1r)SG6) 

NAT/PAT can be used to solve your problem, 60 host on few IP Address. For your deployment and if you don't need 1:1 translation, that's mean, many address can be translated in many address AKA many-to-many translation this could be a solution. For example, if you want to deploy such scenario, here the commands for a Cisco Device. 

As @ar_ pointed out in the comments of my question: The problem was, that I configured the network command in a wrong way. So I used subnetmasks instead of wildcard masks. (network-commands in OSPF need wildcard masks). @RonMaupin added the information in the comments of this answer, that in the newest IOS-version both ways (subnetmask and wildcardmasks) work. 

Shure, they have to be connected directly do each other, but in configuration you just configure for which interface the virtual router should exist. 

Gigabit-Interfaces are for the LAN-Networks which are configured as passive-interface. Here's the overview over my network: 

The mistake was, that I configured the same router-id on both R1 and R2 and that doesn't work! Two routers can have the same touter-id but not while having the same neighbor! A router cannot "do OSPF" by being connected with two router having the same router-id! Nevertheless, as @Karl pointed out, having the same router-id configured on two or more routers is always a problem due to the LSAs which have the router-id of the advertising router included. In addition to that, more problems can occure. But still, PC1, which is connected to R1, cannot ping the ABR... 

I have two L3-Switches performing HSRP for 3 VLANs (64,65,66). When looking at the output of the "show standby brief" command, I can see that both switches have formed a virtual router just for one vlan (65). Here's my topology: 

I can't provide the level 15 to customer so I want to know how can I configure the view access and restrict to certain command. I tried but without sucess 

Meraki devices should be configured and managed remotely by a controller located in the cloud Meraki Dashboard Login. Locally you have access to limited information like the connectivity info. If your modem provide Internet access on LAN and gives private address through DHCP, you should not configure a public IP. If you don't own a meraki dashboard account and the device is not attached to your account, you will not be able to manage the device. 

So I think this is related with Fiber Optic link but the packets counters are incrementing. ADD info : Patched cable of 3M cable due to specification. Problem not solved. Output of 

To answer your first question, I would say ICMP run up on the third layer TCP/IP but don't use the fourth (TCP/UDP not involved) so I think it's correct to describe it as running on 3.5 Layer. You can analyze yourself the data inside ICMP using a packet analyser (Wireshark recommended). Here a picture to get a better idea. 

We are an ISP and I would like to implement ACL to protect our core network (Infrastructure) and implement some filtering on public subnet inside. As border device we have a cisco WS-C4500X-32 4500x in VSS Cluster. The peak traffic on downstream is 3Gbps. I follow the guidelines and I've already define the ACL, just left implement them. My doubt now is how will be the throughput performance, if it's expected some degradation or the cpu will rise. Will the device can handle such traffic amount with filtering ? I don't have the experience to implement ACL on so high throughput device. [edit.1] Sample of ACL :