I know static NAT and dynamic NAT can run simultaneously on the same outside interface. I'm looking for a way to configure both NAPT and Dynamic NAT on the same outside interface. The inside network is 172.20.10.0/24 on Fa0/1 The outside network is 10.0.0.1/28 on Fa0/0 I have 10 outside global IP's in an NAT pool 10.0.0.3 - 10.0.0.13 for 10 specific inside local hosts. I have 1 outside global IP that I would like to use NAPT for all other inside local hosts. Is this possible? or is it easier to do a static NAT for the 10 inside local IP's and NAPT for all other inside local hosts? This is on a Cisco 1841 IOS 15.1 

Okay so this is one of those times when you should always verify your network map even if you are pretty confident it is correct. The jack on the wall at my desk that I was connecting the switch to was passing through an old Dell switch hidden away on a rack. The Dell switch was only passing untagged traffic so this is the reason Span tree was not working. This is why when I would run my debugs on both ends I could see the BPDU's leaving each switch but neither Cisco switch would recieve any BPDU's from each other. As soon as I ripped that old dell out of the server room and threw it away, everything works. I suppose this is why we have an OSI model for troubleshooting, always start at layer 1 and always verify even if someone swears the network map is correct. 

When you set your aging parameters you have several options, you can have it based on time, or type, or statically set: 

You probably will want to look into port-security sticky (dynamically learns the MAC) then configure aging to age out old MAC Addresses on each interface. You wont be able to have port security configured and at the same time allow a MAC to move from interface to interface without problems. As stated above, it defeats the purpose of port-security. For each interface you can configure it to dynamically learn the mac with: 

So I started spinning in circles which brought me to the route table...For some reason I had 2 default routes and one static which had a mistyped network and pointed to a routable address. The first route outlined in red is set via the host name of the ASA which is the default gateway for my Inside network. The second route outlined in red is a default to the host name of the asa, which is a private IP not routable. So whenever I would hit certain IP's most of the time it was probably hitting that route which would send that traffic back to the INSIDE interface and never get anywhere. I noticed that my ACL on the INSIDE network was getting alot of hits on its incoming ACL entries but nothing on the OUTSIDE ACL, that sort of tipped me off. Everything is working now. 

Does anyone know what license is required on a Cisco 2921 router to use Policy Based routing? Here is my show version output: 

I have 4 branches each with a 10mbps WAN connection to HQ. HQ has a 30Mbps WAN connection. I need to deploy QoS over the WAN with a 5 class model. 

A printer was sent out to a location with a static IP from its previous location. Printer 123 was on subnet 192.168.5.0/24 in Branch A with a static IP of 192.168.5.5. Printer 123 was sent to branch B with a different network 172.16.4.0/24, BUT the static IP from branch A was never removed from Printer 123. Now it is sitting in Branch B with a static IP from its old network. How can I access the web interface to change it to DHCP? Proposed solution: If I place the switch port that the printer is connected to on its own vlan and place the vlan IP on its same network but a 192.168.5.0/30 (4 IP's 2 usable)just enough to cover the printer's static IP so it can be accessed, would that cause any issues with the routing tables? There is already a route that points traffic to 192.168.5.0/24 out a particular interface. The majority of the traffic (95%) from this branch forwards to branch A. Would my solution work? is there an easier way? Apparently restoring to default does not work, then again I do not have an IT guy out there to ensure it actually is being restored to default settings. 

Simply put, filters the length of TCP segment data in bytes, while (or in newer versions of Wireshark) filters for the actual data (sequence of bytes) within the TCP segment data. Example: 

Issuing the command , which is the same as , will not affect other VLANs' instances of Per VLAN Spanning Tree Plus (PVST+). Example: 

You can walk these OIDs manually, script something out in the language of your choice, or use much smarter programs/scripts similar to what's mentioned in Tim Peck's answer. Here's a quick (and dirty) shell example: 

Yes, the switchports will form a trunk as does not disable DTP. A switchport configured with will also negotiate as a trunk if the connected switchport is configured with . 

Without the statement, EIGRP messages sent to the multicast address 224.0.0.10 will fail to be encapsulated. 

After your BGP table has sorted with deterministic MED enabled, removing deterministic MED will not return your BGP table to standard formatting until routes are removed/cleared and relearned. 

There are a few ways to accomplish a back-to-back frame-relay connection. A quick search returns the following options: 

The eldest route below is from ASN 123 causing the ASN group to be listed at the bottom of the output. 

My goal is to write a service check that pulls the status of a Cisco track list that is performing a . I have a screen scraper in place currently, but that is really not ideal in terms of scaling this type of service check. The track object below simply pulls out the tracked static route if and are both unreachable, allowing a BGP learned default route to be installed, that is otherwise in RIB-failure status. Configuration Example: 

SW2's hard coded priority for VLAN 5 is set to default (same effect as negating the hard coded priority). 

In your example, issuing will append to your existing peer list for 's sequence number 10. The peer list can hold up to ten addresses. 

This OID shows a depricated, but it should work on the platforms that you've listed in your comment to @Raul D. Additional required MIB files: CISCO-QOS-PIB-MIB.txt CISCO-SMI.txt CISCO-TC.txt CISCO-VTP-MIB.txt Example using snmpwalk and bash on a C3560: 

Expect may be a good candidate to consider for the job. Below is an example template I've put together that is commented out for you to play with. It will log into a WLC, grab the running configuration and append it to a file of your choice. The example file name and location is You'll need to modify the file name and location to a file of your choice (with adequate permissions) as well as the username, password and IP address of your WLC. Finally you can edit your crontab to execute the backup script using a desired interval. Crontab example: 

These routes can be re-ordered in the output by controlling the order that they're learned. Below, all eBGP neighbors advertising the 10.101.1.1/32 prefix are administratively shutdown and brought up one at a time. 

Ensuring the new VPN peer(s) have compatible IKE phase I and phase II configurations, reflexive ACLs, tunnel-group configuration for the new peer addresses and a roll-back plan may help with making this change. ASA 8.3 L2L VPN Configuration Reference Example Output: The following example shows changing an ASA's remote peer IP address from 2.2.2.2 to 4.4.4.4. 

For example, if you had five Cisco ISE nodes in a distributed deployment between two datacenters, one license would need to be applied to the primary admin node and all registered devices will operate under that license. If you had two standalone Cisco ISE nodes that were deployed completely separate from each other, each primary/standalone node would require a license before the 90-day Evaluation license expires. 

I've been digging through the Google machine, forums and the Cisco SNMP Object Navigator to no avail. 

Finally you don't need to include the syntax when performing hybrid switching. EIGRP Your matching(required) static statements may include the statement in order for EIGRP to establish a neighbor adjacency. 

Interfaces/IP Addressing: If you're looking to poll a device's IP address, subnet mask and corresponding interface you can use the following OIDs from the IP-MIB and IF-MIB MIBs: 

Unicast EIGRP Or, instead of using the keyword with your static statements to avoid encapsulation failures, you can specify EIGRP unicast neighbors under EIGRP process 100 and your adjacency should form. 

If deterministic MED is not enabled, then prefixes are listed in chronological order, regardless of originating AS, from youngest to oldest (top to bottom). 

I have a ws-C2960XR-24ps-I switch with 2 slots for power supply's but only 1 power supply inserted. So the switch is always logging an event : "%PLATFORM_ENV-1-FRU_PS_ACCESS: FRU Power Supply is not responding". When I try to disable it by running I get "power supply is not present" in response. Is there a way to disable that slot so it stops sending these log messages that there is a missing power supply? 

Like Ron says in his response, you will want to have port-security to dynamically learn (sticky) the MAC addresses, possible set a max amount to learn on each interface, and configure the aging parameters to what best suits you. 

I just want the specific log to stop without keeping it from logging any issues with the slot that is in use. 

I have a Cisco ASA that gives me some sylogs that I do not understand. My INSIDE interface is where all my private IP addresses reside for the enterprise i work for. My OUTSIDE interface is what has my public IP address block assigned to it. I often see the following logs which I do not understand, a routable IP address is being sourced on the INSIDE interface with a destination to another routable public IP on the OUTSIDE interface. Any ideas? None of the IP addresses on these logs belong to me or are assign to any of my devices. 

EDITED: ADDED FULL ROUTER CONFIG I have a cisco 2921. It uses EIGRP to learn its routing table and has no static default routes set up. I would like to keep it that way. The default route (learned from EIGRP) is another device on my network across a Metro ENS link. When this particular router receives traffic from host 192.168.2.5 I want it to be given a default route out this routers ISP connection (3.3.3.1). It is not working, does anyone know why this route map does not work? The traffic from my host arrives at Interface GigabitEthernet0/1. I want it to go out Interface GigabitEthernet0/0 using the ISP ( the IP in the route-map is the default gateway my ISP has provided). Interface gi0/0 also has a vpn tunnel configured to my main site, its more of a backup link but I do not see this as being a problem (or is it?). I have verified that the access list on interface gig0/0 is not blocking any traffic for this host. I ran and and nothing comes up. This tells me that whenever I try to access this device from the internet it is not hitting interface gi0/1 at all. I can see the traffic hitting gig0/0, but never gig0/1. Perhaps I have a NAT issue? 

Ok I believe I found the problem. My remote sites have their own routers with their own internet connection. We don,t really use it for anything other than an IPSEC tunnel back to HQ to use as a backup WAN link.. I use EIGRP to build my route tables, so these routers at my remote sites happen to not have a static default route. So anytime their public IP is pinged, scanned, and so forth, the replies are going out using the default route learned by EIGRP, which goes over our WAN line to my CORE switch then out to the internet through my ASA firewall. As soon as I add a static default route at each remote site the problem, so far, goes away. 

I have an ASA I set up for a non profit org which is not passing traffic. Packet tracer gives me mixed results depending on where the traffic is coming from, the two results are that the traffic is being dropped by an ACL and the other that it is a NAT issue. Im sure its something obvious that im missing. I can get to certain sites like youtube and google drive but not others such as dropbox or gmail. They stream live to youtube without issues as well. Im inclining towards it being a problem with traffic getting back in from the outside interface to the inside interface. Here is the current config. 

I used ip default next-hop because I want it to look at the routing table first (for internal communications to DNS, AD, local access) and then as a last resort use this route to get out to the internet. For testing, i add a static route 0.0.0.0/0 ab.ac.ab.ax and everything works great. But i do not want any of my other devices that send traffic through this router to know there is a way out to the internet. I only want this specific host to be able to use this local ISP link. This is why i am using PBR. Everything else that hits this router will go out the configured vpn tunnel on gi0/0 to another location.