BFD Overview BFD for EIGRP BFD Dampening You'll want to get some spare gear and test this out and tune it before configuring on all your production gear. 

What if you don't use a patch panel, then decide you have to move your switch further down the rack or you need to move the connection to equipment in a different location in the rack? Now your cable is not long enough to reach the new location. You are screwed because now you have to run an entire new cable through the walls. With a patch panel you would just grab a longer patch cable and be done with it. 

Check your feasible successors. The big advantage with EIGRP is the use of feasible successors which is basically a backup route that EIGRP knows is loop-free and it can start using immediately if the primary route is lost. Since you are using default metrics, you need to tune the bandwidth and delay settings of your interfaces to make sure there is a feasible successor available. You can check for them in 

If you want to avoid pointing your default route to your ISP (maybe you want to point down a tunnel instead), you will need at a minimum to create a host route for the tunnel destination IP address pointing to the ISP. 

if this is just based on the LAN, there's a few things you can do to start off to try and find out what is causing this: 

CAPWAP broadcast on the local subnet Check NVRAM for previous controllers/mobility groups and try those. OTAP (remove now though) DHCP Option 43/60 DNS Lookup for "CISCO-CAPWAP-CONTROLLER.localdomain" 

Most likely this is caused by load balancing across multiple networks. Each ping will take a different path and accordingly will have a difference TTL value. I also read about search engine providers doing strange things with TTL, but its just going through a different route either way. TTL values are different when sourced from different operating systems: 

If the controllers are on the local subnet, then it will find those via broadcast, if you have an IP helper pointing to the controller as well as ip forward-protocol on 5246/12223 it will find it that way too. The APs also keep previously joined controllers in NVRAM, and will connect to those before option 43. Note that these will happen in this order! I had an issue installing a new WLAN whilst a legacy WLAN was in use, and the IT guy had plugged in some of the APs, so they were going to the WLCs in their NVRAM instead of using option 43 like I had wanted. I factory reset on the APs solved this however. Reference is here (quite old): $URL$ 

My company won't put up the money for WLCs. So we run all autonomous APs. Haven't had any issues. We use 1-10 APs per site, same SSIDs (4-6 per site, all APs run all the SSIDs for the site). Users haven't had any issues roaming between them. I'm sure there are reasons for using a WLC (rogue AP detection, frequency selection, better mesh/roaming), but as long as things work for us, management won't give me the budget to implement them. The only bullet point I could use was managing so many APs globally used to be a pain but I resolved that with autobooting them off a TFTP config that I update. Single config for all APs. 

Aside from the switch checking to make sure the firmware is for that model and any number of boot issues you would have if you could force it to install, the 2960S firmware wouldn't fit on the flash of a 2950. The new switch firmware is too large. I believe the 2950 has an 8MB flash card while the 2960S firmware is ~13MB. EDIT: 

In the case of vPC configurations, both HSRP/VRRP peers will actively route packets when they receive them. It is a special behavior for vPC. Some information on vPC active/active routing 

You kind of answered it yourself. The advantage for each is an increased level of redundancy. The advantage of vPC is that is provides link redundancy as well as chassis redundancy. A dual-homed connection would be used for end devices that support port-channeling. For double-sided you of course need the downstream devices to also support vPC, such as a core layer of Nexus 9k connecting to a pair of Nexus 5k. 

The router is using proxy ARP. This is a feature enabled by default. Since the router knows how to reach the destination address, it will respond on the host's behalf with its own MAC address and all frames from the source will be sent to the router which can then route to the destination. Cisco Proxy ARP 

QoS will apply policies to different traffic classes as it passes through the device, such as giving priority to certain traffic. But it does not signal to the transmitter to pause. Flow control operates at the interface level and will send a Pause to an upstream transmitter telling them to pause transmission (assuming they also are set up to honor flow control messages). This can affect all traffic passing over the interface. There is an enhancement called priority flow control which applies flow control based on CoS class. The devices negotiate this using LLDP DCBX and exchange their QoS configurations, if they match, then they can successfully use priority flow control between them. Overview of PFC 

The 2950 capped at 12.1 from what I saw on Cisco's support site. I don't know what changed from 12.1 -> 15.0.2-SE6. You'd have to look into that. You could probably get away with some basic stuff but considering the port counts are possibly different and the port types are almost certainly different (Ethernet/FastEthernet on the 2950? to GigabitEthernet on the 2960S) you wouldn't be able to do a direct copy and past. You could copy and paste it into notepad or your text editor of choice and do a replace on FastEthernet for GigabitEthernet and add or remove ports that either did or did not exist on the 2950. Personally I'd wait and do the config from scratch on the 2960S. It shouldn't take long to do and that way you're not missing a step in converting an old config to a new config and messing with different ports and such. EDIT 2: If you were to load a bad IOS image on a router, switch or AP, you can boot into rommon/recovery mode on the device and use TFTP to download a working image to the unit. I have yet to see a Cisco device without this ability. 

There's quite a few issues that can cause things like this to happen. I've had a quick look around and apparently there's a common issue with iPhone/iPads roaming where your authentication is WPA+WPA2. You want to set either WPA2/AES or WPA/TKIP. If you can get on the controller, I would run debug (I don't know with HP WLCs) to try and ascertain whether the iPad is disconnecting from the WLAN entirely, or if the connection is dropping, but it remains associated. Other than that, run through the basics, make sure its not the iPad acting up by testing it somewhere else, preferably on a different WLAN (probably not possible), make sure no other devices are suffering from the same problem. Sorry I can't be more specific, but I've not used any of the HP WLCs before. 

And yes, some sites will stop responding to ICMP after a certain amount of time, or when a rate limit is hit. I believe Google's DNS on 8.8.8.8 eventually stops after a while. 

Its good to be aware that your pings are low priority, in regards to latency and also when being processed by the CPU. Might also be a good idea to double check your QoS settings and make sure there's no silly mistakes causing this, as much as that is unlikely. 

For point-to-point links, use a maximum size of /30. Depending on your model of router, it may support a subnet size of /31 which would be even better. Carve these small subnets out of your unused space. You can reserve a /24 network and use it only for p2p links, then take your smaller /30 /31 subnets from this space. 

You can't route based on layer 7 application using only BGP. BGP features will only allow you to tweak the actual prefix advertisements/preference, not anything at layer 7. For active application inspection and policy routing you would need an external service provider to act as a reverse proxy for your public subnet. Then you would build a GRE tunnel from each of your ISP connections to this provider and they forward you the traffic down these tunnels. I haven't heard of anyone offering this type of application load balancing service, but it doesn't seem unrealistic since there are security services that operate in this same manner in order to "scrub" malicious traffic before sending it to your site. 

This depends on the model of device. Some of them have dedicated physical management interfaces. Others just use a vlan SVI interface. 

Yes but you will need the IPS module on your ASA. Then you can define a custom signature with the info from your snort rule. Alternatively, if you don't have the IPS module and if using snort is an option, you could use Snortsam to trigger a block in your ASA config when snort detects a threat. 

I'm sure there are more that others can fill in I just don't know what the other negatives are We only use them in our colo setup. Was cheaper to have an integrated switch in the G2 router that we supplied than to pay for another RU and a 1U switch. 

It doesn't make sense to me that it cannot reach my laptop to download the final file after it has already downloaded the kernel and other files from my laptop successfully. On top of that, the WLC package works flawlessly. 

You could use PKI in your authentication which would require assigning certs to devices. This is covered under the AnyConnect Essentials license. One thing to note, I have never gotten any ASA to accept any certs encrypted with higher than 2048 bits. This may have changed in releases newer than 9.1.2 though. A more in depth option would be using the Host Scan and Posture Module of AnyConnect. This requires the AnyConnect Premium license and depending on which options, it may require further licensing. This gives you more control and you can limit access to systems with specific registry keys, BIOS serial numbers, OSes, AntiVirus, Firewalls, etc. 

If you are using 802.1x on a cisco switch, you can configure the interface to fallback to an authorized vlan if the server is dead. 

You don't need fabricpath to run a vPC+ from a FEX. Fabricpath is really only useful in large data centers where you have a multiple tier topology (Core, Aggregation, Access). In a smaller setup using a collapsed core type design, vPC is simpler and accomplishes the same goal of getting rid of spanning tree. 

I think your issue is this command This disables negotiation of all capabilities, one of which is a 4byte AS 

Cisco routers support a type of dynamic access list called a reflexive access list. It observes outbound traffic and will automatically add an entry to the inbound access-list permitting the return traffic. 

It's because R1 doesn't know how to reach those other interfaces (it doesn't have routes for those networks). You need routes on R1 pointing to R2 for the other two subnets. R1 of course knows how to reach 172.16.2.2 because it has an interface on that network. 

I wasn't able to paste this picture in the comments. Usually what you want is your full mesh connections to all be in the backbone area 0. Then you split off other stub areas that are all attached to area 0. So all of your WAN links would be in area 0, then the links on the router towards the local site LAN would be in its own area. 

When installing the SRE-V software on one of my SRE modules in a Cisco 2911, it keeps failing to download the final files after loading the Linux kernel. These are the interface configs from the router: 

Otherwise the VPN traffic will bypass the ACLs. However you can use a VPN filter instead of placing ACLs on the interface and avoid turning off the option. Example may be found here: $URL$ 

I forgot to include the user section but cisco/cisco is a temp account with privilege 15. Any ideas why SCP is failing when SSH works just fine? EDIT: SCP debug output 

I would pick up a cheap Cisco router/ASA/pix device and set it up with port forwarding/DMZ on the ATT router so all packets going to your public IP that aren't receiving traffic for connections like your wife, go to the router/ASA/pix. Then I would configure it as a remote VPN termination point. An ASA5505 will probably set you back $200. But you might be able to find an 1800/2800 series router to work with for less. If you get an ISR like those, make sure it has the security IOS or you have a way to get the security or better IOS on it. As you most likely have a dynamic public address, I would use something like no-ip.com or another dynamic DNS service to have a domain that points to your public IP and updates when it changes. This might be configurable on the ATT router or you may need to run software on a computer in the network. This would allow secure access to your private network. Once on the VPN, you could connect to your lab equipment via SSH/HTTP/Console depending on how you setup the internal side. EDIT: If you're already doing port forwarding/DMZ to your company router, then you would need to ask them to allow you to have a VPN termination point on it for your private network.