in .screenrc. I'd like this kind of behaviour. I am not using GNU screen because it handles terminal resizing extremely poorly. 

I want a way for all three to work within tmux. I know 3 won't work in split screens. I'm OK with that. I won't be using split screens. I know there's . That only does number 2 in the above list. I really really want all three in that list. GNU screen actually has this ability. You use the line 

I like navigating forms in web browsers with the keyboard, but chrome is making this very difficult. Normally when you hit tab to select the next form item, a dotted rectangle or something like that highlights it, so you know which item you're editing. Chrome isn't doing that consistently in all web sites. Is there a way to force checkbox highlighting? 

I only want to sync bookmarks. Unless I'm mistaken, though, the moment I sign into chrome for the first time, it immediately syncs everything, including history and passwords. This is a profoundly stupid thing to do. I should be able to choose what to sync BEFORE syncing. Is this possible? If it isn't, then I'm just going to have to avoid chrome sync altogether. 

All versions of windows slow down over time. Using windows tools to "rollback" is unlikely to actually DO that, rather it will just break and re-link things to give the appearance of it. Your best bet for backups/security/archives is to do a clean install on a zeroed drive, install drivers, update system, install known good programs, then IMAGE the partition. If you need to restore for any reason, wipe the partition and reload the image to it. 

Windows install media (DVD/USB) should have recovery tools to re-write the MBR. I imagine you will want the one from your latest OS (Vista) 

The DNS of your router works to resolve outbound traffic. Your solution will involve port forwarding on the router (consult your manual) and probably a ddns client to be run inside your home network so your LAN is always available at www.$user375251.com Check $URL$ 

Sounds like bad/ corrupted install media. Run your md5sums/sha256sums against the iso, then the actual media. 

Please note this is concept only, syntax oe&e, and will need tweaking to your environ. -edit for clarity- (at a computer now) 

Two products I recommend will clean grease, oil, etc: "Brake clean" aerosol products, and "Electronics cleaner" aerosol. Obviously the latter is more suited to the task, but neither should do any harm. both contain a good deal of alcohol and evaporate quickly without leaving residue. 

Please help! I'm pretty sure there is something in my sshd configuration, that I don't completely understand… I need someone to point my mistake Thank you UPDATE: Here is the log info, I'v got from : 

I'm trying to connect via sftp to my Synology NAS 215j running sftp server. The sshd works great for root user, but when I do sftp as root, I'm getting just after typing correct passphrase for my ssh key. Here is the /etc/ssh/sshd_config: 

Thanx to Steffen Ullrich, I've finally found the reason of that error... The myCA.crt was already in PEM format, as DER is binary file while PEM is base64 encrypted text. 

I need help creating SSL certificate with multiple subjectAltNames, signed with my own selfbrewed CA certificate. What I need: I'm on OSX 10.10.5 I have myCA.cer which I use to sign another SSL certificate which has next alternative names: (not sure if IP can be an alternative name though…) 

No result(( I want to install this awesome tmux-powerline but after folowing the instructions preciesly I see no changes - just standard tmux line instead of that nice customized one(( I've tried even powerline project and it works with Vim and prompt line, but totally ignores my Tmux line… my ~/.tmux.conf: 

I've recently had a linux live USB completely fail to boot on a mac running El Capitan, which makes me suspect secure boot is rearing its ugly head in the Apple world, as well as the PC world. So my question is thus: does, or has Apple ever used EFI secure boot? 

GUI terminal emulators like xfce4-terminal have several ways of scrolling through the terminal's buffer. Primarily: 

I applied the instructions on Ask VG to the classic theme to permanently hide the command bar. This is the resulting . I hope this saves some of you some time. 

My own solution ended up being a switch to the mplayer fork called mpv, which handles the realtime terminal time display much more sensibly by default. It seems serious mplayer development has completely stagnated, thus mpv is now better in every way imaginable. It has become my primary media player. 

If I understand the situation, modern hard drives are responsible for bad sector detection and avoidance. When a sector is written, it is immediately read back to ensure that sector is good, and if it isn't, the physical sector is marked bad and the data is written somewhere else, changing the mapping between that virtual sector and its physical sector. That all makes sense except for one thing: where are all of these extra sectors coming from? Are there just more physical sectors than virtual sectors? That's the only thing that makes sense to me. Otherwise, a command like would fail eventually once it inevitably hits the bad sectors, which are sure to exist, even on the best and newest of drives. Also, after running the above command, as far as the hard drive knows, every virtual sector on it is being used. Yet there isn't a sudden increase in write errors on the software end, like you would expect there to be if the hard drive had run out of room to remap bad sectors. Therefore the hard drive must have somewhere else to map any new bad sectors it finds, even though as far as the hard drive knows, the entire virtual address space is being used. Assuming there are more physical sectors than virtual ones, how can you figure out how many extra sectors there are, and how many are left? That way, when the extra sector supply is running low, I could get some kind of warning so I can replace my hard drive before it dies. EDIT: It turns out I didn't exactly understand the situation right. Reading after every write operation isn't necessary when error correction codes are used. That makes me wonder, though: does a sector get marked bad and remapped every time an ECC has to be used to recover from a write error to a sector? 

I'm checking if the mac address is correct using and WakeOnLan GUI from . They show identical addresses so I believe this is the correct address of wifi interface which are the computers connected through (en1-for macbookpro, en2-for macpro). It also doesn't work for my new mac pro (Late 2013). So what am I doing wrong? Should it be like that or do I need to somehow open those ports? Am I missing anything? Please help. 

I've got a home network: three hosts on OS X and printer. All the devices are wireless and connected into a network via Actiontech T1200H router which is also provides internet. One computer(MacPro) works as a server and never switched off. But for now DNS and DHCP services provided by router (which I've got from my ISP)... Is it possible to use Dnsmasq to override the services provided by router? my dnsmasq.conf: 

Trying to configure Snorby(ruby app) to work with Apache/2.4.12 and Passenger 5.0.10. -- I've successfully installed from homebrew apache and passenger. 

I am having strange issue with zsh and ohmyzsh(with powerlevel9k theme) on MacOS High Sierra. After installing ohmyzsh when issuing getting annoying and strange output of some script. And all completions stop working. Absolutely the same configuration on Linux works just as expected. Here is how it looks like: 

I'm not familiar with the program, but that looks as though you need the java dev kit (JDK) and the java runtime (JRE) 

You are probably looking for something like "synaptics pointing" package from your distro's repo. Then use your desktop environment's tools to configure it. 

A) Why? What is the point in having a "balanced" plan, that isn't? B) If you want identical plans with different names: Delete all plans and create new ones based on THE SAME base option. C) Windows probably doesn't give you access to every option, and plans created as "balanced" probably have flags (in the registry, knowing windows) to scale the CPU, or limit it's voltage or frequency, or drop cores, or otherwise "balance" the power demands. 

As above, and depending on requirement for Access to the data. If not (or not often): image the drives with linux dd. If you require some kind of access I'd create a c:\olddisks\1,2,3,4 etc and use linux' rsync to do a file-level copy off each drive. It is unlikely you will buy a motherboard with enough connectors to have all your drives in at once, so you will be swapping out drives to do either. NAS solutions will exist but I would not trust slotting in any, but especially multiple, windows boot drives. 

How much space do Windows 7-10 actually occupy on the UEFI System Partition (ESP)? my reasons: I'm installing Linux on a new computer with a blank hard drive. I would like the option of installing Windows on it later if I need to, and I would like to know now while I am formatting the partition table how big I need to make the ESP in case I do decide to drink that kool-aid. I know there are recommendations to allocate ~200MiB of space, but I can safely assume that there is a massive safety margin I know I won't need. I do only have a small SSD so it's not like I'm made of gigabytes here. As a pre-emptive stfu to all the people who say 200 megs isn't a lot, think of it as a 50% savings and you'll see why I care. The entire system is comprised of little pieces of 200MiB or less, and a 50% reduction in each of these components across the board is huge. My own purposes notwithstanding, this would be a good thing to know in general and I'm sure there are others who require this information for all kinds of reasons. 

I've installed avast from I'm trying to add folder as an exception for a file system shield. Even though I have "show hidden files" option enabled on my mac, Avast is still not showing hidden files (such as ) Hidden files in Finder: 

- Router's WAN IP (it is behind the ISP's firewall/router) - Server's public IP - Android client's public IP Android Strongswan.app log: 

I've installed tmux 2.0 from homebrew on OSX 10.10.5 By default it does not create a config, but I've researched that there should be ~/.tmux.conf file so I've created it myself I'm using iTerm2. The problem is that whatever I add to this config file - it doesn't affect tmux. So after restarting tmux I see no changes… I want my tmux to have large scrollback buffer: 

Have troubles opening the port 9 on os x 10.10.3 yousemite using pf firewall. I want to do this for being able to get wake-on-lan packets to this port. I assume that for WoL to work the port (on the machine to be awaken) should be opened for UDP packets (Please correct me if I'm not right) Having this in /etc/pf.conf: 

Problem/Question: 1 -- Wildcard in CN doesn't work (Google chrome still says it's untrusted, even though I've set complete trust options in keychain) 2 -- When I add the cert to keychain (myCA.cer is already there) it recognizes it as valid and trusted, but the cert itself (foo.crt) doesn't have Alternative DNS names which I mentioned in config. Please help me to get my multiple Alt DNS names for this kind of certificate thank you! 

There's O&O ShutUp10. It ranks really highly on duckduckgo and I've seen it mentioned in a few other places like thewindowsclub.com. Right now, though, there doesn't seem to be a clear frontrunner in this space. So, maybe just try a bunch of the suggestions in the second link? 

paprefs configures pulseaudio in some way, ultimately probably by modifying some configuration files, but which ones? I want to know so that I can do the same kind of configuration but manually using my text editor. 

I just found a friend running windows 7. Its /boot/efi/Microsoft partition is 17.2MiB. Refind occupies another 7.1 MiB, making the total well under 32 MiB. It is unlikely Windows 8 or 10 uses much more than that, but it would be nice to know anyway. A 64MiB partition should be plenty. 

Download and install Easy Display Manager before running the BIOS Updater. I'm not exactly sure why, but the Easy Display Manager is a prerequisite to updating the BIOS. When it's installed, run the BIOS updater under windows 7 compatibility mode. It should automatically download and install the BIOS problem-free from here. If something goes wrong after the new BIOS is successfully downloaded, try finding the downloaded BIOS (in the same folder as the updater. It has a name like ITEM_20130321_500_WIN_06UU.exe.) and running it directly, also in windows 7 compatibility mode. After the system is restarted, as a sanity check, run the BIOS updater again to check and make sure the latest BIOS is indeed installed on your system. After the BIOS is updated, Easy Display Manager may be uninstalled.