Check your firewall, it's likely blocking the ingress of your SSH and pings. Are you trying to connect to SSH via root? That's disabled by RH, you need to enable that. 

Yes. The installation DVD/ISO needs to have SP3 slipstreamed in it. Older versions without SP3 won't install. 

I don't have experience with HP laptops, but with Dell laptops, if you're using an underpowered AC adapter, the system will throttle down, even with a full battery charge. Are you using the original AC Adapter? Do you have a 2nd AC adapter to try? It's possible that your AC Adapter isn't putting out the full amperage needed. 

Instead of messing with the Registry, have you tried via the Control Panel. Under "Associate a file type or protocol with a program" you can select the extension and then associate a program with it. Clicking the "Change program" button allows you to browse to the folder where the .exe is. Also, make sure you're selecting the correct .exe file. If you double-click the .exe you want to associate, does it launch the program you're expecting? 

They are different enough that (1) you cannot rely on them being the same, (2) it will frustrate you a great deal, and (3) you really should carefully test any script you plan to use on both systems. The way I usually handle all this is to install the GNU and and use those versions in preference to the Mac ones. You can install the GNU versions via one of the *nix packaging tools for OSX: 

Boot the system into recovery mode. To do this, reboot and hold down Command and the 'r' key at the same time. Launch a terminal and enter . This will launch a window. From there, you can choose what user you want to reset the password for (including root, if you've enabled root). 

tends to produce a lot of false positives. Better safe than sorry for a server, but frustrating and confusing for the average computer user. I don't mean to be cavalier, but unless you are using your laptop in some pretty unusual ways, it's exceedingly unlikely that you have a rootkit on it. So my answer is "Yes, ignore it." Frankly, I wouldn't use at all on a laptop - assuming the laptop gets normal laptop use (so to speak) and isn't a server on the weekends or a peer-to-peer hub. (I would, however, check the firewall settings, practice safe browsing, be careful about files from other people, etc.) 

There is no WPS Pin, you need to add a password. On the printer, press Menu. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Network, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Wi-Fi Direct, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Group Owner, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select On, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Manual, and then press OK. When Wi-Fi Direct On? appears, enable the Wi-Fi Direct network. The machine will display the SSID name and password for two minutes. Write down the network name (SSID) and password. You will need this information later. $URL$ Machine 

You can stay in in Windows with the following: $URL$ $URL$ You'll need to adjust the target partition so it expands to the full size of the drive, but it's pretty much install, and follow the wizard. 

Click Options from the menu, then click Privacy. Under "History\Waterfox will:" click "remember history" and change it to "Use custom settings for history" The last checkbox is "Clear history when Waterfox closes." There is a settings button on the right of that option that lets you pick what you want to clear, one of the options is cookies. 

I use shell functions for things that are reasonably small and self-contained, and that are helper commands for the shell rather than full programs in their own right. Once something becomes a proper program, I write it up as such and move it to the bin directory in my folder (which is already in my ). Here's an example: 

Are you trying to edit the file with or MacVim? If you're using the system's default command line (the one Apple provides), it probably lacks support for many things Janus relies on. If you are using MacVim, then maybe you accidentally got a much older version? Since you say you're on Snow Leopard, you should go with the very latest snapshot release from the downloads page on Github 

I don't know of a client, but you can try out Fluid which allows you to make what they call site specific browsers. It's the next best thing to having a dedicated application. See here for more: $URL$ 

Edit: I'm following up here, rather than in comments because it's getting too long for a comment. The line in your .profile with comes from the package manager Fink, which I'm assuming you use (or used at some point). The other line seems to suggest that at some point you installed MacPython and it rewrote your for you. I don't know MacPython, but if it's this site, then it hasn't been updated since 2004. It also doesn't seem to talk about any version of OS X beyond 10.3, which is not very current. So now I'm more confused: when did you update Python? How did you update it? What version of OS X are you running? 

After you click in the search bar, the search tab is now selected. At the end of the search section is a "+more" command, clicking that will bring up a list of categories to add to the search. 

In Search, search for and then select: System (Control Panel) Click the Advanced system settings link. Click Environment Variables. In the section System Variables, find the PATH environment variable and select it. Click Edit. If the PATH environment variable does not exist, click New. In the Edit System Variable (or New System Variable) window, specify the value of the PATH environment variable. Click OK. Close all remaining windows by clicking OK. Reopen Command prompt window, and run your java code. 

In Windows diskpart should be able to delete these. It's a command line prompt you run as administrator. You need to launch and elevated command prompt and run diskpart. See: $URL$ In diskpart: 

Older versions of the SonicWall clients have issues with Windows 10 (and Windows 8). There was a Windows and DNE fix offered for a while. Recent versions of the client starting with at least 4.9 will work with Windows 10. I believe the current version is 4.10 and also works fine with Windows 10. I have seen on occasion where a Windows update breaks the VPN, but all that's needed is a reinstall, no immediate reboot necessary, for the VPN to work again. 

Note that the variable is assigned without a dollar sign ( or ), but when you use it, you need or . So you would want something like this: 

The flag simulates commands. You can run such a command as a regular user, and there's no danger of actually harming your system. It allows you to see easily what the proposed action would do. One thing to keep in mind is that this sort of check will show you gross breakage, but it won't show broader mistakes. What I mean is you might be able to remove package Foo without truly breaking your system, but it may severely limit the usefulness of package Bar. In general, packages are chained together through recommendations to prevent just this, but it's worth keeping in mind. You can also search for dependencies and reverse dependencies using , but I find the simulated run is the most vivid way of seeing what will happen. 

Original version: The article that John links to suggests that you use the installer disc to repair a lost admin password, but since you mention that you're far from an installer disc, I will mention that there is an old Unix hack available. (Edit: Just to clarify, once upon a time there was another answer here that linked to this Apple support page. I still think that's a useful page to have linked as part of this discussion, so I'm putting it into this answer. Also, I don't want anyone thinking I imagined another answer.) 

Take a look at zerotier: $URL$ It's an always on VPN, no logins. You'll set up a network, authorize and add the two computers to it with your specific IP addresses, and then you've got essentially a LAN connection between the two. $URL$ 

repeat steps 3,4,5 for the remaining partitions until all 3 have been removed. Be very careful when selecting and deleting, make sure you've got the right disk and partition before you delete. If you select and delete the wrong partition you could lose your data some pics here: $URL$ 

list disk -- this shows all the disks select disk number to select the correct disk, probably disk 1 list partition -- this shows all 3 of your partitions select partition number -- to select one of the partitions delete partition -- removes the partition 

Integration Components After the installation completes, you'll need to manually install the Integration Components (IC). (Same as the answer I provided on the other post you linked) You will need to get the IC from an older version of Hyper-V. I have them on my wordpress site here: $URL$ You can also download Hyper-V server from Microsoft and extract them, if you want them from a trusted source. The 2012R2 version of the IC should auto-install after you mount the ISO to the dvd drive and install all the necessary drivers. Unknown Devices You will see 2 unknown devices. Per Microsoft these are expected and can be ignored for OSes earlier than Windows Server 2012 R2. ($URL$ XP on Hyper-V is definitely achievable and generally trivial to install. One other note, audio will require you to use RDP to connect to XP and the host system must have working audio. 

I recommend that you use the full path of the file that you want to read rather than assuming that the two scripts will be in the same directory. I won't swear that this is the most elegant solution. 

The chapter on installing software is split between deb based (Debian based) systems and rpm based (Red Hat based) systems, so that should work for Fedora. 

I know that you can use FIGNORE to remove filename completion from suffixes. For example, to avoid a lot of garbage files produced by LaTeX, I've been using: 

James' idea to use a live cd (assuming the root account is not enabled) is a good one. I would add a few points. 

The browser picks up on the link type and offers to subscribe you. I'm surprised to hear that Chrome doesn't recognize these. (Perhaps that's platform specific?) 

Cron runs under a very minimal environment. Supply explicit, full paths for all shell commands (e.g., instead of and so on - check where the relevant items are first with and so on), and it will likely run fine. 

VMware Workstation and QEMU emulate & virtualize different hardware. Since XP is so old, it can rarely recover from a major subsystem change. First thing to try is removing the VMware Tools from the XP image while it's running in Workstation. This should remove any VMware specific drivers and may allow the system to boot. If that doesn't work, you will likely need to do a repair installation of XP. Boot from your XP CD-ROM, when you get to the setup screen, you want to press enter, not R. Follow the setup wizard, when you are prompted the second time to do a repair, press R, setup will detect the correct hardware and install the necessary drivers. Illustrated repair: $URL$ 

VirtualBox has this ability built into it's VirtualBox Additions. See: $URL$ Before sharing folders, you must install Guest Additions. For instructions on how to do this, see Guest Additions ($URL$ Creating a shared folder 

There is an option to hide it. You can get the menu bar back by: Press the host key+HOME...default home key is the right ctrl. This will bring a pop-up menu, click View-->Menu Bar-->Show Menu Bar 

(Look for in the section.) I did this for awhile to keep MacPorts version of Getmail, but in the end, I just began to manually install Getmail instead. I love both MacPorts and Fink, but I hate how quick they are to drag in whole new Python, Perl or Ruby installations. As a contrast, you might check out Rudix. It's a much thinner environment, though it doesn't support as many packages as MacPorts or Fink. 

The search in finds any packages that were removed but not purged in the first removal. One final note, if you haven't been using , always check its output the first time you try to run it. Don't simply say "Yes" to whatever it wants to do. Depending on what package manager you've been using, you may find that thinks some things should be autoremoved, but you prefer to keep them. 

EDIT August 31, 2013: Current versions of Ruby don't need this patch any longer (Ruby has it by default). However, there is still one thing that can go wrong. You must make sure that Ruby is built as a shared library. If Vim crashes in the same way, it probably has to do with this issue. Make sure to add your configure options include . (See this bug report for further discussion.)