I am asking about stuff that would be within the normal operating limits when the Pi is on, i.e. 3v3 level voltages at small currents, when the pi is shut down (but still powered), and also when the Pi's power has been completely removed (and thus it's ground would be floating relative to the input signals) specific case: it seems like the l293d (or sn754410 alternative) motor chip tends to "leak" small amounts of current when powered on - do I need to completely disconnect it from the Pi when I want to shutdown the Pi? (yes, one solution would be to power it from the pi such that it shuts itself down when the pi power is removed, but I am curious what would happen and if it's safe) 

I have a HDMI -> VGA cable for my Pi that works well when I want to use it. The cable stays slightly warm even when not in use, but connected - I would like to know if it's possible to "shut down" power to the HDMI port if/when there is no activity - like a computer going to sleep (does the Pi sleep? - I usually just turn off the monitor) - or does the cable draw power from the VGA side via the turned-off (but not unplugged) monitor? I am running raspbian in CLI mode, no GUI, so some of the screen-saver settings/graphics may not apply or be available to me. 

Seeing as how the model A supports OTG mode via the hardware (both the CPU and USB controller were designed for it) 

control electronics such as transistors (that get their power from elsewhere) Diodes (low power displays) + a resistor to limit the current switches + a resistor to limit the current and pull it up/down 

It could be possible if you had an OS that loads itself into ram completely, and then formats the card - the question is what happens after that - unless you also put an OS back on the card, you would eventually need to remove the card to do so. Another interesting idea would be to hack a wifi-SD card and do it via it's OS, however this could cause issues with anything running on the Pi (although I suspect the on-board OS would be able to take priority, the default is probably against that), and I am not sure how much power a Pi can supply to a SD card 

don't plug in an electric motor directly: controlling one is fine, but if it is connected directly, the Pi has nowhere near enough power to run it, and can be destroyed if the motor is spun and acts like a generator, sending power into the pi. don't plug stuff in while the pi is running - while this can be done, the reasons to avoid this are to make sure you know the state of the GPIOs before connecting stuff to them. It also gives you time to spot mistakes before sending power and potentially breaking stuff. Don't plug anything with a high (or negative) voltage - the GPIOs are binary and consider 3.3 as "on" - any higher and you will damage the pi. They also take 0 as "off" - any lower and you can damage the Pi again. power sources - the Pi is not meant to be powered via GPIO, and you bypass the protection polyfuse if you do this - a signal (reduced via a resistor) would be OK. 

Why is it connected there? According to the 100Base-T Ethernet specification, that should be unconnected. Does this serve any function? could it harm the device at the receiving end? would it be OK to disconnect (i.e. not have that wire in the Ethernet cord)? 

Since the Pi does not support gigabit Ethernet, does it use all the Ethernet pins? are some left floating, or are they connected to something? (100mb/s Ethernet is achievable with only 4 of the 8 pins) 

Seems like the quad core CPU is more power hungry, but looking at the scale on the right helps bring it into perspective: under 40 degrees Celsius is fine for a CPU package, no heatsink needed and to quote from the RPi foundation 

Even with the second cable, the Pi is unlikely to be able to power a single hard drive, let alone two. The hard drives have a second cable because they can't get enough current via a single 500mA cable, while the B+ pi can by default support up to 600mA (depending on the input power supply) spread across all 4 USB ports. Under worst-case scenario, your hard drives would want 2000mA of current, which is well above that. Now this can be improved, assuming a VERY good input power supply for the Pi, you can modify the config.txt file and bump it up to 1200mA, which is still well short of the 2000mA, but enough to power ONE hard drive, provided that it uses BOTH cables. The fact that the hard drives require a separate cable means that they require a separate cable, regardless of what system (pi or otherwise) you plug them into, and the Pi isn't going to be able to overcome this restriction. 

I am looking for a usb adapter that will support both wifi and bluetooth on a single usb port, are there any that work for the Pi? More specifically, are there any that support atleast Wifi N and Bluetooth 4.0+ (looking for BLE capabilities)? related: this thread, but it's a bit old and im hoping to find one with bluetooth 4.0 or higher 

Source I would like to ask how to access and use this functionality specifically I want to get the Pi to act like a USB flash drive and expose a partition of the SD card via that interface. I intend to use this in my car instead of a USB flash drive, and have the Pi connect to wifi and sync the contents of the drive periodically (such that I do not have to physically remove the flash drive in order to update the content that the car sees). If there are other devices that can do this, I would be interested in them as well (Phones wouldn't work because they need to be turned on via a physical button instead of simply turning on when power is provided). 

note that from the picture, the main component that gets hot is the USB/ethernet hub - by far, this MAY warrant a heatsink if you are using those components heavily, it has restricted airflow due to a case/etc. and it is in a warmer environment, or some combination thereof. The second component that gets warm in the image is the 3.3v regulator - this is to be expected from a linear regulator, and basically a non-issue in the new + editions of the pi. These pieces are designed to heat up (that is how they work), so I would not be concerned with this piece needing a heatsink. Finally, the CPU (and memory which is above the CPU) - this is unlikely to need a heatsink since it will throttle itself if it gets too hot - if you do notice throttling, then you may want a heatsink (and you could run into this if you overclock.. but if you really are THAT desperate for more CPU power, perhaps the Pi isn't for you...) edit to add new model: Giles Read has added a heatmap image of the Pi 2: 

If you don't mind keeping a folder in sync as opposed to a specific file, bittorent sync can do that, and here is a link it does NOT need internet (in fact it works better with local connections) I don't know about it working over bluetooth (should be possible), but it will work just fine over wifi (could setup a hotspot and either have the phone connect to it or have it connect to the phone) 

There is now a B+ version of the Pi that comes with 4 USB ports - this seems like it would be ideal for your purposes. edit: and also a Pi2 version that has 4 USB ports (and also can support more power on those ports) 

I am looking for a way to have the Pi create an image of it's SD card and send it off to a networked file share in a repeatable manner, and then resume operations. I imagine that it would need the entire OS in ram during this time, or at have everything mounted in read-only mode, however I am unsure about this - does anyone have ideas or something similar setup? non-solutions: anything that would require manual intervention, especially physically moving the SD card into something else - this needs to be able to be completely automated.