So the initiating server was able to connect at one point and now all of the sudden it cannot? And the only thing you know that has changed is the initiating server has file services installed? Could perhaps a default setting been changed? I know that on server 2008 systems there is some setting to allow remote desktop connections for older remote desktop connection applications from older systems. Is there a setting to allow you to remote connect to older remote desktop connection systems? Has anything changed on the 2003 system? Can you verify it can accept connections? Try to initiate the connection from another host. For instance do you have an XP client or another server 2003 system you could attempt to initiate the connection from? If that works then the issue would likely exists on the server 2008 system. If not, then it is either an issue with the server 2003 system on the other side of the tunnel or a network issue. 

Routing and firewall seems a little too high level for this issue. You say servers connected on the same switch will ping, but ones connected to other switches do not. I would say you need to trunk your VLANs on the switches. Check all your trunks and make sure that the necessary VLANs are added. If you run VTP, make sure you added the new lab VLAN to VTP using the VTP server. The reason I do not think its a routing issue is because if two devices exist in different networks they always have to talk to a gateway before they can talk to each other. Doesn't matter if they are connected to the same switch or not. So in the case of the server and lab computer, they are in different VLANs. So if one tries to ping the other, that ping has to go up to a layer 3 address first (the gateway) before the ping will respond. The OP states that a ping from the lab computer to the server on the same switch works fine, so routing should not be an issue. 

VLANs do not really have IP addresses assigned to them. They have a network assigned to them, or a subnet, or a network range, however you want to refer to it. The address the OP supplied us is an assignable address within the range of 192.168.4.1-255. So lets say the range is applied to a group of servers so on a Cisco switch and we give the VLAN a description of "Server VLAN", 4.100 would be an address that can be given to an individual server. When referring to the Server VLAN, generally one may use the VLAN number or the network address, but typically not a specific address and the whole mask. At least the network admins I work with do not. As I mentioned above, the OPs address can be a gateway address, but typically would not be because when you think of an environment like a large corporation, if you do not have a system of how gateway addresses are assigned, keeping track of them can be rather difficult. Thus most network admins use the first or last assignable address of a given range for the gateway. In the case of the OP, that would be 192.168.4.1 or 192.168.4.254. I'm not saying this is always the case, rather best practice and generally makes the most sense. 

In case this helps other people, I have a Synology NAS and the NFS point actually added another item to the path. I was trying to mount "xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/folder" as this is what I do in Windows. But for Ubuntu with NFS I had to use "xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/volume1/folder". 

Isn't the reason why xhtml appears broken in IE because IE won't adhere to certain html standards, or wont follow those standards? For instance, if you view the code in IE it appears broken, but in Firefox or Opera it doesn't. Back to the original post; is it possible you could just use a different Internet Browser and then it wouldn't matter if xhtml was used? 

My server is blocking all IP addresses except Slovakia and Czech Republic, and I would like to log all other countries and then drop it. So my rules looks like this: 

Check if IP is whitelisted in ipset, then accept it. Check if user tries connect to port 22, then drop it. Check if user tries connect to port 80, then accept it. 

As you can see it will not install mysql server but mariadb-server-10.1 why? I want mysql not mariadb. Sources list: 

I need to block about 10 000 IP addresses in my firewall, I have all IP addresses in file, so I run this command from command line: 

I would like to ask you how to "secure" it against DDoS, I set limit, so it should be fine. But if someone will DDoS me, I would like to get all these IP addresses from DDoS attack, and I don't know if limit 5/s can log all attacker's IP addresses. I don't know what limit number is considered as safe, I don't want to log same IP addresses and packets multime times per second, rather I would like to log as much different IP addresses as possible. I hope you understand me. 

And it works, it inserts rules, but it is very slow, it inserts about 1 rule per second, is possible to make it faster? It is running on Debian 9 with 1 CPU core of Xeon (VPS). 

On my server is Debian 9 with Apache2, and quite often apache2 just stop working and I have to log into SSH and manually start it. So I looked into Apache2 error's log and I found lot of NULs, like on this screenshot: 

I have MariaDB server running on Debian 9. Problem is that if I run nothing shows, but MariaDB server is running, I can connect to it via command. MariaDB config: 

Problem is that if I go to it is ok, but if I go to it will show content of and not content of . If I disable first virtualhost config then I see content of , so it looks like "override" that , how can I solve it? 

But I would like to do that if user is whitelisted (1st rule), then don't accept it, but skip/redirect it to 3rd rule (skip 2nd rule), like on this picture (I know that if packet is ACCEPTED then it is done, this is only example, I don't know how to make that jump): 

So I would like to ask you, how can I set this "skipping" in chain. Subquestion: If it is possible, then is it possible to redirect it to another chain to specific rule too? Update: Real scenario 

I would like to ask you what is performance of iptables. Let's say that I whitelist and blacklist some IP addresses, I block about 10 000+ IP addresses, so every IP is like new rule. I don't know how fast it is, because let's say that someone DDoS me width bandwidth of some Gbps, can iptables handle it? CPU: 1 core of Intel ® Xeon® E5-2650L v4 And is possible to make iptables faster? For example that I would "bundle" all these IP addresses into 1 rule. 

because I have quite often these warnings and no problem with it (I know I have to fix it in future, but I have to solve this Apache2 crash now). 

As you can see, I whitelisted only Germany, if German's IP pass throught second rule, then I will check it for other rules, but I use whitelisted IPs too. So if some IP is whitelisted (mostly not German) then I don't want to check if it is German IP (because it would fail) instead that IP should jump into other rules (3rd row) and skip country checking. What about go to function? 

So I really don't know what to do, because I don't know why apache2 crashed. I don't think it is because of warning in 

One of the things we found out at my company in working with Netapp is that deduplication really only works well in a VM environment if you have your drives aligned. Which is a problem for us as we have a lot of Windows Server 2003 machines and none of the drives are aligned. Which means you barely recover around a fourth of the space possible if the drives are aligned correctly. We are being told though that once the drives are aligned correctly we should be able to recover 40-60% of our space back with dedup. 

If you are referring to computer systems that allow for open public Internet surfing, I would recommend following these links... $URL$ $URL$ The first will get you started downloading Boothbox. A Free Open Source Internet Kiosk. The second link is a post I wrote with a guide I wrote to help one work with Boothbox. My actual document is missing from my website, but I will try to correct it tonight. 

What I'm getting at, 90% of my servers have something like HP DL380 Gen7,8,9 or HP DL380 G7,8,9. That is standard names I'm used to. But a a few follow a name like HP DL380R07 or DL380R05 or something like that. The "R0" is throwing me off. And these product names dont have "Gen" or "G" in the name which is what I'm used to. Any help would be greatly appreciated! I'm hoping this is the right place to ask... 

So the problem is we have a device or host that needs to communicate on a specific VLAN. This VLAN is not new, it is running all throughout our environment and works fine. But the VLAN was recently configured on the switch in question, a Cisco 3750. The DHCP server is handing out addresses on that VLAN with no problem. I have verified the cable between the host and switch and tried multiple hosts, but none of them can communicate or get an address. I plugged my laptop into an empty port which had a different VLAN assigned and immediately got a DHCP address. When I changed that port to the same VLAN I'm having issues with I got the same problem. The laptop just sits there and tries to DHCP an address but nothing happens. I double checked the cores and their Layer 3 VLAN config and its fine too. Plus I figured the issue couldn't be with them because the VLAN works fine everywhere else it exists. So the only other thing I can think of is the switch, but the VLAN exists on the switch and seems to be configured correctly. The trunks appear to be configured just fine as well too. Anyone have any ideas? I'm lost on this one. 

This statement is confusing to me. We don't know anything about the address the OP gave us except the range it exists in, because the OP never said on what device it was found. We do not know if it is the address of a switch, a server, an AP, a computer, a printer, etc. So how you would know that from the small post from the OP wrote is beyond me. I agree it doesn't have to be the gateway and I have already mentioned this. As I already explained, when you look at most large companies (but this is Cisco's best practice and is usually applied to most businesses) you actually find that gateway addresses will be the last or first assignable address in a range. 4.100 would be in the middle and would make no sense to be a gateway address. While some network admins might assign it that way, keeping track of this would be cumbersome, especially in increasing network sizes. This becomes even more true when HSRP and such technologies are used which take up two address on each layer 3 interface and give out a third address for the gateway. Keeping track of hundreds of such gateways when HSRP is being used becomes very difficult if there isn't a system for assigning addresses. Think of a company that might have 100 different VLANs...