The spacing will be equal on all four sides of the terminal (not just at the bottom as you probably prefer) but it may be similar to what you are looking for. If you're familiar with Cygwin then you can use a Cygwin shell (instead of Windows' Command Prompt) by using the puttycyg patch. Here's a screendump showing puttycyg running a bash shell with a 60 pixel border. 

As far as I'm aware, ZFS doesn't support resizing but you can easily add additional disks or partitions to your ZFS pool using . In your case, create a partition in the unallocated space and then add it to the pool. The additional space will be available to all ZFS filesystems in the pool. Another option is to create a new 20GB (or larger) virtual disk and then use and to move your filesystem(s) to it. But if this is your boot volume, then the first suggestion will be much easier. 

Try and boot from a live CD image (eg. your Ubuntu install disc). If that works then it eliminates your current Ubuntu installation and probably points to hardware failure or a changed BIOS setting. 

You'll need to know whether your modules are registered or unbuffered and their rank. Then make sure you follow the board's memory configuration guidelines. Depending of the type of modules you have, they may be unsupported or you may need to change the slot/channel configuration. 

The file names in file F must be separated by the NUL character (byte value 0) instead of newlines, tabs or spaces. This is to correctly handle filenames that contain whitespace. 

Some numbers are displayed in exponential format if the column is too narrow and you can fix this by increasing the width of the column. However, very large numbers in Excel are stored in floating point format and cannot be represented in Excel exactly. You may be able to override their display using cell formatting but the true values will still be stored and processed using floating point arithmetic, with its inherent limitations. If you need to perform calculations with greater precision you need an application that supports arbitrary precision arithmetic. 

The same thing happened to me after downgrading from 4.x to 3.6.16. The re-install of FireFox didn't work for me, but I found something else that did. When the dialog comes up, if you look carefully you will notice that one of the add-ons will be slightly highlighted (it is very subtle). That is the problem one, for me it was RoboForm. Just uninstall and re-install that add-on and the dialog will stop appearing when you open FireFox. 

This seems like it would be obvious, but I can't find it anywhere on the screens provided when I log into my wireless router. Maybe I'm just missing something obvious here, but I thought I'd take the chance of looking stupid and ask the community anyway. Is there a simple way to see all the current devices connected to my wireless router? It is a LinkSys WRT54-G router if it matters. 

You might be right if all the updates to browsers were just bug fixes and tweaks to the original version. However, each new version adds more features which introduce more potential for bugs and security holes. Also, security and usability are often at opposite ends of a trade-off, and features sell more software than the lack of security issues. 

This seems like it should be so basic, but it apparently isn't very intuitive. The scenario: (1) I've inserted a table into a new blank MS-Word document. (2) I want to add some text outside and above the table. Problem: The table is butted right up against the top of the document and I can't move the cursor to a point before the table to insert any new text. I've found that you can do this by cutting the table to the clipboard, type the new text and paste the table back, but there just has to be a more straightforward way to put the cursor at a point before a table that is at the top of a document. 

MS Access is actually a combination of a rapid development UI tool and file system based relational database (JET). Pros: - Easy deployment, just copy the file out to the network and tell people the path to it. - Rapid prototyping and very good UI development tools for database type applications - Generally much cheaper to deploy, especially for small installations. Cons - Maintenance - You have to lock out all the users when you want to do DB compaction, repair or other maintenance. - As a result of using a file based DB, it is more prone to data corruption with a large number of users or with flaky network connections. - Although the number is debated, you are going to max out the number of users you can support with a single Access DB much sooner than with SQL. MS SQL Server is a Client-server relational database system, with no UI development tools built in. Pros: - Maintenance - Lots of tools for maintenance, can do most of it with users in DB. Thus, you get higher uptime. - Enterprise scale - it is designed to support a lot more users and scales better to handle them. Cons: - Expensive - For your 5 user app to keep track of a few hundred thousand items, it can be overkill. - More complex - All the extra features introduce a learning curve. - No built-in UI development tools - You will need another dev platform to build a front-end and (arguably) reporting. Actually, Access can work as a front end for SQL, but for a number of reasons DBAs tend to hate Access users connecting to their databases. Miscellany - Although you may hear otherwise, don't make the decision based on the size of the DB, make the call based on features and size of your user base. - Access actually is a pretty good UI tool for databases hosted in SQL Server. So the right answer might be "Both" depending on your needs. 

Use a script (batch file) to call your application and test the error code and conditionally re-execute it or exit. Then schedule the script instead of the application. 

I don't think this is possible when your pivot source is in the same workbook. For external data sources you can set to refresh every x minutes. 

ZFS pools are self-contained and can run independently of any settings on you SSD. You can even move your ZFS drives to a completely different OS, providing it supports the ZFS version. (I have successfully moved a 3 drive RAID-Z1 pool from OpenSolaris to FreeBSD.) Other comments: ZFS offers more than redundancy. It has other features that RAID 5 does not, such as checksums throughout the filesystems to ensure data integrity and snapshots. ZFS loves memory and will use as much as you care to give it. ECC memory is recommended but not required. I use ZFS for personal use. I used to run RAID-Z on three drives but now run four drives as a striped mirror and am much happier with the performance. Scrubbing times have been greatly reduced which means that a rebuild should also be faster. Of course, the trade off is reduced usable capacity. Regardless of what type of redundancy you choose, make sure you acquaint yourself of the options (and limitations) you have if you want to upgrade the capacity in future. And finally... Backup. Backup. Backup. 

You'll then be shown all the physical drives and partitions with mapped drive letters and other info. 

This will return the number of characters (bytes) that the compressed file would have been if it was written to disk. 

This format string is basically saying display an empty string if the cell contains a positive number, a negative number, 0 or text. Error values will still be shown. 

This defines the format for positives and another for negatives You could optionally provide a third format for zero value but if you don't specify it then zero will be formatted using the positive format. 

Edit: I was thinking of nested statements when I wrote this. can be nested but it also supports multiple inputs, so the following is perfectly acceptable: 

To elaborate on @RedGrittyBrick's solution which has a shortcoming when running the command unattended plus to suppress error output as intended and to find files recursively you might consider 

Immediately after spilling water on my Macbook (Late 2009 Unibody A1342) it went crazy and made mouse and keyboard input all by itself until I could turn it off. After replacing the topcase I'm still experiencing major problems though: on trying to enter my password almost all of the keys generate nothing or nothing but beeping. The hardware is ok: booting into Ubuntu the keyboard works as expected. Logging in into Snow Leopard with an external keyboard and running xev on the Mac shows that the keys are recognized correctly. Guessing the autarkic input messed up keyboard mapping or deleted some files, I don't have a clue what to do from here. Any help on further debugging actions or actual solutions to this one is very appreciated. 

The ctrl key of my MacBook 6,1, OS X 10.6.8, got stuck by a water hazard. It's recognized as permanently pressed by the system. Is there any way to tell the system that it is not? I'm thinking of a simple switch in memory or the like: can this be done and how? Follow ups: 

Disabling ctrl key by using KeyRemap4Macbook mostly solves the problem. However since the remapping is loaded after user login I cannot use the keyboard for typing the initial password on the login screen. Can you force the remapping to be loaded at another runlevel? So now I don't have a ctrl key and I tried using PCKeyboardHack to remap CapsLock to Ctrl_L. This appears not to work probably due to KeyRemap4Macbook overriding the CapsLock remap. Mapping it to Ctrl_R does not work as intended either: whenever pressing CapsLock it fires a CTRL_R event but you can't press any key combinations because the keydown state isn't held. 

This has something to do with some Linux fonts not working as 'Dialog Font' in Eclipse as described here. Just try out other fonts until it starts looking ok. 

There are a number of console type applications, e.g. ipconfig, that output information to the standard output. The problem is that if I create a windows shortcut to them it runs the command and closes the console window before I can read the output. I realize that I could create a batch file with a pause command and then make the shortcut go to that batch file, but I was wondering if there was any generic way I could configure a shortcut to a console/command-line type program to leave the window open until the user explicitly closes it. 

I have a wireless network in my home that consists of a 802.11g/b router connected directly to my broadband provider and several devices (Ipod, Xbox, Laptops, etc) that access the network over the wireless connection. For a couple of corners of my house I have a really weak and sometimes intermittent connection that I'd like to improve and am trying to determine the best/cheapest way to accomplish this. The question is this, with an 802.11n router do I get the benefit of the longer range when talking to an 802.11b device? It is well documented that I won't get the full 802.11n bandwidth, but I am only concerned about getting a few more bars at further distances. If this won't work, what is the best way to increase the reach of my wireless network with the constraint that the router can't move to another physical location. 

Another key reason I think it is so popular is that it is considered a "Green" way of operating your data center, because it has the potential to use less electricity. And Greenwashing is a big thing for corporate PR departments as of late. In a typical non-virtualized environment you you have build each server with excess capacity to handle the peak load, which means that you have a lot of extra horsepower suckling on a power outlet just in case everyone decides they need to kick off an expensive request at the same time. In a virtualized environment, multiple logical servers can share that excess capacity under the assumption that the logical servers co-located on a physical machine aren't all going to get maxed out simultaneously. A second reason it is gaining steam is that it is riding the coat-tails of cloud computing. Virtualized servers are a core technology that makes it possible to offer many of the features of cloud computing, that not-coincidentally mirror those of virtualization. Cloud computing is a hot trend right now and chances are that if you are putting servers in the cloud they are virtualized servers.