It seems to me like the script is running but not capturing the screenshot when run through windows task scheduler. The saved image is just one white page. Does anyone know why this is not working? 

Does anyone know of a tool to open a packet capture saved as a .bin file? That or how to convert it to pcap or something wireshark can open. I took a packet capture from a thin client and when I download it its a .bin file type. I have not been able to find out who to open it to view it. 

I have exchange 2010. If I go to $URL$ and send an email by entering an email address that exists on my exchange server in the "from" box and send it to my gmail address, My exchange server goes ahead and sends the email. Gmail blocks it because its spoofed. Here is the deliverable message I got in my inbox from Gmail. 

If I use this spoofing website to send an internal email, lets say from my co-worker to myself it arrives safely in my inbox. I have looked through my send and receive connectors and cannot find a way to stop this. 

I have a Domain Controller that for some reason beyond me has ADCS installed on it. The domain controller is a 2008 R2 server and needs to be demoted, but first I need to do one of two things. This same server also runs DHCP, NPS (RADIUS server),and other third party software. My Options (according to me) 1. Migrate ADCS to a different server (it would be a new machine with 2012 R2). $URL$ 2. Spin up an offline non-domain joined root CA and have a live domain joined issuing CA. I would then backup ADCS on the domain controller, revoke any issued certificates and remove the server roles. It would seem that for option 1 to work i need to migrate the computer name and IP as well. If I go with option 2, what steps can I take to mitigate the possible impact. Currently the CA has issued 9 certificates. However, only 3 have not expired, 2 of those expire in the coming week, the third one a year from now. What would be the best way to get ADCS off this domain controller? 

Unless someone has blocked outbound/destination ports to (specifically 8530) your clients should not have any problems checking for updates from your WSUS server. You may inadvertently be blocking the client connections on the WSUS server itself. Even if by default port 8530 is open, I would verify by testing the WSUS server for port 8530. You can use Putty or another telnet emulator to connect via telnet, just change the telnet port to 8530. If the connection is successful then and clients are unable to connect to and get updates from WSUS then you have other problems. Give this link a try WSUS Troubleshooting. 

Great. So this seems to be working in several cases (although I guess there may be more efficient solutions). So, how does this work? Here's the basic rundown for the "VAR_3" example... The first part - - returns the following output: 

I'm not really a user of Acronis Backup 12, but the following quote from Vasily Semyonov (Acronis Virtualization Program Manager) in the Acronis Forum seems to confirm that product version doesn't have a "classic" traditional GUI anymore, but only a web interface / web console (the bold emphasis is mine): $URL$ 

If I understand the question correctly, you want the "www" group to have 'read', 'write' and 'execute' privileges on the "/opt/apps" folder (directory) and subdirectories. In that case, use the command like this: 

Good. So it also works for single line cases! Does it work well if the string searched is NOT in the input? Let's try it for (that does NOT exist in the given example): 

You can see that the commit has the "Signed-off-by:" line if you run the "git log" command with the option: 

(note that the commit switch to sign off is lowercase "-s" and NOT uppercase "-S", as you typed in your question). After having done this, you can start doing your commits using your newly created "c" alias. Here's an example of creating and commiting a file called "test.txt" that will be signed off by the committer: 

Raymond Chen, from Microsoft, has written the following "blog post": Why does the Recycle Bin have different file system names on FAT and NTFS? $URL$ From that blog post, let me quote the section that seems to be more relevant to this effect: 

The IBM website has several articles about installing Linux in the "IBM System x3850 M2" model, specifically about installing RHEL 5 (Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5), RHEL 6, SLES 10 SP2 (Suse Linux Enterprise Server 10 Service Pack 2) and SLES 11. So, I guess that those Linux distributions, at least, are (or were) supported by IBM for that particular model. The articles are the following: IBM Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 5 - IBM System x3850 M2 (7141, 7144) $URL$ Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 6 - IBM System x3850 M2 and x3950 M2 (Type 7233, 7234) $URL$ Installing SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10 SP 2 - IBM System x3850 M2 (7233) and System x3950 M2 (7233) $URL$ Installing SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 11 - IBM System x3850 M2 and x3950 M2 (7141, 7144) $URL$ Regarding the keybind combinations to start the installation, it seems you may find them in the section 4 of the articles above. Let me quote here the "4.0 Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 6" section from $URL$ 

You can use the "split archive" functionality of "zip" itself using the "--split-size" option. From "zip" manpage (""): 

First of all, I knew about WMI - Windows Management Instrumentation - but I must admit I did NOT know about WMIC - WMI Command-Line :) I have found the following blog post that I think helps here: Rich's Blog - Get Process CPU Usage Using WMI $URL$ In that blog post, the author uses the Win32_PerfFormattedData_PerfProc_Process class to get the CPU usage of a process (in several ways). For instance, if the name of the running process is "iexplore" (Internet Explorer) then you would run: 

Alright I just had to prevail a little longer but I figured it out. I changed my for-each statement to the following: 

I have a powershell script to capture a screenshot. If Run it in powershell or ISE it runs fine, takes the screen capture without issues. When I schedule a task on windows Task Scheduler it just saves a blank image instead of the screen capture. Any ideas why? Script: 

So i realized that all the space between c:\users\ and Public was just white space. So i edited my list to remove all the white space after each username and after that it works. 

I have a script that scans a server for drives that contains shares. After that I need it to create a file screen from a template that is already created with the same script, that part works fine. Here is how I am getting a list of drives that have shares: 

But when I create an action to run my power shell script I cannot figure out how to add it to the template, or just a file screen. This is what I am using currently, how do i apply it to a template or file screen? 

I know this question is old but it helped me get to the correct solution. I solved this problem by ensuring i had the corresponding adml language file in the en-us folder. I would make sure you have the terminalserver.admx in your policydefinitions folder. 

I have been trying this many different ways.I get errors like "cannot validate argument on parameter 'Path'. The argument is null or empty. 

I have this foreach statement that goes through a list of usernames and puts each name in the path listed below, then it copies and pastes a file to the individual users startup folder. For some reason i get an error that a portion of the path was not found. Any ideas what the problem could be? 

I have a cisco asa 5505. The outside and inside IPs are private IPs so I do not want to NAT the inside IPs as they go out the Outside interface (there is a router upstream of the ASA 5505. Would I do static NATs? Or how would I pass traffic from the inside to the outside (like on a ping) without NATing the IP? Outside e0/0 VLAN 1000 IP: 192.168.0.6 255.255.255.248 Inside e0/1 VLAN 2 IP: 192.168.0.230 255.255.255.252 (this int has a Router downstream that i want to telnet into from the Internet 192.168.0.229/30) The Upstream router will have a 1:1 Nat mapping a public IP to the ip of the router downstream of the ASA5505. 

I am having trouble running my command to create a file screen for each drive that contains a share. I have to run this on a lot of servers, any ideas? Here is where i am at now: I can create a file screen if i manually enter the path in this first line. But I need to automate that, each serer will have different shares. 

The "" is for applying the sed command to the first line... And we want to NOT include that last line, so we pipe that output to the "head" command with the "" ("MINUS n") switch - specifically "" to exclude the last line: 

My question is the following: is there a way to see the RAID events history / log of the RAID internal controller (a "Smart Array P400")? I would like to be able to use "hpacucli" for that, but I can't find any related command in the Hpacucli Utility for Linux - All Commands Guide I may try to use other tools for this, if required (but not HP iLO - "Integrated Lights-Out" because I don't have that access), preferably avoiding any reboot. I have checked "/var/log/messages" but I haven't found any seemingly related entries there. 

Imagining your input is saved in a file called "test.txt", you can use "awk" with the following syntax: 

Here's a basic explanation of this awk command: : defines "|" (pipe symbol) as the field separator : only matches lines that start with "VAR_3" : prints the second field / column (that, in this case, contains the value that you want to print) UPDATE (Dec 3, 2015): So, the OP has added a clarifying comment, which leads to conclude that he wants the search to be multiline, considering the lines between two "tokens" as part of the value of the first token. Here's a revised version for the initial example, this time using the "sed" (2 times!) and "head" commands: 

So, that part basically matches everything between and the next ocurrence of . As we see, this part seems to be returning what we want... PLUS two things that we do NOT want: the "" in the first line -AND- the last line. So, we pipe this first output to another "sed" instruction that only applies to the first line, and we replace the string "" by nothing, effectively removing it: 

So, to create a split zip archive, you could do the following (the "" is the "recursive" switch to include subdirectories of the directory): 

I have just checked a Windows Server 2003 computer with disks formatted in NTFS and indeed there is a "RECYCLER" hidden directory / folder in C:\ and, under that "RECYCLER" directory, there are several (also) hidden sub-directories with names started by "S-" I hope this helps. 

Maybe you can do the following: have one open "Command Prompt" window where you run the "ftp command" and have another "Command Prompt" window where you run the query. I hope this helps. 

In a rack-mounted HP ProLiant DL380 G5 server, running Linux (RHEL - Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server - version 5.9, 64-bit): after a shutdown and power on, one of 4 hard disks of a Logical Drive using "RAID 1+0" started "Rebuilding". I was able to check the status using hpacucli ("HP Array Configuration Utility CLI") After a few hours, the rebuild was completed successfully (the previously defective hard drive was "physicaldrive 2I:1:2"):