besides event viewer.. there should be a memory dump file which can be a bit like a crash report If you were to bring up this screen ctrl..system..advanced system settings.. / startup and recovery..settings and you see it says the dump is in the file %systemroot%\memory.dmp You could check the time of it That said, I don't see that file on my computer. You can change that drop down menu to "small memory dump" 

Norton Ghost can. You use Ghost Explorer $URL$ No doubt acronis trueimage can (since many people prefer it to Ghost) Maybe the other ones you mention can too. Including freeware ones. 

There is a program called nc that can just listen on a port and output whatever is sent to it. You can run that with cygwin if you install cygwin. So, The program itself can change which port it listens on. and you can tell the program.. That's for servers, programs that listen on a port Programs that initiate a connection with the server, are called client programs. You always have a client and a server.. One program that listens (normally called the client) and one program that listens (normally called the server). Client and server can mean the client requests and the server replies.. and then if the one that replies is the client then you can get some funny terminology from some software about a server making a reverse connection.. to a client. But normally the one that initiates is called a client and the one that listens is called the server, and normally it's also the client that makes the requests and the server making the replies. e.g. your web browser is a client and it requests webpages from the web server at some remote IP. Clients , i.e. programs initiating connections, they get a random port number above 1024 If you open cmd.exe and run then you see a list of connections including ports. It shows local port and remote port for any connection. So look for the port numbers < 1024. Here we have a server listening on port 1234 on my computer (0.0.0.0 means any IP can connect.. though that could be stopped by a firewall, or NAPT router). And the other line look in the foreign address you see port 80.. that's my computer connecting to a web server The ports > 1023 are random ports The first 1024 ports ports 0-1023 are generally the ones that servers use. though sometimes people choose higher ports for servers, as a layer of security, to hide a little bit better to make detection a little bit harder from a hacker. Or out of a convention like 8080 for an internal web server on a LAN. 

So you need to specify the correct video and audio codecs. you can check them with mediainfo.exe from mediaarena.net very easy for a techie to use e.g. 

It's likely video memory. As that is limited. Based on this link on tomshardware forum, here, Windows 9X used to have "system resources" and hence it had its resource meter utility. Windows XP was a big improvement over 9X and did away or just didn't have, that limitation and so has no "system resource meter". Another post mentions something not relevant regarding the video card. It makes sense though for the issue to be Video Card related, specifically, to the memory on the video card, or memory in the integrated video. Video memory would be a particularly limited resource. Particularly on a laptop or with an old low end video card, and that does explain what i've seen. One can view total video card memory, (not sure about viewing video memory consumed). In XP you can view video memory, from control panel..display.. (/right click xp desktop..properties brings up same thing) then settings tab..advanced..adapter.. and it says "Memory Size: ..." In Windows 7 you can see there. (control panel..display.....) and get that screen you see in xp. Or use start..dxdiag One P4 2.8GHz 2GB RAM machine had integrated video, and video memory of 32MB!! (an example screenshot of the screen that shows how total video memory) An old laptop, had 1.5GHz RAM, and video memory of 128MB!! A new laptop, Core i5, upgradeable to 16GB RAM, has about 1600MB video card memory ! 

Yes, Time New Roman, I just did it. Courier might space it out too much. Also, highlight it and do format..paragraph, and make sure spacing and indentation are 0 and line spacing is single. Correcting my answer, I see your issue now. See my comment, create a textbox put the quote in there and move the textbox. Here is an example you can see the method with it The quote at the top line is done the traditional way. You'd want to delete it and use a textbox for it. The quote on the bottom line with a textbox, that's how you'd do it, that's a picture done in progress of doing it to show you the method. You would delete the quote you don't want from the textbox, make the quote however big you want, and move the textbox. And you double click the border of the textbox and make sure it has no fill and no border, then the textbox is seamless. Textboxes are very useful in Ms Word, very powerful. You can move them finely by clicking the border and using ctrl+arrow keys. 

Any attempt to drag something on from a network drive, fails (this doesn't matter even if you have a VBS file on a network drive you can still get it to run from the taskbar no problem) That's just a peculiarity worth knowing. 

OK so you would need to have an SSH server on port 1000 OK so the client program would be connecting to port 8888 and whatever it sends there will be forwarded to port 22(22 being the port commonly used for ssh). I guess if you were trying to tunnel ssh within ssh that might make sense, though I can't off the top of my head think of a need for that! 

UPDATE- This problem occurs when the doc/docx file is open over on a network drive/share, with windows file sharing. Is there a way that microsoft word can see that the computer wants to go into sleep mode and SAVE there and then. e.g. if I or somebody from the welcome screen put the computer into sleep mode(i'd rarely do that but if I did). Or if the battery went low and had to sleep or hibernate, then I want Word to Save immediately before that. Instead what happens is next time word opens it says it's has recovered files and it shows me autosaved ones which differ from the original. I have an option to save the recovered one, though I want to compare the two files as i'm not sure which is later and the differences. I don't know if I can easily just check the times straight away, but this time when it happened I wanted to compare the two. I chose the option to Save the recovered files, and instead of just saving, a SaveAs dialog box came up, which made me wonder if the autosaved one was older. 'cos if the autosaved one was newer it should've given me the option to just damn well save it. I combined the two files. Which was a hassle. I saved the autosaved one with SaveAs and the default puts the text AutoSave in the filename after. Then I compared the two word documents manually, made them the same, making each have what the other hand, and deleted the autosaved one. There would've been some duplication of text in the document doing that. I miht check the dates next time if it lets me. Ideal is if Ms Word didn't wet itself when the computer went into sleep mode, if Word could just save the files and not bother me with a list of files it 'recovered'. Is there any way to get it to do that? This is Ms Word 2013!!!! So not exactly old software ADDED I have continued to get the error. Here is a picture from Win7 and Ms Word 2013. (I think this one I saved again as a new file and merged with the original where necessary). 

A higher capacity hard drive won't make your computer slow down, but having a hard drive without much space, not enough space for paging, will reduce performance. You can connect an external hard drive to a desktop computer and backup to that(over the network), you won't knock that drive over. That's better than an external drive connected to your laptop where you knock it over. In the past I used to hear about people having smaller partitions so they could defrag quicker, and defragging would improve performance. But I don't tend to hear much nowadays about people defragging. Generally it's worth increasing RAM e.g. from 4GB-8GB, many people nowadays have 16GB! RAM is not expensive. But if you don't have much hard drive space, like you have 14GB HDD left. Your paging file in a worst case scenario might be 2*your RAM. Might be 1.5* your RAM. So with such limited HDD space, upgrading to 8GB RAM might not be a good move. But, if you find you are concerned about 20GB space, then your problem isn't so much the pagefile. Your problem is limited HDD space. It'd be a good idea to address your HDD space issue, then upgrade your RAM to 8GB.