I know this may be an obvious question, but have you verified that you are using the correct IP address to access the ASA? Are you connecting via a VLAN that has management access? Check the config for changes to these. 

The stsadm method works ok, but never felt very efficient to me. Disasters happen very rarely, but you should be backing up your Sharepoint daily, and don't want to be burdened by poor performing backups all the time. If you backup your databases, and any customisation files you have, then getting back up and running is more or less a matter of building a new Sharepoint server and SQL server, installing the customisations, then pointing Sharepoint at the config database. It should then pick up all the settings and content databases. The all singing all dancing way I prefer is to have virtualised Sharepoint servers, which you backup in entirety in addition to all your Sharepoint databases. You can then restore the VMs and databases, and get up and running in a very short period of time with minimum stress. It's really easy to document compared to other methods too. There are third party solutions for Sharepoint backup/restore that might provide more granular options, particulary when it comes to restoring individual items, but I'd be surprised if they provide much more benefit in a true disaster scenario. At the SQL side you may find something like Quest Litespeed backs up and restores your data more efficiently, which is of value. 

I'm recently started using monit to monitor the status of sshd on my CentOS 5.4 server. This works fine, but every so often monit reports that sshd is no longer running. This isn't true - I am still able to login to the server via ssh, however I note the following: 

If by any chance you have Nagios or Cacti installed there are a number of checks which will graph your DNS server including the number of requests, rates etc. Not worth installing either of those just for monitoring your DNS server, but if you already have it then either is a pretty good option. 

I have managed to fix this issue when running on Apache/Linux by creating a group (e.g. webserver) and adding the user apache runs as to that group. You can then change group for all files under your wordpress site as follows: 

Don't know if you have the functionality in Linux, but FreeBSD has dummynet, which is very flexible. An easy way of getting the functionality of this is to set up a m0n0wall server or device - basically a router/firewall with lots of very stable functionality. You can put your server behind this, and use m0n0wall to do all kinds of traffic shaping. Installing m0n0wall on a low end server (or even an old desktop) would get you a lot of what the high end network devices you list give. To support more rules etc, you would need a better hardware of course. The m0n0 docs talk about maximising throughput. I've not seen any tests confirming it, but the principles will probably be helpful to you. 

You could use a single robots.txt file stored somewhere on your web server, and redirect all requests to any site hosted on your IIS server for robots.txt to that file. That would be a change per site in IIS, but you may be able to do it programmatically with PowerShell. 

Better than that of course would be to drop traffic to all ports, then only accept the ones you need, leaving port 25 as one of the ones that is closed. 

If your ISP has told you they are blocking port 5060 and won't help you reconfigure your client to use VOIP (in which case they mean to block SIP) then you should vote with your feet and switch to an ISP that supports the functions you need. Otherwise you will just be playing whackamole with your ISP as they tighten their anti-SIP policy. But talk to them in case they aren't trying to block SIP - they might be able to help you. 

ISP ADSL ---- Cisco 877 Router ---- Cisco ASA 5505 I have the above connection. I'd like to avoid using NAT on the Cisco 837 router, and just put the ASA directly on the Internet. However, I have to use the 837 to connect to the ISP - the ASA doesn't have an ADSL interface. I know how to configure the ASA to handle the pppoe connection, but not how to configure the 837 to act as a bridge between ADSL and Ethernet. Is this what is called RFC1483 bridging? Will the following config allow the ASA to do all the pppoe negotiation, and leave the 877 doing nothing more than bridging ethernet and ADSL?: 

The setup you propose will work, as far as the ASA is concerned. I have had trouble getting a LinkSys Access Point to pass DHCP requests through to the ASA consistently - sometimes it worked, and sometimes it didn't. I ended up connecting the WAN port on the AP to the ASA, and using a different subnet for the WiFi network. Allowing access to the web interface of the AP via the WAN interface meant it could be configured remotely. 

Content in other pages is still stored in SQL Server, so unless Microsoft specifically designed it this way (anything seems possible with Sharepoint), I don't see why it would matter. I'd also be interested to know if it does. 

If you have any resources at all, I would strongly consider setting up this server separately from your personal PC - if possible use some sort of hosting service outside of your home network, as suggested by Joe Internet in the comments above. You'll learn a lot about how these things are done in the real world, and will not be opening up a hole to your personal systems. 

When would I use each, and how do they all relate to each other? I've looked at Microsoft's discussion of Information Architecture, but it doesn't join the dots. 

Ntop and Nagios are for different things. Ntop will help you analyse your network traffic in a variety of ways - e.g. what network devices are generating the most network traffic, what protocols are running across your network. Nagios is for monitoring lots of things (almost anything you can think of) across multiple devices, and then getting alerted when what is monitored reaches a threshold you specify. If you've read the ntop website and think this matches your needs, you don't need Nagios. Either product should be run on a dedicated server, unless your network is very small, in which case you might run it on another server that is used for management purposes. Don't put it on a server providing services (e.g. email, database) your users access. 

It isn't nice but putting a NAT router in between the ASA and your internal network will limit the number of hosts the ASA counts, since it will only count the NAT router, and nothing behind it as a host. The upgrade to a higher number isn't that expensive in my experience - probably worth paying that than dealing with the hassle of NATing your internal network. In my experience Cisco have taken a LONG time to issue upgrade keys - so make sure to place your order in good time. I used the NAT trick to get a remote (remote as in Kinshasa) network up and running when I found the 10 hosts issue during a site visit. That tided us over until Cisco got us the upgrade, and we could reconfigure the ASA. You might not have to use NAT - I think just having a routed subnet would probably work, but I haven't tried that. 

I need to set up server side rules (auto-replies for users who have left etc), and having to login as each user and open Outlook is a serious PITA. Also any time that I have to create any rules for users that haven't left, I currently need to change their password, login as them, then somehow notify them of the new password and get them to change it again (tricky, since they cannot now login with the old password!) I can open those users' mailboxes when running Outlook, and access the mailboxes via Outlook Web Access. I also have admin access to the Exchange 2003 server. Is there anyother way of doing this that is more admin friendly? 

Easy VPN is for ASA 5505 to act like a VPN client connecting to another ASA in another location, as an alternative to setting up Site to Site VPNs (which is less "Easy"). it isn't something your road warriors will use, unless they carry ASA 5505s around with them! Your clients could use the Cisco VPN client, or even Windows VPN client using L2TP over IPSEC. There is also an option to use SSL VPN (anyconnect) but that may require additional licensing. Of course, it is worth checking out Cisco's documentation on the ASA. I also found the Cisco Press book Cisco ASA All-in-One Firewall, IPS, Anti-X, and VPN Adaptive Security Appliance (ISBN 978-1-58705-819-6) very useful for figuring out the options and implementing things. 

I see what you are getting at, but I don't think OpenSSL is quite the tool for the job. You might want to look at Open Source Certificate Authority projects such as EJBCA which are more focussed on this functionality than OpenSSL, and have specific documentation you can use. I don't see a reason why the concept wouldn't work, since all you are doing is signing the subordinate CA's certificate. If you were paying a public CA to do this for you, you wouldn't necessarily know or care what flavour of server they were using. All you need to care about is: 

If you have a DNS server create an A record pointing your domain name at the ip address. If you don't have a DNS server, you can do this using Host files, but you will need to set this up on all your client machines, which is a drag. 

It ultimately depends on why you want the labels. For me the most important thing is so that when something needs plugging back in, you don't have to trace the cables with your fingers - impossible in some circumstances. Your scheme would facilitate that, although you probably want to include: 

I think the easiest way to achieve what you want would be to connect your Access Points outside the ASA, or in some sort of DMZ. Then you are not trying to do something too different from the norm - e.g. give VPN access to clients outside the secure network, while keeping untrusted clients out. 

Maybe your server is compromised and is sending out spam. The CBL will tell you why you were listed from a link at the URL you posted - what do they say? Take a look at the headers of the last time a message made it through. This may give you an idea of how the mailserver you are receiving the mail through is treating it, and may give you some further hints as to what is marking it as spam. 

Do you really need to upgrade to 5.1? If this is part of a cluster, just take it out of the cluster and do a fresh install. If your VMs are stored on different storage (partition or SAN) then if you aren't worried about uptime, then you can just install 5.1 over the top of 4.1 and then configure the Host and add the VMs from the untouched storage. If this is a standalone machine, do you need 5.1 at all - do you need any features or bug fixes? 

You could use that to your advantage here - create a symlink from /allowed/ to your subdirectory under /test/ and use that URL to point to the directory. 

I've been challenged to "improve Skype performance" for calls within my organisation. Having read the Skype IT Administrators Guide I am wondering whether we might have a performance issue where the Skype Clients in a call are all on our WAN. The call is initiated by a Skype Client at our head office, and terminated on a Skype Client in a remote office connected via IPSEC VPN. Where this happens, I assume the trafficfrom Client A (encrypted by Skype) goes to our ASA 5510, where it is furtehr encrypted, sent to the remote ASA 5505 decrypted, then passed to Client B which decrypts the Skype encryption. Would the call quality benefit if the traffic didn't go over the VPN, but instead only relied on Skype's encryption? I imagine I could achieve this by setting up a SOCKS5 proxy in our HQ DMZ for Skype traffic. Then the traffic goes from Client A to Proxy, over the Skype relay network, then arrives at Cisco ASA 5505 as any other internet traffic, and then to Client B. Is there likely to be any performance benefit in doing this? If so, is there a way to do it that doesn't require a proxy? Has anyone else tackled this? 

I use PuTTY to SSH to my linux server. Today I noticed that when I enter a long command that goes beyond the right hand of the screen, instead of wrapping down to the next line, the text starts at the left of the screen on the same line, writing over the top of the characters. I can't figure out what might have changed to cause this. Can anyone give any pointers at what might cause this, and how to resolve? I have Auto wrap mode initially on ticked in PuTTY. I haven't made any changes to the PuTTY settings for this server, so at a loss why this stopped working correctly. 

Use for each of your vhost directives. Then specify the for each vhost directive. If you do that then you don't need to set up for each vhost, although that will work too. I'd be interested to see if anyone has any info on why one method is better than the other. You can also use if you want to give an alternative hostname for the same vhost. See $URL$ for more. 

If they install VMware tools on the client there will be some way of recognising it, for example, the presence of vmware-uninstall-tools.pl or the VMwareTools rpm. Failing that, you could also try installing VMware tools and see what happens... 

This seems like a good standard approach to take, and in conjunction with whizkids suggestion to use groups reduces administrative overhead. 

Basically, you get a lot more than processing and connectivity from your VPS than you might think. If you are trying to cut your costs, shop around and make sure you aren't over specifying for your needs. 

Check that Windows Firewall allows external connections from local IP addresses on your network to port 80. Opening ports on this page explains how to do that. 

Whether webroot are able to support either of these methods, I can't say, but theoretically I think a SaaS web filtering service could use either to deliver their service without having to roll out any config or executables to clients.