Go into the Power Options in Control Panel, then click on "Change Plan Settings" for your plan, then there should be an option "Change advanced power settings", then look under the "Hard Disk" and "USB Settings" areas. This one may not be the actual answer, but set your "Turn off Hard Disk after" to never (set 0), but I think the real one is to set "USB selective suspend settings" to "disabled" at least when plugged in...but maybe also when on battery if you are using it that way when it happens. 

This will probably tell you the most about your processor, other than the spec sheet. $URL$ With some processors, you can indeed turn Hyper-Threading on and off: It is usually in the BIOS. 

It is usually easiest to install the motherboard first (already having installed the processor and fan) and if there are any of those little white protectors that fit between the case and the board, install them. Connect the power cables. After that, I install things like the drives, optical and hard drives. Then install any PCI(x) cards. Then install the RAM. Then install the cables. 

OK, I had a really hard time finding "Server Properties", which is where what you are looking for exists. In the screenshots I saw, it was in the left column, but I eventually just found it in the "File" menu. It looks to be the same as for XP. So open , hold the ALT key down to expose the menu if not visible, and click on . From there, you can set your form as you always did. 

However, when you open the Recycle Bin icon on your desktop, you see a compilation of all the Recycler folders that are associated with your accounts for convenience. Based on your question below, what seems to happen is that when you delete something, the file does stay on the actual drive, as previously mentioned. What also happens is that the file is given a random name (my original file was test.txt, but renamed De4.txt on the drive when I searched at a command prompt), and that file is what is entered into that INFO2 file and is passed on to Explorer as you saw it. This is so you only need one Recycle bin can find deleted files, regardless of what drive you are on. What you REALLY see when you do a search a command line, shows that it is not really on both drives. Check out this screenshot: 

You can use one of the ISO's in Moab's comment, and install your correct version of Windows 7 (Home Premium, Pro, Ultimate). When you get to the key, you can try it there to see if it works, but if not, you will be able to install it without the key. Once installed, you can go to Computer>Properties>Change Product Key. The new media is not as particular as XP and before. I am not totally clear where you are in the process, but you should probably install Windows 7 first, as that is usually recommended. You can choose not to use the whole disk, and leave space for Linux right off the bat. 

You can just test by doing an ssh to sdf.org. I just did, and it asked for authentication. If not, you will have to ask your IT department to open port 22. 

If you have tried both pairs, and had not errors, clearly it is due to some slight difference in the hardware. I would use "System Information for Windows" and check out your memory timings, and then compare them with a search on the Internet for the specs for your RAM, both revisions. Then set your BIOS to match the timings to the slower spec. $URL$ (free version at bottom) 

If he does change the port he uses to one of the lower ports, simply block every IP address except yours from even getting on the Internet, and tell him it will stay that way until he stops downloading, at least when you are home. $URL$ (pages 39-42) 

You cannot if you have Windows 7 Home versions, but if you Have Windows 7 Pro or Ultimate, you can. Open gpedit.msc and go to: 

Microsoft Virtual PC: $URL$ You could also run the Microsoft Hyper-V Server 2008 R2 Hypervisor, but it does not run on the desktop: $URL$ 

You can add a "wireless access point" (not wireless switch), which would get its own IP on the network, and plug in directly to one of the ports on your router's switch, and you would have wireless. That said, a WAP costs roughly the same as a new router with wireless built in. 

All file accesses should now show in your Event Viewer>Windows Logs>Security node. To answer your question below: Obviously the amount of data being collected for every file access can be voluminous. If you have your accounts well password protected, most administrators just look for access failures to see if people are trying to access material they are not entitled to. If you are trying to monitor kids at home, probably better is to use the Parental Controls feature linked here. Otherwise you need to use the filter options in the right pane. 

The good news is that problems with this are extremely rare, except for loss of power, so doing it to a laptop actually makes it safer since it does have the battery to make sure that it does not lose power in the middle of the update. Simply make sure that battery is in and charged, and plugged in. It will not hurt if it is also in a UPS or surge protector to guard against power spikes. Other than that, there is nothing you can really do, but I also would not worry too much either. BIOS updates are pretty reliable. 

I cannot confirm this, but every now and then, when I try to delete a user profile, Windows will not let me delete the user.dat registry file, saying it is in use. I know that it is not, but I have always thought that it was just because the name was the same as the one in use for the current user, which is from a different location. I tend to think this is a similar situation. I would just format the drive and be done with it. If you really have doubts, you can search the registry for: 

I am pretty sure it will install now (I would try it now, and only do the following, if necessary), however, you may also opt to remove the file type of your program from "Designated File Types", and set "Trusted Publishers" to "Local computer administrators". This all assumes you are a local administrator on your computer. 

Open a blank workbook, and go to Page layout>Size and set it to A4. Then just save it to . You do not even need to change the extension, and mine was named the default "". Test by re-opening Excel. It worked perfectly for me. 

I would try this for each zone it may be used in (I will reference the Internet zone): Tools>Internet options>Security>Custom Level and scroll down to "ActiveX controls and plug-ins" area and lower the security for all of them as a test. If it fixes it, raise them one-by one until it breaks again, then turn that one setting back off. 

If it were a network drive, it would not touch the documents in "My documents", but I would make a backup of those just in case no matter where they are. 

Sorry the answer is no: $URL$ What makes you say it is damaged beyond repair? I may be able to guide you. Do you you have the install media? What service pack is the install media, and what service pack is the damaged install? 

Merging the drives will always be a problem with anything but data on one of them. That said, if you have partitioning software that would merge partitions, you probably have software that will allow you to resize them, and I recommend that you only rsize them. If you do not have such software, go here and try the free version: $URL$ 

Well, I think the answer is that, although it was not super expensive, you bought a much better video card (1GB DDR3 SDRAM), and that digital is definitely better than analog. It is really hard to answer your final question since we really can't see it, especially since other people could not detect the difference. I would think that it is just the differences listed above. 

If there any entries related to SQL, delete them. Try manually adding a credential for SQL. I have seen things about Vista (so I would assume Windows 7 too) stripping certain security tokens, and I could see this being bypassed at a command line. I would also try resetting the sa password in SQL, and change it right back. Then if the sa account is being used to start SQL Server, change the password in any SQL Server-related services, and restart them (I am trying to synchronize them to match). Related to this are these commands: 

Can you make a VM out of the whole computer without affecting the physical installation, and then use partitioning software to delete the Windows 7 from the VM, and set the XP partition as active? I know you said you don't have much space, but do it to an external drive temporarily. The other alternative is to use diskpart and set the XP as active temporarily, and make your VM, then set it back to the Windows 7 partition. $URL$ 

The linked answer is right, that you can't using batch files. I would create a batch file that runs a PowerShell script (PowerShell is here to stay at least for the foreseeable future). Here is the batch file: 

This is the tool you want. You say you don't want them to be able to open it, but if they can read it, they can open it. As it came up in your conversation, you can restrict their ability to execute files. $URL$ 

If you can access it from Windows XP, but not Windows 7, it sounds like it could be a firewall issue. The firewall in Windows 7 is more locked down (OK, relatively speaking). Turn off your firewall and test. If that works, post back, and I will help you figure out where to go from there. To answer your question 1 (not sure about 2): 

There is no real benefit to statics, except if you need to do NAT through your firewall to a static host, but no real problems either since your network is so small, it is easy to keep track of just a few static addresses (this was THE main pain in the butt for large organizations with static addressing in the distant past). I would keep a DHCP server so if you have friends visit, you can accomodate them. Fo anyone setting up static IP's, I would recommend a scheme. Here is the one I use for my corporate networks: 

The Startup folder. If you have a real scripts, like .BAT, .CMD, Powershell, Windows Script Host (WSH), VBScript, or Jscript you can use gpedit.msc to add them as a login/logoff script (see the screenshot, but under ). Under this key in the registry: 

Now that we know it is a corporate Exchange environment, I can tell you that there are no PST files, which is why you could not find it. It is all held in a central database on the Exchange server. Then they disabled your ability to export it locally using group policy. Talk to IT, and ask them if they have any problems with you having a PST copy. They could easily export it for you from the Exchange Management Shell. 

I don't know why it is like this since it has never made sense to me, but I believe I know what you are talking about, and the answer is that despite being able to add things, rename a directory, when you are in Windows Explorer, right-click on a directory, it ALWAYS says "read only". Forget the share for a moment, open your C-drive, and right click a directory/folder (pick a small one to test the following on)...it will say "Read-only". Uncheck "Read-only" and apply. Open it again...still "Read-only". It NEVER changes. The same thing on network/shared drives. It is one of those strange things that I have learned to ignore. 

I would do the following things: I would download the Microsoft Installer Cleanup Utility (Microsoft stopped supporting it for their products as they developed newer ways to uninstall Office completely, but it still works, and can help in situations like this one). Download it to a location, then right-click it and "Run as Administrator" to install it. With Windows 7, it does not know how to create a Startup group, so go to the directory. Run Msicuu.exe, and see if TuneUp is listed. If so, highlight it, and click "Remove". Also download and install CCleaner. Run the Registry cleaner and "Scan for Issues" and then "Fix selected issues". Run it again until there are no issues. Then try your install again. 

This does not jive 100% with what you are saying, but most of the problems I have when upgrading Office are due to the increased security settings introduced in Office 2007, which are the same for 2010. I would first try going to File>Options>Trust Center>Trust Center Settings, and lower all the settings, even if just as a test. You can then ratchet them back up and see what breaks what. Rule this common problem out first, and then see if you still have actual coding issues. 

The troubleshooting is not particularly difficult, but you do need the extra equipment, and that is the trick. Most times, you end up having to buy a part or two based on your best guess as to what is wrong, and just hope that it works. You can avoid this if you have access to a multimeter and can test the power supply. You can also test your battery too. With a multimeter, you would just test to make sure that the voltage output is what is listed on the adapter. If it is correct, it is probably not the adapter. Other than that, it does sound like it is probably the adapter itself, so I would start buy buying a replacement. The noise will go away, and hopefully, your battery will charge fully. If the battery does not charge fully, you will need to replace that too. 

If you liked the old Quick Launch area, you can use the Free Launch Bar (after installing, it is enabled/disabled by right-clicking the taskbar>Toobars): $URL$ You can then set up as many RDP icons as you want more easily. You will see in this picture, I have 4. This is a picture of Windows 7. 

The patch itself does not say that you can (see screenshot), however, sometimes they are undocumented at patch level. You can try running it with the switch. 

Despite your server being 64-bit, I assume you would still be using 32-bit flash player. You can go here to download it (just pick the right version): $URL$ P.S. I always find this page by Googling "troubleshoot flash player" (minus the quotes), and it is the first link. I can never seem to find it directly otherwise. This method does not require any permission. 

A System Restore to at least 3 weeks back, before the problem started. sfc /scannow from an elevated command prompt chkdsk /f from an elevated command prompt at least twice 

I doubt that it exists in the way you are describing since that is a VERY unusual combination. Unless you can find two separate tools, that can work simultaneously, like the refresher refreshing first, then the checker checking for changes, it probably will not work that way. That said, at least for eBay, there are auction sniping softwares out there. Google "auction software" or "auction software sniping" (both without quotes), and see what you might like. 

Other common keys to get into the BIOS are F1, F2, F10, or even F9. For HP, I would try F10 (most common for HP), then F1 first. 

As far as static goes, it is VERY important in my opinion. I once worked in a place that did not observe any static precautions while building PC's. They had approximately 20% fail in the first year. I later went out on my own, used the same parts, but with static protection, and had only 1% fail in the first year. It only take about 20 volts to do damage (it can be cumulative, and not cause immediate failure), but you can barely feel static that is 5000 volts, and 25,000 volts is a good shock on the carpeting. The best way to protect yourself is to have a static pad, connected to the frame of the plugged-in PC, with a wrist strap connected to you. It must be plugged in so the electricity can go to ground, and is very safe since internally, the components only run on +5V or +12V DC. Only if you go poking in the power supply do you risk serious injury. If you do not have a static pad, keep your forearm touching the frame as you install. Again, the PC must be plugged in, or have some other way you are grounding it. The pitfalls are mostly just read the manual and observe static precautions. You can POST it after you install the board and memory. In the end, nothing guarantees that you won't have a part that is DOA, but this can help minimize your worries.