For Windows 7, you need to find a Win7 driver for XHCI controller for Skylake 170 chipset. If Dell doesn't offer it, try other places as ASUS, Lenovo, MSI, etc. Maybe Intel itself. Or HP, they are conservative and might still support Win7. And check out this Tomshardware thread. 

If the particular USB2 mike doesn't work in USB 3.0 port, there must be some deeper problem at system/driver level. Technically, there is no need to disable USB 3.0 in order to get a USB2 device working. Electrically speaking, the legacy USB2 works in parallel with new USB3, over a separate set of legacy wires (D+, D-, sharing GND and VBUS with USB3). Therefore, when a USB2 device is plugged in, USB3 section will have no connect and no effect, and the communication should proceed over the legacy wires. However, the USB3 ports are under control of a different controller, xHCI, which also supports USB2 operations, but with a new xHCI driver. If the software for the old proprietary USB2 device is written without regard for system driver-device application interface and somehow expects specific old controller (EHCI), the simple disabling the xHCI controller might be of no help. BTW, disabling the USB3 functionality is as simple as going to Device Manager, and setting the eXtensible Host Controller (in USB section) to "disable". 

In Search, search for and then select: System (Control Panel) Click the Advanced system settings link. Click Environment Variables. In the section System Variables, find the PATH environment variable and select it. Click Edit. If the PATH environment variable does not exist, click New. In the Edit System Variable (or New System Variable) window, specify the value of the PATH environment variable. Click OK. Close all remaining windows by clicking OK. Reopen Command prompt window, and run your java code. 

Integration Components After the installation completes, you'll need to manually install the Integration Components (IC). (Same as the answer I provided on the other post you linked) You will need to get the IC from an older version of Hyper-V. I have them on my wordpress site here: $URL$ You can also download Hyper-V server from Microsoft and extract them, if you want them from a trusted source. The 2012R2 version of the IC should auto-install after you mount the ISO to the dvd drive and install all the necessary drivers. Unknown Devices You will see 2 unknown devices. Per Microsoft these are expected and can be ignored for OSes earlier than Windows Server 2012 R2. ($URL$ XP on Hyper-V is definitely achievable and generally trivial to install. One other note, audio will require you to use RDP to connect to XP and the host system must have working audio. 

You can also add few more speed and safety options like relatime,nodev and maybe nosuid,noexec. See man mount for available options. 

with the field taking almost always the form . Hence, you can inject your username and password this way: 

If you did not write it somewhere then you are unlikely to find it back. One of the very few way to get it is to consult ARP cache of computers connected on the same networks your laptop connected recently, and not restarted meanwhile. You must know that it is very hard to locate a computer given one of its MAC addresses since they are only visible on the same network the computer is currently connected to. You can not use it through the Internet. Another way could be to use online accounts your computer is configured to auto-join and track activity from there (online antivirus account if any, google connection logs if a google account is automatically used, maybe Microsoft Office 365 or Skype account, etc). You will then get public IP addresses the police can work with, or you can give those details to the police for it to ask any activity to the service provider if they don't give those data to end users. 

In my case I have two results being and and in fact the first is a dependency for the second which is the module to use. Load it this way (with root privileges): 

Check your firewall, it's likely blocking the ingress of your SSH and pings. Are you trying to connect to SSH via root? That's disabled by RH, you need to enable that. 

Click Options from the menu, then click Privacy. Under "History\Waterfox will:" click "remember history" and change it to "Use custom settings for history" The last checkbox is "Clear history when Waterfox closes." There is a settings button on the right of that option that lets you pick what you want to clear, one of the options is cookies. 

After you click in the search bar, the search tab is now selected. At the end of the search section is a "+more" command, clicking that will bring up a list of categories to add to the search. 

Do you have scaling enabled? If you right-click on the desktop, then click Display Settings, is Scaling and Layout set to 100%? If you've changed the scaling and haven't signed out, it can affect the display. Also, when you're not at the native resolution, you can see some blurring. 

I don't have experience with HP laptops, but with Dell laptops, if you're using an underpowered AC adapter, the system will throttle down, even with a full battery charge. Are you using the original AC Adapter? Do you have a 2nd AC adapter to try? It's possible that your AC Adapter isn't putting out the full amperage needed. 

Taking the example of a graphical interface on which you double-clic an executable icon, you have your executable forked from the process showing the icon you clicked on with basically this source code: 

From the graphical point of view, the recovery mode does not start graphical driver (named modules in Linux) which is often loaded by the non-started graphical service. Instead, it uses limited generic graphic console features which requires no specific module. Graphical modules are big and complex, and can crash your computer when they misbehave. If you experience issue with them, then you will love recovery mode which will let you fix it using a reliable environment. Recovery mode compares with optional kernel parameter , or whichever is the specific run level you want to join instead of the default one. 

feeds left-hand command with right counterpart. This has a meaning for the command, which prints its when no file name is given as argument. But this has no meaning for which always ignores its and only prints its arguments. 

Hence every users added to the group can raw read the hard drive which is what you actually need. The group name might vary on your system. Just add yourself to that group, logout/logon for this to take effect and give it another try without root privileges. 

Yes. The installation DVD/ISO needs to have SP3 slipstreamed in it. Older versions without SP3 won't install. 

repeat steps 3,4,5 for the remaining partitions until all 3 have been removed. Be very careful when selecting and deleting, make sure you've got the right disk and partition before you delete. If you select and delete the wrong partition you could lose your data some pics here: $URL$ 

list disk -- this shows all the disks select disk number to select the correct disk, probably disk 1 list partition -- this shows all 3 of your partitions select partition number -- to select one of the partitions delete partition -- removes the partition 

You can stay in in Windows with the following: $URL$ $URL$ You'll need to adjust the target partition so it expands to the full size of the drive, but it's pretty much install, and follow the wizard. 

In Windows diskpart should be able to delete these. It's a command line prompt you run as administrator. You need to launch and elevated command prompt and run diskpart. See: $URL$ In diskpart: 

There is no WPS Pin, you need to add a password. On the printer, press Menu. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Network, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Wi-Fi Direct, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Group Owner, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select On, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Manual, and then press OK. When Wi-Fi Direct On? appears, enable the Wi-Fi Direct network. The machine will display the SSID name and password for two minutes. Write down the network name (SSID) and password. You will need this information later. $URL$ Machine 

You should setup a proxy.pac. What is a proxy.pac This is a small Javascript file you can host on your computer. You feed your web browser network configuration with this file and its method will be called to route every URLs your browser need to access. This Javascript method can use a set of useful pre-define test functions and should return either: 

I don't think you need to run as root for your need. Let's have a look to your hard disk device file. It should looks like this: 

And git v1.8.2 fixes that new behavior for command which was still affected. The workarounds I can see of interest are: 

And you can read their time-stamps using a simple command. I think it will show creation time-stamps closed to deletion time. 

VLC supports both: general command-line options and per-MRL options. You can find details on VLC Wiki Command-line help: 

This has to do with run levels, which selects a set of auto-started services. Recovery mode (which usually selects either run level or ) starts a very minimal set of services. It does not start graphical, network or antivirus ones to cite a few. You can see a list of services installed on your system this way: 

cell is seen as a height printable-character long since only both escape characters are detected as non-printable. Hence C column is given seven unwanted padding spaces. 

Take a look at zerotier: $URL$ It's an always on VPN, no logins. You'll set up a network, authorize and add the two computers to it with your specific IP addresses, and then you've got essentially a LAN connection between the two. $URL$ 

There is an option to hide it. You can get the menu bar back by: Press the host key+HOME...default home key is the right ctrl. This will bring a pop-up menu, click View-->Menu Bar-->Show Menu Bar 

VirtualBox has this ability built into it's VirtualBox Additions. See: $URL$ Before sharing folders, you must install Guest Additions. For instructions on how to do this, see Guest Additions ($URL$ Creating a shared folder 

VMware Workstation and QEMU emulate & virtualize different hardware. Since XP is so old, it can rarely recover from a major subsystem change. First thing to try is removing the VMware Tools from the XP image while it's running in Workstation. This should remove any VMware specific drivers and may allow the system to boot. If that doesn't work, you will likely need to do a repair installation of XP. Boot from your XP CD-ROM, when you get to the setup screen, you want to press enter, not R. Follow the setup wizard, when you are prompted the second time to do a repair, press R, setup will detect the correct hardware and install the necessary drivers. Illustrated repair: $URL$ 

Yes you can. I finally successfully repaired my Win7 x64 computer few days ago and gave it a try this way: 

Note: sleep implementations on Linux usually supports such floating arguments, but if you need a portable solution then you should use an integer argument there which limit the pooling to one second tick, or no sleep at all which will use your cpu a lot. See also man pages of sleep and uniq. 

works on a per-character basis. It counts printable characters of each cells and then pads to align them (see code sources for v2.29). The problem you are facing is that your stream contains non-printable ANSI escape sequence embedding printable characters. then fails to compute the real cell minimal width of those cells and misaligns next cells of the same row. 

I have no OSX Sierra but and are usually builtins, not commands. If you miss them, then you shell does not provide them. Also, usually OSX fires a graphical message when attempting to use a command which is not yet installed but supported and tells you how to install it. You can still create your own fully-compatible shell functions to handle that. 

Since this is Javascript, you can of course create and use private helper functions and variables. Further reading You will find a bunch of documentation over the Internet. Among others: