To find this information, I went to IBM's Storage Accessories & Upgrades Shop and then added one of each into the cart. At the next screen, I clicked on the product description for each to get the screens shown below. Going this route, both drives were priced at $139.00 each. Based on the IBM Express Advantage portfolio webpage, it appears to me that the Express designation is just a marketing offering geared toward the midsized market. I wouldn't be surprised that they are offering the same products under different model numbers for different prices/markets. IBM Express 43W7598 Drive $URL$ IBM non-Express 39M4526 Drive $URL$ 

If your WinXP file/print server does not have RAID, I would recommend upgrading that system so that it does. However, RAID is not a replacement for backing up, so for creating a cost-effective mirror I would probably recommend using Norton Ghost. Given your configuration, I'm assuming that a more commercial buy and install solution, such as Norton's Ghost, would be a better fit for you. If that's a bad assumption on my part, then you might want to look at something like Bacula although that would require having a Linux system, as I believe that while Bacula does support Windows clients, the Bacula Director doesn't run on Windows. 

What is the correct size screw to use with the clip nuts or cage nuts that come with an IBM NetBay 19" rack? 

What are the steps required to configure static IP for an HP LaserJet 5000N printer using the front control panel? 

I'm looking for recommendations and reasons for having the BladeCenter Management Modules either on the same network as the Blades and other servers or on a separate network. Configuration Information 

Using the Linksys/Cisco RV082 router, is it necessary to create a Client to Gateway tunnel if all of the remote VPN users will be using Cisco's QuickVPN client, or can you simply configure the QuickVPN clients using the VPN Client Access page and not worry about creating a Client to Gateway tunnel? After looking at the RV082 Manual, the answer doesn't seem clear to me. Thanks. VPNClient $URL$ 

I'm trying to upgrade the firmware on a Linksys/Cisco RV082 router using Mac OS X and it's not working. The current firmware version is 1.1.6.14 (Jul 28 2005 18:12:59), and I've tried upgrading to both 1.3.98-tm (Jun 20 2008 18:37:29) and 2.0.0.19-tm (Feb 20 2009 15:15:20). Steps Taken to Try to Upgrade Firmware 

According to the IBM Rack Installation Instructions it appears that they use an M6 screw; however, I'm not certain what length. Note: I purchased some M6 x 3/4" screws with clip nuts and nylon washers from Rackmount Solutions (P/N HWM6-50-Clip). I would have preferred to find the combination hex and Phillips screw head that IBM uses by default, but for the price I'll sacrifice having the hex head and go with the Phillips only. Both the screws and clip nuts are functionally interchangeable with the hardware that originally came with the IBM NetBay 42U rack. Another possible option would be the Rack Rail Clip Nuts & Phillips Truss Head Rack Screws from Rack Release Systems. Screw Comparison $URL$ 

After trying various things, such as being directly connected to the RV082 instead of using wireless and disconnecting all other connections to the RV082 including the WAN connection to the Internet, I tried Firefox. Approximately two minutes after clicking "Firmware Upgrade Right Now", the RV082 rebooted and the firmware was updated. Looks like Safari was the culprit. 

I know that by default PostgreSQL listens on port 5432, but what is the command to actually determine PostgreSQL's port? Configuration: Ubuntu 9.10 with PostgreSQL 8.4 

We recently replaced our Cisco RV082 VPN routers with Netgate m1n1wall VPN routers. By running pfSense, we are able to configure: 

We have two buildings about 200 feet apart connected via SMC's outdoor wireless bridge. Currently, both buildings are on the same subnet with one DHCP server in the main building. This seemed to be the easiest way to setup our network so that clients in either building could have access to the Samba drive in the main building. However, one problem with this configuration is that if the wireless bridge link goes down, then the remote building no longer has a DHCP server. So I'm wondering if it would be better to have the two buildings setup on separate subnets. If I were to convert the two buildings to separate subnets, what configuration changes would I need to make in order for the clients in the remote building be able to have access to the Samba drive in the main building? Other, Potentially Pertinent Configuration Details 

I have other Ubuntu servers that I am able to successfully SSH into and Cyberduck is able to SFTP into. I've reviewed and am now at a loss as to what else to check. 

I'm wanting to configure our Linksys RV082 wired router as our primary DHCP server and then have our Linksys WRT54G wireless router as a secondary DHCP server. My plan is to have them serve different ranges of IPs as shown below (showing host portion only and using CIDR range of 10.10.100.0/24). The RV082 has the ability via its web based configuration to enter the static IPs even when acting as the DHCP server, which is what I want since we have the routers, servers, and printers configured with static IPs and the local clients configured with dynamic IPs. In addition to setting the static IP, for each entry the RV082 requires you to include the MAC address, name, and whether it's enabled (checkbox). In contrast, the WRT54G does not appear to have the ability to enter information about the static IPs. This leads me to my question: What's the purpose of setting the static IP entries in the RV082? IP Configuration 

What are some reasonable tests to assure ourselves that all the ports on a 24-port hub are working correctly? We have some Linksys EF2H24 ver 2 EtherFast® 10/100 24-port Auto-Sensing Hub that may have had some ports damaged in a lightning strike. I'm wanting to confirm that all ports are operational. Note: I'm taking the hubs out of service to perform the testing, so my main concerns are: 

Updated Answer The IBM x3550 Hard Drive Accessories Website shows that both the 43W7598 and the 39M4526 marketing part numbers have the same replacement part number of 39M4529 (see screenshot below). This appears to confirm that the drives are functionally the same and only differ from a marketing offering standpoint. IBM x3550 250GB HDDs $URL$ Original Answer The only difference that I could find was in the type of warranty service: 

Solution Update February 1, 2010: The problem appears to have been a hardware failure in the RV082, as QuickVPN is now working after replacing the RV082 with a new unit, identically configured. If I had to guess, I'd say that it was caused by a lightning strike, so I'm not blaming Linksys/Cisco for a defective unit. Background/Analysis We now have two sites each with their own RV082 providing a connection to the internet, so I have another test site. I am able to get QuickVPN to work on RV082 #2, so I think the problem is either: 

Is there a more secure/better way for setting a user's password non-interactively via a Python script? My current solution uses from a Fabric script. Another option would be to use Pexpect from within the Fabric script. Is my current method of setting the password a security concern? The potential security concern that I see is that the password is shown as clear-text on my local terminal as follows: . Since I only run the Fabric script from my laptop, I don't think this is a security issue, but I'm interested in other people's input. 

Current Configuration We have two sites that are connected via a gateway-to-gateway VPN tunnel using Cisco RV082 routers. We also have VPN access using QuickVPN for our Windows employees and PPTP for the few of us that run Mac OS X or Ubuntu Linux. The RV082's QuickVPN reliability and performance has always left a little to be desired. One of our RV082's is starting to act flakey, so I'm interested in purchasing a replacement. Question Should we buy another RV082, or is there a better solution to meet our desired configuration? At this point, I'm interested in only replacing one of the two RV082s, so if we did buy something else, it would have to be able to create a VPN tunnel with our remote site. Desired Configuration 

Proposed Configuration I'm proposing that we change our configuration as shown below. My thought is that this will limit the RV082 to only seeing internet bound traffic with the exception of providing DHCP to the dynamic clients; however, I wouldn't expect that to be much of a performance impact given that the client lease time is set to 24 hours. Thoughts? Concerns? Recommendations? One concern is that in building #2 & #3, the IP-based phones communicate with the TalkSwitch boxes at 10 Mbps half duplex. Will that adversely impact the performance of the rest of the network? 

A persistent IPsec VPN tunnel between two sites, each site contains a Netgate m1n1wall VPN router An IPsec-based VPN connections for our road warriors 

According to Cisco's support website, the answer is no. To confirm I have deleted all client to gateway tunnels and was able to successfully get QuickVPN to work. The following image from Cisco's support page shows one QuickVPN link active under the VPN Client Status and no tunnels defined under Tunnel Status: alt text $URL$ 

If you're asking which OSes can be successfully installed even though they are not supported by IBM, that's a different question and answer. I've had success installing Ubuntu on the following IBM systems: 

RV082 #1 has some setting configured incorrectly Update January 29, 2010: I went through every page on the RV082 web management and configured the two routers identically (except for things like static IP address of the WAN, which have to be different), so this doesn't appear to be the problem. RV082 #1 is damaged such that the VPN is not working even though internal routing is fine. (We know that we took a lightning strike last year, but that didn't seem to be at the same as when the QuickVPN stopped working.) Update February 1, 2010: Changed out the grey market RV082 #1 with a new RV082 configured exactly as the old one. QuickVPN is now working again. 

Background I've created a Python script using Fabric to configure a freshly built Slicehost Ubuntu slice. In case you're not familiar with Fabric, it uses Paramiko, a Python SSH2 client, to provide remote access "for application deployment or systems administration tasks." One of the first things I have the Fabric script do is to create a new admin user and set their password. Unlike Pexpect, Fabric cannot handle interactive commands on the remote system, so I need to set the user's password non-interactively. At present, I'm using the command, which reads the username and password as clear-text. Current Code 

You could purchase one Netgate m1n1wall and configure it to create a persistent OpenVPN tunnel with your AWS EC2 VPS and you could configure an IPsec mobile connection for your iPads and other client systems. Netgate m1n1wall Configuration 

Anyone know why users who were able to access the VPN on a Linksys RV082 router via the QuickVPN client would no longer work? Below is a screen shot of the error message that users are receiving. We've tried this with three different users, and we've confirmed user names and passwords. Changes that may have impacted QuickVPN to no longer work 

Logged into the RV082's Web Management site using Safari Navigated to System Management -> Firmware Upgrade Select "Choose File" and select the desired firmware file Select "Firmware Upgrade Right Now" Waited for over 10 minutes without success 

Current Configuration The diagram below shows our current network architecture. All connections are running at 100 Mbps full duplex with the exception of the TalkSwitch phone systems which run at 10 Mbs half duplex (upper right-hand corner of diagram). The TalkSwitch boxes each provide 8 analog and 8 IP-based phone connections, so we can have a total of 16 analog and 16 IP-based phones. Note: The four HP ProCurve 2524 managed switches are not configured with separate VLANs. I'm concerned about the performance impact of having both switches, both TalkSwitch boxes, and the wireless bridge connected to our RV082 VPN router in our HQ. 

I'm receiving the following error when trying to connect via Cyberduck SFTP to an Ubuntu 9.10 server that I am able to successfully ssh into: 

Is there a way to install Windows XP on an IBM x335 server? When I boot from CD-ROM with the Windows XP installation disk, the screen is just blank. Initial research indicates this may be due to the SCSI controller. I'll update as I find out more. Purpose We need a license server for both Pspice and SolidWorks. Currently, our Pspice server is an IBM x3800 running Win2k with a dongle on the parallel port. The SolidWorks server is currently a Mac Mini running Windows 7 with a USB dongle. I'd like to consolidate these two license servers onto a single piece of hardware. I have an x335 available, which has the required USB port and a PCI card can provide the parallel port. The SolidWorks server must be running WinXP or newer, hence the requirement. If the parallel port and the USB ports can be properly seen by the Pspice and SolidWorks servers, respectively, when using virtualization, then one option is to install WinXP inside of Ubuntu server. Update on March 24, 2011 I tried installing WinXP bare-metal onto the x335, but I was not successful. I'll admit that I quickly reached my threshold and simply bought a 1U SuperMicro system that had the required parallel and USB ports. I did find a discussion on IBM DeveloperWorks about how to Install Windows XP on x3250 M2 4194. The last post in that thread states that the process described works on x335s as well. The process basically involves creating an unattended installation disk that includes the required LSI integrated SCSI adapter. I created an unattended installation disk, but I don't think I did it correctly as it didn't work. What did work for me was to install WinXP inside VirtualBox running on Ubuntu. However, that seemed a little too convoluted, so for $100 I bought the 1U SuperMicro based system. Hardware Configuration 

We send files to clients using Basecamp—a web-based project collaboration tool. For $49/mo, you get 35 projects and 15GB of storage. We chose this solution because we needed to track milestones and actions in addition to being able to share files with clients. While this is a very different approach from hosting your own ftp server, which is what we did previously, we have found this to be a cost-effective and client-friendly solution. Clients receive an email with instructions for logging into the Basecamp project that we've invited them to, and then they can download files at will. Disclaimer: I am not an employee of, or compensated, by 37signals—the creator of Basecamp. 

Press the MENU button until HP MIO 1 (or 2) , or HP EIO 1 (or 2) appears. Press the ITEM button until CFG NETWORK = NO appears. Press the PLUS or VALUE button until CFG NETWORK = YES appears. NOTE: The CFG NETWORK = XXX (XXX being YES or NO) is a toggle, not a permanent setting. Changing it to YES allows the settings to be changed at that time . It will appear as CFG NETWORK = NO each time this menu is accessed. Press SELECT or RESUME. Press ITEM repeatedly until CFG TCP/IP = NO appears. Press the PLUS or VALUE button until CFG TCP/IP = YES appears. NOTE: The CFG TCP/IP = XXX (XXX being YES or NO) is a toggle, not a permanent setting. Changing it to YES allows the settings to be changed at that time . It will appear as CFG TCP/IP = NO each time this menu is accessed. Press SELECT or RESUME . Press the ITEM repeatedly until BOOTP = YES* appears. Press the PLUS or VALUE button until BOOTP = NO appears. NOTE: When using BootP or DHCP, keep the setting BOOTP = YES *. The BootP or DHCP server will configure the TCP/IP parameters on the HP Jetdirect. No other TCP/IP configuring is necessary. Press SELECT or RESUME . The following two steps apply to the HP Jetdirect 610n cards only: a. DHCP=YES appears. b. Press the PLUS or VALUE button until DHCP = NO appears. NOTE: When using DHCP, keep the setting DHCP = YES *. The DHCP server will configure the TCP/IP parameters on the HP Jetdirect. No other TCP/IP configuring is necessary. Press SELECT or RESUME . Press ITEM until IP BYTE 1 = (value*) appears. Press the PLUS or VALUE button, until the desired value of the first byte of the IP address appears. By pressing and holding the PLUS or VALUE button, the value will scroll rapidly (HP LaserJet 4000, 5000, and 8000 printers have a MINUS button to decrease the value). Press SELECT or RESUME to save the value. Press ITEM to continue. Repeat Steps 11-13 to configure the remaining bytes of the IP address. Repeat Steps 11-13 to configure the subnet mask bytes (SM BYTE 1=), syslog server IP address (LG BYTE 1=), default gateway (GW BYTE 1=), and timeout (TIMEOUT=). Press ONLINE , GO or MENU . Print a self-test page to verify the IP settings. If the test page does not show the correct settings, power cycle the printer and reprint the test page.