And, the code below will copy everything in newstuff into oldstuff, and delete anything in oldstuff which is not in newstuff. 

It routes the traffic through hostB. (See $URL$ ) I presume it also gets the login credentials for both servers separately; but, I only have an older version right now, and can't test to be sure. 

Your script is most likely removing the directory, and not just the files which are there. So, when you have 'd into it, and the directory is removed, you do on a directory which does not actually exist. By and you move up and back into the (newly created) directory, and the files are there as you expect. The best alternative is instead of ing in and out of the directory, is to add the directory name to your command, and run it from the parent directory. So, instead of just . 

Have you checked your driver situation? MSI provides drivers here MSI Drivers. Your USB driver should be at this link from the manufacturer. 

This will append to the file: echo "some text" >> someFile.txt This will overwrite to the file: echo "some text" > someFile.txt This will append text from one file to another: cat someFile.txt >> someOtherFile.txt This will overwrite text from one file to another: cat someFile.txt > someOtherFile.txt 

Find where your root Enter "resize2fs /dev/root" to use all available space or "resize2fs /dev/root [sizeToExpandTo] to specify what to change it to that should do the trick. Take a look at the resize2fs man page for more info. 

Adjusting your BIOS settings is probably going to fix this. Try to get into your BIOS before it goes to the grub rescue prompt by mashing f8 or DEL or f2 or maybe f12 (depends on your machine) after you reboot. It may take a couple tries, just keep restarting/mashing until you get in there. Then look for something along the lines of "boot priority" and move your DVD drive to the top of the list. Hit f10 to save and exit and BIOS should pass control to your Vista disk. 

It might be spotlight-related, as you mentioned. Assuming your mail accounts are IMAP, then one thing to try is to quit Mail. In your ~/Library/Mail/ folder, there is a file "Envelope Index". Move that file to a safe place (like, your Desktop), and restart mail. You will probably see a "welcome" screen, and then Mail will go through your messages. After the main Mail window finally appears, it might be slow for a while, as Spotlight will again re-index the messages; but, not as slow as before. In general, I've found that this is a fairly reliable way to fix the problem you're having; and, have done it for several accounts at work. The "Envelope Index" file will be recreated; but, it should be a "cleaner" version. 

This will only recursively look though your folder recursively at the root you type into the code. I hope that gets you started. I don't understand the requirements for the rest of the question, however. 

In Windows I have found Cygwin to work great. Just do not download everything when you install packages as that will take up way too much memory. When using the installer run a search for "openssh" and you should be good to go. Also, if you go this route, 'ncurses' is also a must have. I tested emacs using cygwin's ssh and ctrl+a worked fine. 

Save the text below into a .reg file using notepad and double-click on it. Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00 [HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\Python.File\shell\Edit with IDLE\command] @="\"C:\Python34\pythonw.exe\" \"C:\Python34\Lib\idlelib\idle.pyw\" -e \"%1\"" [HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\Python.NoConFile\shell\Edit with IDLE\command] @="\"C:\Python34\pythonw.exe\" \"C:\Python34\Lib\idlelib\idle.pyw\" -e \"%1\"" If you are using Python27 change the "34"s above to "27"s. Restart your computer. 

This can happen sometimes if you've resized the Terminal window. That might be the answer to your first question; but, if you're seeing this for every command, even after opening a new Terminal window and not resizing it, it's unlikely to be related. (with a disclaimer that if it could also be related to the full-screen behavior in Mountain Lion) And, I don't know about the second part. None of command+k, ctrl+l, , or ever seem to work for me when I encounter similar issues. 

Instead of , you can invoke the application binary file directly (not the .app file). The following should work for your launchd. Note that Terminal will launch, run the script, and then exit. Depending on your Terminal.app preferences, the terminal window may disappear immediately, or just leave a dead window on the screen with the output of the script. 

You can right-click on the icons and remove all of them. The right side will collapse when they are all gone and you can drag the corner and set the size of the menu that you want. 

Try Boot Repair Disk. You can burn the image on a DVD or install unetbootin in Ubuntu to put it onto a usb (very easy). Boot Repair Download Link 

In Windows you can edit your system's environment variables by opening up the system properties window by navigating to Control Panel\System and Security\System --> and clicking on "Advanced system settings" in the left pane. Then click on "Environment Variables". My prefered method is to just do a start menu -- or metro screen search -- by typing "environment". You are usually given a choice of editing the "account" variables, or the "system's". Find the variable in question and edit/delete as you wish. Only do this if you are sure of the consequences. 

You can also which will show you updated and missing/extra files. If you include , it will also show you files in the destination which are not in the source. The is a "dry run", meaning nothing is actually done--just verbose reporting about what would be done if the was omitted. 

When the save dialog is open, Command + Shift + G will allow you to type the path you want to go to. It requires you to either know the full path (and type it in correctly), or have copied the full path to the clipboard. So, there's likely still some more work to be done in turning this into a simple workflow. 

If the data of the two files is expected to be exactly the same, you can get the MD5 checksum of each file in the second folder; sort the list; and for each image in the first folder, search for a matching checksum. On OSX, the command is "md5", but, in Linux it is md5sum. 

Here are a couple of examples taken from the cacls manual/help page. Grant full control to User "Dean" to all files and subdirectories: 

If you need to display all lines with the words "black" or "white" then get rid of the /v in your command. Try: findstr white File1.txt or findstr black File1.txt or findstr "black white" File1.txt The /V operand will print all lines that DO NOT contain your search string. Type findstr /? for more info on how to use findstr. 

Just press "n" repeatedly until "New York" pops up. Then press enter. Or tab to get to the next field. 

Backup your original /etc/network/interfaces file and try this one instead. This sets everything to static(unchanging). You will have to restart your interfaces with ifdown/ifup or just restart the computer. 

You can run iterations of the program in a loop; and divide the total time by the number of iterations: 

Using dscl, you can run this command to check a password on the localhost. If it returns nothing, the password was correct. 

If your makefile supports it, would be the easiest. Otherwise, you can simulate the install process with which will show you what was actually done by the install command (but, not doing it again). 

There is also a preference file and data in your folder, that you could move somewhere temporarily to see if it solved the problem. 

Your file has (CR+LF) line endings (likely, created in windows?), whereas most UNIX files only end in (LF). So, before grep sees the after the character, there is the that it has to match with the wildcard. 

Your PC is not accessing the printer directly through the wifi, instead, the traffic between your printer and PC goes through the router first. You do not need the wifi card for your PC at all and that is probably the reason you have experienced a slow down -- because your PC is using the wifi and not the ethernet connection. To get the printer working you can go to the Brother web site and enter your model number to get the printer drivers (programs that operate the printer) to install on your computer. Run the program and follow the prompts for a wireless setup of the printer. 

You can look at your file located at /etc/network/interfaces to find the default gateway. It is probably 192.168.0.1, but I can't be sure. The gateway is just your router's address. Type "cat /etc/network/interfaces" to see the info. Edit with root privileges (sudo) if you want to change it. Try This: 

and, restart. Up through 10.5, Apple published security configuration guides for their server software. This particular advice is from page 82: $URL$ (The manual says to remove the .kext, but, if you want to access the USB port again someday, it is a good file to keep around.) 

You can or, if you want, you could compile this code and run it after you run the command. It is less drastic than the killall command, although it requires the developer tools and C compiler to be installed. 

Another solution would be to use rsync. (Be careful with the trailing slashes. They are important). This will copy everything in newstuff into oldstuff. 

Note that neither of these commands will do anything to the files in ~/newstuff though. If you want to delete them, you'll have to do the command separately.