EDIT: I've tried to convert the Disk with "convert E: /fs:ntfs". As Keltari said. It gives the following output. (Would use pastebin here, not enough rep D: ) 

Update: my question has shifted a bit but I think it is still valid. It's just not limited to my drive, but my PC as a whole. It seems my drive get bad sectors as Yorik pointed out, when I run them through any formatting software, but CHKDSK won't fix them. With a healthy drive you can choose to format it to whatever filesystem you want. Not in my case. Preferably I'd like my partitions in NTFS file system, going with my Windows (I use Win10 Home x64 on a separate drive and volume with NTFS). FAT32 is not a valid option as it corrupts my data. I've gone through hours of pain waiting doing low level formatting with GParted. I've gone through with MS DiskPart ( commandwindows.com/diskpart.htm ) only to realise the drive and Volume simply won't format to NTFS file system (usually previewed as RAW in Disk Manager). I've started doing UBCD as suggested, I can't give up more days to this now. I need my PC for other stuff too... To summarize: 

Yes I wrote this almost by myself, just a little help from a online ShellCheck :) I wish to learn programming for real sometime... 

I guess can answer my own question now that the problem is solved on my end. Thanks everyone for helping me out, although none of your answers was what in the end helped me. You did find most of the possible causes, very helpful if anyone else find himself in this situation. My solution was: 

If you have a laptop and a desktop running Windows you're probably wisest to stick with the USB/VGA combo. If they're both Macs you will ned to be careful about the laptop's video out. With the larger older laptops it's usually standard DVI, but the Macbooks and iBooks need an adaptor to VGA or DVI. It then depends on what the desktop is and has. It sounds complicated, but you just need to check all the possible connections. There are adaptors PS/2 to USB (but not the other way about). Paul 

The F1 to F12 keys on the PC keyboard should do the same thing. I assume you have had no issues with substituting the "Windows" key for ⌘ key. If the F1 to F12 keys don't work, go to system preferences,keyboard & mouse, keyboard and make the choices from there, whether to use the F keys directly or with the fn key qualifier. Regards Paul 

Suspect an Apple update — has your father still got access to 1) the G5 MacOS 10.4 discs? 2) the original printer/scanner software discs? 3) a firewire connected hard disc big enough to backup his system? If yes to all so, use Carbon Copy Cloner© to make a bootable clone and then (and only after checking he can boot from the clone) delete from the original disk all references to HP software, both printing and scanning. Then do a re-install from the original CD offline. See if that works. If so, switch off automatic updates. I've had to do this with a clamshell iBook running OS10.3 Good luck Paul 

This may be a silly point, but how is you WLAN set up? Does your router assign IP addresses or are they fixed? The reason I ask is that if you used migration assistant fro one Powerbook to the other `nd you used fixed IP addresses you might have the same IP addresss for both laptops. Just a thought. Anyway for more help, I think we need more details 1) Exactly which computers? 2) Running which operating system(s)? 3) What router? 4) What configuration? 

I should also say that I've done this and CHKDSK :E /F (Sometimes with /F /V /R /X) on repeat. And here is the latest CHKDSK log. A few days later... (Happy New Year 2017) I've tried another typical HDD 1TB drive because I had no patience left. To my surprise the same thing happen to that drive!! I'm naturally starting too look for other factors like my motherboard or possibly my SSHD (SSD and HDD in one) that I run my Windows off. List of my specs without any broken drives and Optical drive only for UBCD: 

Shut down PC, unnecessary but I drain the mother so no lights was on. Disconnect all SATA cables Started BIOS and loaded Default settings. (You should prob. remember your current settings if something else stops working...) I then had to make sure my SATA configuration was set to ACHI mode, instead of IDE. Then it is a matter of luck. I have 5 SATA cables, 4 SATA contacts and 3 disk drives. So mix and match until you get it right. And finally while booting just let it do it's thing. Mine told me it was repairing and diagnosing the drive canceling often result in BSoD. 

I've solved this before but cannot find the solution at this time and Google just give the simple Yes or No selection we all know and love. I want my script to contain two functions: One for defaultYes and one defaultNo. My script contain multiple 10+ Yes or No questions. Whenever I meet [Y/n] or [y/N] I want to call the function. The important part of the script. Mostly need to fill in the gaps, but if you have a better solution go ahead!