Schemer is closing down, and I'm trying to preserve the text because there are many good ideas on the site. I'd like to get the text from within each of the links listed on the sitemap. Is there a way I can do this? HTTrack isn't working how I'd like it to. 

My computer is deathly slow so I'm reinstalling Windows 7. However, I'd like to know the best way to set up the file system. Previously, I just installed it and used it. I was told by a friend that I should have the OS on a separate partition and that I shouldn't be storing Steam files, etc. in the C:\ folder. Is there an optimal way to install Windows 7 and if so, how much space should I allocate and where do I put huge folders like Steam? 

Banshee on GNU/Linux machines. Fast, simple management of recorded material and podcasts in one place. Banshee is written in C# on the Mono platform using GNOME technologies (Gtk#, GStreamer, etc). It is free software, released under the MIT/X11 license. 

If the ISP provides day-by-day or hour-by-hour usage information perhaps you could try a period of time with no machines running and then several periods with one machine only but doing the normal work for that machine to see if you can identify whether the increase is on one of the machines rather than other(s). 

has a simpler interface for this type of purpose if is installed, the machine is running and the user is allowed to use the command. For example (check the exact syntax using or ), file or file will run the commands in the specified file in 53 minutes or 2 hours, respectively. can then be re-run at the start of the scheduled job with suitable (random or otherwise) start, count, and time-units. Edit As Arjan points out helpfully below, if you are using this for other than a toy application you need to think about issues such as what happens 

I was apparently using an older version of Mozilla as the browser within HTTrack. I changed the version to 4.0 and it worked fine. 

I'm trying to download the following site: $URL$ However, no matter what I try to do (get rid of the www, try other options than the "download website" one, etc) I keep getting a "HTTrack has detected that the current mirror is empty." error. Does anyone know how to resolve this? 

I have a SanDisk Cruzer that suddenly stopped being recognized today. It's two years old and has been through the washing machine a few times (though not recently) so it's entirely possible the hardware failed. What happens is this: I'll put it in the computer, the LED in the drive will turn on, and Windows will say that it doesn't recognize the USB. I've attempted to use recovery tools like Recova, but since it doesn't show up as an actual drive, they haven't found it. I've gone into Disk Management and it doesn't show up there, so I can't assign a drive letter. I've tried restarting, unplugging, reinstalling the drivers, but nothing has worked. Some of the files are pretty important; is there any inexpensive way to recover the data? I've been backing it up fairly regularly, so the only files I really need are from the last week or so, if that makes it any easier. 

Clearly, if you must receive the stream via the wireless driver then disabling it is not possible though I'm not clear from your question whether you can just disable autodiscovery and still successfully use the card to receive the stream. Whilst this is a workround it may be the best compromise until the driver is fixed, if it can be. As the Thesycon page points out: 

Work out where you first get 100% packet loss of ICMP pings. Try one or two pings to 127.0.0.1, your local external IP interface, your router (if any) or default gateway, ISP hosts (e.g. DNS server, mail server). Try (stop after 3 pings or 12 seconds) and let it finish by itself rather than ending prematurely as some ping, network stacks or networks can cause long delays on ping transmissions: patience can be helpful. [In particular, for Ubuntu, if you see long delays on sending pings (typically a 5s timeout when pinging by hostname), look at $URL$ on how the avahi daemon can introduce these delays.] Possible causes of ping loss: 

I recorded a segment (you'll probably have to turn your volume up) of the buzzing noise with my phone and performed a frequency analysis: 

If pwnat has no bugs, then this is no different security-wise from exposing sshd to the world on a server that isn't behind a NAT. However, glancing through the source code, pwnat seems kind of hacked together and I wouldn't rely on it being secure. The worse case scenario would be arbitrary code execution on A and B as the user who's running pwnat. 

pwnat on A is now listening on tcp://127.0.0.1:3022. pwnat on A sends an ICMP time exceeded packet to 104.16.111.208 whose payload matches the outgoing ICMP echo requests coming from NAT B. NAT B sees that the payload matches the outgoing ICMP echo requests and forwards the ICMP time exceeded packet to B. Note that the IP header for the ICMP time exceeded packet contains NAT A's IP, 151.101.193.69, as the source address. pwnat on B sends a UDP packet to udp://151.101.193.69:2022 with source port 2022. NAT B adds an entry in its table so in the future it will forward any UDP packets it receives from udp://151.101.193.69:2022 at udp://104.16.111.208:2022 to udp://192.168.2.10:2022. Note that many NATs will assign a different port on the external interface. If this is the case, pwnat doesn't work. pwnat on A sends a UDP packet to udp://104.16.111.208:2022 with source port 2022. NAT A adds an entry in its table so in the future it will forward any UDP packets it receives from udp://104.16.111.208:2022 at udp://151.101.193.69:2022 to udp://192.168.1.10:2022. NAT A receives the UDP packet that B sent, matches it in its table, and forwards it to A. NAT B receives the UDP packet that A sent, matches it in its table, and forwards it to B. A and B can now communicate freely over UDP. 

A simple approach, though not quite what you are looking for... Use a hex editor to create a file with the bytes in that you want to send (you mention gnome so you may already have ghex but any hex editor should be fine). For short hex sequences I usually include the hex as part of the name (e.g. test0x0100af0fe1). Then just redirect the content into , e.g.: 

One method is (assuming you have a working LaTeX installation) to compile the LaTeX diagram to produce a pdf output file (usually using ). This can then be opened using the vector graphics editor Inkscape. Inkscape can import a range of files, including pdf (using the poppler libraries) and can save them as SVG files. (Inkscape also provides command-line conversion capabilities but I don't know whether this is available on a Microsoft Windows system). 

If I run a command with a lot of output in tmux, but decide to cancel it with Ctrl-C, there's a 10-15 second lag before it stops. However, if I do the same thing outside of tmux, it stops immediately. Why is this, and is it fixable? In practice, this issue comes up when I'm doing on a large directory and my search isn't constrained enough. A workaround would be to pipe the result to first to make sure the output isn't too long, but that's just another step I'd like to avoid. 

pwnat on A, which is listening on tcp://127.0.0.1:3022, accepts the connection from ssh. pwnat on A sends a request to pwnat on B (via UDP) to open a tunnel to tcp://127.0.0.1:22. As this was listed as an allowed host/port pair when the pwnat on B was started, it makes the connection. The tunnel is now complete: 

for all the letters a-z and A-Z (@), digits 0 to 9 (ASCII 48-57), underscore and international letters (ASCII 192-255) 

USB peripheral switches are available from several suppliers (e.g. Maplin in the UK: $URL$ and manufacturers (e.g. ATEN). Some KVM switches also have USB peripheral switching capability (e.g. some ATEN models) -- this is in addition to supporting USB for the keyboard and mouse switching between PCs. You can also have a couple of small USB hubs (or just single USB extension connections) on the desktop and move the printer connector between these manually. I use this for connecting USB flash drives, for example. However, as with USB peripheral switches, it is your responsibility to make sure that moving from one computer to the other is done in a timely fashion that suits the host, the application and the peripheral, e.g. for a USB flash drive you should unmount the drive before unplugging or switching and you may need to follow a similar process for, for example, a USB-connected printer. Whether these would work well with your specific USB device and requirement is not certain but you may be able to get specific advice from the peripheral supplier or switch supplier or current users of the combination. I don't know of any of these that would automatically allow a peripheral to be shared between multiple hosts: for printing, a print server is a better solution unless you want to manually switch between computers each time the printer is needed elsewhere and the manual switching works reliably. 

I've been looking to develop an iOS app and don't have regular access to a Mac, nor can my computer run OSX. A friend of mine told me I'll need to write my program in XCode (which I'm aware I'll need access to in order to publish the app to the store) but I thought I could use something like Corona/Moai on a Windows computer and then just publish it with a Mac. Who is correct? 

I'm currently using Malwarebytes Pro but want to have Windows Defender on as well since MAMB isn't really an antivirus. They're supposed to be compatible but for some reason I can't turn on Windows Defender; I see the message "Your PC isn't being monitored because the app's service stopped. You should restart it now." When I visit the process list, I see that WinDefend is in the "Stopped" state, and when I turn it on it flashed on for less than a second before going back to "Stopped". I've uninstalled Malwarebytes and removed anything related to it I can find (ProgramData, registry entries, etc.) but I still can't turn on Defender and get a timeout error any time I try to enable it. I've never tried to install any other antivirus so it's not possible that any remnants are conflicting. Additionally, Windows Update fails to install any Defender-related updates. What can I do? I know I could just get a different AV but I'd like to get this working. 

I'm not sure I've entirely understood the question, mainly use Scribus 1.3.3 but occasionally 1.3.5, both on Ubuntu, so the differences in version and platform may outweigh any similarities but, FWIW, ... After creating the table it needs to be ungrouped. Text can then be added to individual cells by selecting the cell (e.g. click on the cell). Individual cells can also be resized by selecting the cell and using the frame handles as usual. A sequence of cells can be selected (select and shift-select each of the cells) and then manipulated together. This can, for example, resize or reposition a whole row or column. Similarly, a column or row of cells, after they are all selected, can be copied and pasted. The new column can have all its cells selected and then slid into position. Spanning can be achieved manually by deleting a cell then expanding a neighbour. However, this sounds just like what you don't want - a bunch of grouped text areas. Anything more complex I import a table constructed elsewhere, not least as I'm no expert in Scribus. 

The peak just to the right of the 100 Hz line is centered at 120 Hz, which is double the frequency of the AC power here. 

Any powered external speakers I connect to my laptop make a buzzing noise when my laptop is plugged in. I also have battery-powered noise-canceling headphones that make the buzzing if noise canceling is enabled. Quick summary: 

The buzzing is louder if my display brightness is low, and especially loud if the display is turned off. The buzzing happens with any power outlet: I've tested it in several buildings in two different cities. I have also tried plugging the speakers into a separate outlet from the laptop (one connected to a different circuit breaker), but the buzzing persists. This leads me to believe that the issue isn't due to some sort of ground loop (and this is supported by the fact that the buzzing happens with the battery-powered noise-canceling headphones). The volume of the buzzing does not change if I adjust the volume on either my computer or my speakers. The buzzing stops if my CPU is at 100%. For example, if I run two instances of (one for each CPU core), I don't hear anything out of the speakers.