So it appears to run the command, but I am still in my home directory! I must be missing something really simple here. How can I get this tiny script to actually cd the directory in powershell? 

In Firefox Firebug, under the tab, there is an option called "Disable Cache". I flip this on when doing redirect testing, and I have it flipped off otherwise. 

When I unplug a device, or plug a new one in, windows plays a specific alert sound. Is there a way to make windows display a popup notification showing the name of the device, in addition to the alert sound? Using Windows 7, would prefer a built-in method but a 3rd party utility is totally fine if it can accomplish it. 

In FF, I can move a tab to a new window by either dragging the tab out of the browser, or right clicking the "move to New window" option from the context menu. is there a shortcut key to move the current tab to a new window without dragging or using the context menu, or a way to set one up? Often, I like to look at 2 tabs side by side, so I drag one out, then hit WINDOWS KEY+→ to put the detached tab on the right, then ALT+TAB to tab back to the main window, then WINDOWS KEY+← to put the main window on the left. It would be great if I could do the whole process on the keyboard. I checked this documentation and did not find any shortcut key for detaching a tab: 

You can run iterations of the program in a loop; and divide the total time by the number of iterations: 

When the save dialog is open, Command + Shift + G will allow you to type the path you want to go to. It requires you to either know the full path (and type it in correctly), or have copied the full path to the clipboard. So, there's likely still some more work to be done in turning this into a simple workflow. 

It may be that the short tag is not supported. Try changing the file to start with as the first line? 

Using dscl, you can run this command to check a password on the localhost. If it returns nothing, the password was correct. 

Note that neither of these commands will do anything to the files in ~/newstuff though. If you want to delete them, you'll have to do the command separately. 

You are missing argument before the ssh code, and also, it should be before the source and destination. The following command should work (provided the permissions on the key file and enclosing directory are satisfactorily secured per the standard requirements of ssh) 

When I have my Samsung Galaxy 8 plugged into my computer, and I drag an .m4a file to it, it prompts if I want to just copy the file, or "convert and copy" the file since it thinks my MTP device may not be capable of playing an m4a. So I say yes, expecting an mp3, but I get an even less useful .wma file instead. How can I change the convert and copy to covert to mp3 instead of wma? See this related question which seeks to disable the dialog entirely. Disable prompt to convert videos copied to media device 

I have no idea what this means. For all customer's who want to install the latest operating system. I already installed Windows, I don't plan on installing a newer version on top of it...? Can you explain what this update actually does? Using Windows 7 SP1 

Why? I have an old flip phone and that is the only audio format it understands for non-midi ringtones. I realize that dedicated software exists to do this but it would be great if I could do it with ffmpeg since I use that for many other conversions as well. 

In 10.6 ~ 10.8, you can go to the system preference, then the tab. There is an Input source option to Allow a different one for each document, which should do what you want. It may depend on if the app allows it. For me, switching between terminal and safari for example, the setting worked. The setting has changed slightly in 10.9; but, that is pre-release software and can't be discussed here. 

And, the code below will copy everything in newstuff into oldstuff, and delete anything in oldstuff which is not in newstuff. 

Instead of , you can invoke the application binary file directly (not the .app file). The following should work for your launchd. Note that Terminal will launch, run the script, and then exit. Depending on your Terminal.app preferences, the terminal window may disappear immediately, or just leave a dead window on the screen with the output of the script. 

There is also a preference file and data in your folder, that you could move somewhere temporarily to see if it solved the problem. 

I just had a similar problem; but, instead of disappearing, the icons were corrupted, like what happens to the display when a graphics board fails (a few were disappeared). did not work, but, removing the icon cache (in ) and then brought everything back. You can get the path if you and replace at the end with (This is probably only valid for snow leopard, and the path and filename has changed in 10.7 or 10.8) 

Since yesterday I am getting constant notifications of threats Symantec is finding, except they are all in the quarantine folder. They are then "moved" to the quarantine folder, and then again I get notifications about the same threats. Is it safe to delete my quarantine folder? Moreover, is something seriously wrong with my machine? Using Windows 7 SP1, Symantec Endpoint Protection 12.1.2015.2015.105 

So, this may seem like a stupid question, but are all of the components on the exposed circuit board on a hard drive necessary? I ask this because of a weird situation I had with a hard drive. I got a used 360GB sata1 3.5inch Seagate drive from a friend. He was scrapping an old tower for parts, and he sold me the hard drive. One day, I had the drive hooked up to a Sata to USB adapter so I could format it. While it was connected, smoke started emanating from the board. Since I didn't have a technician on call, and I was not particularly invested in the well being of the hard drive, I did what seemed like a sensible thing at the time: I took a Flathead screwdriver, and pried off the part that was smoking. It was a little black square. After doing that, the hard drive stopped smoking, and actually continued to work. 4 years later, the drive is still going strong in an HTPC I made for my parents. I was under the impression that a circuit board was like a closed system, and frying/destroying any part of the board would destroy the whole thing. But that is clearly not the case here. How is that possible? Are not all of the components neccesary for the drive to function? Is my drive now operating in some diminished capacity, or is the loss of the smoking part completely inconsequential? 

and, restart. Up through 10.5, Apple published security configuration guides for their server software. This particular advice is from page 82: $URL$ (The manual says to remove the .kext, but, if you want to access the USB port again someday, it is a good file to keep around.) 

Another solution would be to use rsync. (Be careful with the trailing slashes. They are important). This will copy everything in newstuff into oldstuff. 

It routes the traffic through hostB. (See $URL$ ) I presume it also gets the login credentials for both servers separately; but, I only have an older version right now, and can't test to be sure. 

If your makefile supports it, would be the easiest. Otherwise, you can simulate the install process with which will show you what was actually done by the install command (but, not doing it again). 

I believe that Terminal.app will only expand in increments of one display line of text. The gap you are seeing is because there is not enough space to increase the height by another line of text. There is a third-party application, iTerm, which may behave differently but I haven't tried it. 

As far as I know I have the latest version of flash (I updated a couple days ago). For at least the last month I have noticed flash using far too much ram (between 200 and 500 MB). I notice it because my computer will stutter, and then it will resume fine after killing Flash's process. Its typically caused by a popunder ad with a lot of flash on it. Right now, it has spiked out of control. It is using 2 gigs of RAM. I have 7 tabs open and no popunders. It used to be that upgrading flash would fix this type of error, but it hasn't. I have to kill flash it seems like almost every half hour during a normal browsing session. Has anyone else seen a spike in Flash's usage? I have a decent machine (8 gb of ram, Samsung 840 SSD, and Intel 3840QM@2.7Ghz) and this makes firefox unusable and also slows down other programs. Is there a permanent solution to prevent flash from monopolizing my system during an average, modest browsing session? 

When I type in into the address bar It used to autocomplete/autofill to but now it autocompletes to the slack page. This is actually very frustrating since I hit that domain a zillion times a day and very rarely intend to hit the slack domain. Is there anyway to have FF default autocomplete to the plain domain without having to purge the slack domain from my history?