This will drop ALL communication no matter which process tried to start it. Then you can start playing with and to find, which process does the bad stuff on your precious machine: 

Cpanel is designed to mantain different users(customers) with their own virtual hosts, databases and FTP accounts. Therefor it creates system users and document root is in /home/, which is natural. Apache has default document root in /var/www, and if you don't have any special urges, you can let it there. Then you can make subdirectories for every virtual host, like this: 

Digest from : Archive old versions of log files adding a daily extension like YYYYMMDD instead of simply adding a number. 

Display stream on web Displaying the stream on web, which will work in most cases, is via flash player. I tried two products, which are free for non-commercial usage: JW Player and Flowplayer. I stayed with Flowplayer, but I don't remember the reason, maybe because of plugins (which I don't use:) ) or because of better documentation. How to display FLV stream from VLC in web page is covered here: Stream VLC to Website with asf and Flash Troubleshooting Be aware of many problems that WILL arise. First thing, as in everything, read. VLC is very chatty program, so it will tell you where the problem is. Could be problem with permissions to access the video/audio device, missing codecs, misspelled --sout parameters,... Learn to use to see if the data really flows thru network, etc. 

Which is the first part of VLC command to connect to webcam. For more details follow the mentioned HOWTO. Especially look at "video group" part and correct device path to /dev/video and /dev/audio. Those can be different on your laptop. Transcode video to FLV. I personally use FLV, since it is less CPU demanding. Transcode string I use is this: 

Check your Vagrant file and make sure you have setup the modules and manifests directory. Then search the puppet forge for the modules, for example apt, nodejs, ruby etc. Download them and install (unzip in the modules dir). Make sure to change the modules directory names. For example from to Take a look at the modules overview and usage guide it will tell you how to use a module. Also check out this tutorial about using vagrant with puppet. If you want to learn more about puppet take a look at the learning VM and the docs. 

You need to modify the root directory for your virtual host. Otherwise you will have a subdomain which will show exactly the same data as your main domain. For subdomain.domain.com you should set the of the subdomain to and for subdomain2.domain.com to etc. Check out the examples 

There is a chance that this space is reserved for root user. Please check out how much space is reserved for root,with: This will give you the block count reserved for root user, multiply it by the block size and you will get the size of reserved space (in bytes). You can modify the reserved space with: The number after is the percent of disk space which should be reserved. In this example it is 1%. 

If you connect via host names, you can remove the IP SAN's, otherwise add your logstash server IP address. 

If you connect using an IP address then your certificate must contain a matching IP SAN to pass validation with Go 1.3 and higher. This is not (yet?) mentioned in any README file or documentation but there are some issues ( #226 , #221 ) open at the project github repo. To permit IP address as the server name, the SSL cert must include IP address as a field. To solve that you can use following procedure for the creation of the SSL cert and key: 

I have a Debian 8 with Samba 4 as a AD domain member. The DC is Windows Server 2008. The shares are able to handle Windows permissions - I use IDMAP backend = rid, since I cannot add uidNumber and gidNumber to AD account record. I can display and set ACL permissions with and , but the R-W-X settings cannot set fine-grade Windows permissions (take ownership, read attributes, set permissions, full control...) So, is there a possibility to manage (or at least show) advanced Windows permissions of shared file/folder from Linux? The point is, I would like to make a script, which periodically checks all shared files, if they have the permissions I would like to have them. And alert, if something is wrong, so it would be some type of live documentation check of desired privileges. 

Anything except "connection timeout" will reveal, that you can connect to your laptop's stream. If you don't have public IP address, or you can't NAT port, you have to do it the other way around. You can SSH from laptop to server and remote forward your laptop port to server. The correct SSH command would be: 

Rsync protects date of creation. So you can rsync all files to your computer. Then run to select files older than 60 days and delete them. And upload them back via rsync. Or just delete them in destination. EDIT Result of rsync test on local directories: 

If you want powerful router, I would recommend Mikrotik ($URL$ It's not that easy to setup, since you have to know how subnetting, firewall and other related stuff works. But it will allow much better debugging of network in comparsion to DD-WRT (personal opinion!). And it fits to your use case, if providing of internet connection to bunch of flats in building is what you want to accomplish. I would every user (ethernet port) assign VLAN id - on switch port define PVID, which is default VLAN assigned to packet with no VLAN id. Port to router will be trunk of all VLANs and so the port on router. In router allow only connection between vlan and internet interface, so communication between users will be droped. And if some users would like to communicate between themselves (gaming, warezing) there is no problem to add rules to firewall. Last note about "two users communicates": You can merge them to one VLAN, so data will flow only thru switch, thus saving router upload bandwidth, OR they can stay in different VLANs and you will enable desired communication on firewall. Second approach allows better control, but consumes lot of router bandwidth, thus you should think about QoS. 

The value is bigger than the integer number you can put in to field. The in mysql is 4 bytes long so the maximum values are -2147483648 and 2147483647. You need to use instead which is 8 bytes long. See mysql documentation 

You can try to use to check which processes are using the network connections. List al network connections: List all the TCP or UDP connections: Processes listening on a particular port: List network files which are being used by a process: List the network files opened by the processes starting with ssh: 

You can use testdisk to recover your partition table. TestDisk is a free and open source data recovery utility it can: 

As far as I remember it is not possible to disable the ACL on ZFS. But you can try to remove any ACL config with "Removing all non-trivial ACEs from a file" Take a look at the ZFS ACL admin guide it's for Solaris but I guess that the ACL setup is the same. 

This is a story old as Unix and Linux systems, if you search on stackexchange for "du and df" you will find a lot of answers. 

This will give you the block count reserved for root user, multiply it by the block size and you will get the size of reserved space (in bytes). Second, most probably some file descriptors are still in use. That means that a file seems to be deleted but still it is in use and process writes to it. Although you don't see the file anymore on FS a process still is using the file. If you stop/kill the process or reboot the system, the used space will be released. You can look for deleted files with: 

Try for start simple DokuWiki (or any other wiki). If you have 10 servers it'll be sufficient. Also precisely setted Nagios can help with visualisation of network. 

You can check content of the hard drive with . Actual destroying data with mentioned above or with . 

Access on test.example.com and test.example.com:10522 will be treated in the same VirtualHost and both will be seen as port 80. But it's not clear from your question if it is what you want to accomplish. Not even what operating system you use. And what do you mean with "10522 is another webserver"? EDIT AFTER CLARIFICATION OF ANSWER: There can be at least two ways how to do it in Apache 

I manage VMware ESXi 4.0 server running mix of Windows virtual machines. I've installed VMware vSphere CLI in hope to pause/resume virtual machine and copy its image to NFS datastore. I've got CLI up and running, I can list datastores, registered machines, configuration and etc, but when i try to start machine with: 

I inherited non-activated Windows Server 2012 Standard. So I purchased retail version "OEM Win Svr Std 2012 R2 x64 CZ 1pk DVD 2CPU / 2VM" and tried to activate it with product key. With this key, I get an error "This key cannot be validated. Try a different one" (loosely translated, my system is Czech). And I am pretty sure, that I put in the right key. I cannot start validation over phone, command gives me only activation by key. Direct phone calls to Czech Microsoft gets me nowhere. At one occasion I got error "0x8007232b" which relates to $URL$ . As far as I understand, there could be broken KMS Client. I don't use activation via KMS Host in the infrastructure. Tried to google how to get rid of it, but didn't find out how. It isn't "Function", "Role" or software... Thanks for any help, Martin PS: Not that it should matter, but this system is virtual machine in KVM 

You would get much better results using puppet modules for apt, nodejs etc. take a look at puppet forge. Using exec is a bad idea, as you really need to take care of the idempotency on your own. For example instead of lines: 

As it is mentioned in the Apache Common Misconfigurations wiki site "...Because of the nature of SSL, host information isn't used when establishing an SSL connection. Apache will always use the certificate of the default virtual host, which is the first defined virtual host for name-based virtual hosts. While this doesn't mean that you won't ever be able to access the second virtual host, it does mean your users will always get a certificate mismatch warning when trying to access some.domain2.com..." And from the apache docs: "...The reason is that the SSL protocol is a separate layer which encapsulates the HTTP protocol. So the SSL session is a separate transaction, that takes place before the HTTP session has begun. The server receives an SSL request on IP address X and port Y (usually 443). Since the SSL request did not contain any Host: field, the server had no way to decide which SSL virtual host to use. Usually, it just used the first one it found which matched the port and IP address specified. ..." It is possible to have multiple SSL certs with one IP address with SNI (Server Name Indication) but only in the most recent versions of Apache and OpenSSL (with Apache v2.2.12 and OpenSSL v0.9.8j). In short: If you want to use different SSL certs for virtual hosts then you need to provide a different IP address for each of them or use SNI. 

You don't need to update all of them. Basically you need to know your HW, for example if you don't use a FC storage, you have no need to update the qlogic driver (most probably it's not even installed on your system). The other way around if you have an Intel network card then you need to upgrade the e1000 driver. You can check your HW from OS level with also will give you the information about modules loaded(used) by kernel. This should give you some hints about any drivers to update before hot fix installation. 

In the output of the command above, there are some cryptic values like CI,OI,I,FULL,... Great explanation of these values is here: $URL$ 

If chain file_get_contents -> mcrypt_encrypt -> mcrypt_decrypt -> file_put_contents doesn't work on PDF files (why shouldn't be), you can still treat it like a binary data, not text. Or, in more systematic way, use EncFS and create encrypted mount point and store documents there. 

I prefer Mikrotik RouterBoard. RB450G is powerful, easy to maintain and price is very decent. At home I use RB433AH with 3 miniPCI wireless cards. 

Hmm seems to me, that admin.api.frapi is the "default", because it's in the highest position in directory. Try to rename file default to 000-default. More info: nginx walks thru sites-enabled alphabetically. If there is no virtual host config for desired hostname (given from HTTP request), nginx takes the first file. 

Eventually found out myself. The Windows permissions are stored in "Extended attributes". The raw data of these attributes can be displayed by from Debian package : 

As in the laptop part, your VLC on server is bind to port 8082. Why 8082 and not 8081? 8081 is already taken by the SSH remote forward. Why we don't use transcode part as in first example? The video is already in the right format, so all we have to do is just stream it as-is. Testing. In both examples, you can test functionality by viewing streams via VLC. You can test your local stream: 

I'm not familiar with MS Exchange, but for me it would be more natural connect to server via IMAP and walk thru inbox directly. Because I don't think that running developed application on the same email server is good idea (which is mandatory for accessing files). And sharing folder with text emails to be accessible from network? Not a good idea either.. Regards, Martin.