I've been working on a PS script that will prompt me for several criteria, then create an Exchange/AD account. It's all going well, but I was thinking, is there a command that will create a new user similar to another user? Typically in our organization most users are setup very similar to others in their department. So if John Doe starts in Accounting, basically I would set him up similar to Jane Smith already in Accounting. He could have a slightly different title (Accountant I vs Accountant II), but other items like the floor he's on, the groups he's in in AD, etc would all be the same. Is there a PS (or otherwise) command that will say "Add-User -like Jane" or something where I could say, "create new user, keep -description -location -ADGroups the same as user Jane", then prompt for the remainder so I could fill it the rest in manually (telephone number, etc)? It may be a stretch, but it seems once that were done that would just make it that much quicker and efficient for me to set the person up. Any thoughts are welcome, thanks! 

I've read that it's fairly normal to have several ARP requests per second on the network, but was curious if someone could elaborate on the "why" I would have so many versus not? Over the course of 4 seconds I see about 40 arp requests, right about 10 per second, and all reqeusts seem to be from valid IPs on our network with a known server or PC. Is that many normal? If so, what is the purpose? I've never thought much of it thinking that since it wasn't several hundred a second it was "ok", but my boss recently looked at network monitor and saw them and said that at his previous job they didn't have that many requests, and the network was much larger than ours currently is. So I was just hoping someone could explain to me a bit more about this and if it's anything I should be concerend about or check more deeply into. I definitely want to avoid any network congestion that I can, to allow the network to run as smoothly as possible. Thanks in advance. 

On a system with rsync (which could be Windows), I would utilize this backup method. rsync can very easily produce fully functional incremental backups thanks to linking. 

I have enabled access logging for an AWS S3 bucket. Now I get log files delivered to my chosen destination. Each file has a name of the form YYYY-MM-DD-hh-mm-ss-guidguidguid with the time representing the last entry in the log file. Each file contains one or more lines. Each line represents one access. I am getting a lot of tiny log files. Most files contain just one line, some as many as five. I am accessing the bucket up to a few dozen times a minute, so I'm getting 3-20 new log files per minute. I have found mention online that these logs are normally delivered hourly. Have I overlooked an option somewhere that controls the delivery frequency or possibly thresholds that trigger delivery? 

$URL$ says that the node_name option also sets the client_name, but the formatting of the page makes me think that client_name might be a settable option somewhere. Can it be set differently or separately from node_name? 

I copy this configuration across many systems. Recently I copied it to a system running OpenSSH v5.3 and that entry is now an error: 

allows one user to run commands with the permissions of another user. By default, on most systems, some users are allowed to use sudo to run commands as root. requires a user's password to log in as that user, unless it is run by root. Thus, allows you to pretend to be root in order to log in as root without root's password. PS: is recommended over which is recommended over for most everyday purposes. 

I've read quite a bit online about this and thought I had found a solution, but it doesn't seem to be working like I would expect. I am wanting to get a user based on the username I input, then remove all groups that it is a member of. Basically the same thing as going into ADUC, selecting the user, selecting the Member Of tab, highlighting everything (except domain users of course) and selecting remove. Here's the command I'm trying to use: 

It seems to work, but not work... any suggestions would be greatly appreciated, this is the only thing holding me up from a pretty handy script! :) Thanks! 

We currently have a pretty simple setup. We have a 2008 Windows Server using DHCP for our clients. We have a remote site that has 10 people. The remote site currently get their IPs from the router, but we'd like for them to get their IP from our local DHCP server here. From what i've read this seems fairly straightforward. On the remote router turn on Ip-helper x.x.x.x to point to the DHCP server back here. I guess my concern is, how will the transition go? If i enable that right now, will the users who currently have an IP lease from the router drop and acquire a new one, or will it just allow those leases to expire, then once they do, it will then look at the new IP range from the local DHCP server here? Just curious if this is anything i need to worry about or is it really as simple as it seems, just set it and run. I've configured RRAS on my side as well per several online articles discussing how to set this up. Thanks for any insight you can give! 

I have a number of VMs that were based on the same template, each with about 2GB of storage. They all share read-only access to a 50GB volume (currently via NFS, but that is up for negotiation). I want to package up that template and volume so that a similar arrangement can be reproduced in another virtualized environment. Ideally that package would be about 52GB in size, and would allow another admin to create an environment with an arbitrary number of VMs. How should I tackle this? Can I accomplish this setup, or something similar, using OVF, or do I need to use something more proprietary like a vApp, or even a combination of multiple archives for different parts of the problem? 

The traditional solution to a problem like this is for a permanent user account to exist with precisely the access levels and permissions required by the program in question. Network services (like apache) often run as their own user, with privileges distinct from those of a normal interactive user and significantly less than root. If root is running the script in the first place, they won't need to provide a password to su to another user, even if that user has a password. 

There are IPs on my network that are not configured as fixed or floating in Neutron, they are simply claimed by an instance (e.g. via ). How do I get openstack (possibly via neutron-openvswitch-agent?) to tell me which instance, if any, has claimed a certain IP? Or produce a list of such IPs? 

I'm trying to automate the uninstall/install of Office. Removing 2007, installing 2010. I've downloaded the OCT and made changes as I needed. In there I can select, "Remove the following earlier versions of Microsoft Office Programs:" and you can select which to remove (default Remove All), or you can select the option "Default Setup behavior; earlier versions of installed programs are removed." Initially I tried the Default Option, but it gave me the below error. Then I tried manually selecting the second option but leaving them all as "Remove". Same results. I'm trying to get this done via group policy and have downladed and installed the ADM template as well, create a GPO for this OU to test in, etc. Using 2008 Server. I've seen others online with the same error, and instructions are typically "remove the old version first" or use a third party tool (Revo), which I have used in the past with success, but on an individual uninstall/install basis, not via GPO. My end result is for a laptop to boot up on a given day, references the GPO, if it has 2007 it uninstalles 2007 and installs 2010. Here is the error I'm getting, I'm sure it's nothing new as it's fairly prevelant online. 

This may be a somewhat simplified question, but I've read online quite a bit and have found very little on the comparison. We are a smaller shop, approximately 200 users. Currently our Exchange mailbox quotas are set at 400MB. For as long as I can remember we've had users archive email as they fill up their mailbox, so we have more .psts floating around than we would like. I've looked into the archiving feature of Exchange, and it looks nice, but I'm having a hard time determining why I would go that route (for the cost, would be about 12K for licensing) versus just having more hard drive space on the server and increasing everyone's mailbox limit to 10GB (for example). I would imagine having their primary mail on one server and archive on another would be ideal for balancing the load/stress on the system, but with our small shop we only have the one server/database and had planned on putting the archive database on the same server anyway. We plan to deploy DAG with a DR site in the near future as well. So, other than being able to give our legal department more capabilities with the discovery process, is there any benefits I'm not seeing here? Also, we are currently on Office 2007, from what I read a lot of features aren't usable unless you are running 2010, so that would be something else to take into consideration I suppose. But anyway, I would appreciate some thoughts on this from those who have used both ways and are more "in the know" than I am with regards to Exchange/archiving. :) Thanks for your input! 

I have a problem that has got me going round in circles. We have 14 Centos 6 AD integrated servers using Samba/Winbind with idmap_ad (security = ads, idmap backend = ad), this setup is running perfectly in 13 of them. Problem The problem lies with one server and one user. From the problem box you simply cannot resolve one particular user. This user resolves from all other servers. Results when trying to resolve on problem server: 

I do not want to give the group "Full Control" of the OU's as per other threads, this is not an adequate answer, I do not wish to give the group this much control. I should point out that the setup works perfectly as a domain admin for obvious reasons. Any help will be gratefully received. 

Attempted Resolutions I have stopped winbind and smb and cleared the winbind cache (winbindd_cache.tdb & winbindd_cidmap.tdb) the started them again - no joy I have started winbind with -n to perform straight lookups - no joy Unfortunately this is a production server so I can't get too drastic with it and I am unable to replicate the problem on any other server including a test server I built using the same configs. I'm fairly convinced it is not winbind after the above test but am at a loss as to why the user won't resolve. I can run and get the users SID then run and see: Key: IDMAP/SID2UID/S-1-5-21-746745685-249376194-4547331-1137 Timeout: Tue Apr 2 17:30:32 2013 Value: 1283 0 Key: IDMAP/UID2SID/12830 Timeout: Tue Apr 2 17:30:32 2013 Value: S-1-5-21-746745685-249376194-4547331 -1137 This shows the correct UID (12930) so the server can find him in AD and pull his Unix Attributes. I can run and it returns it successfully as I then tried and restarted smb and winbind, this did not fix it either. I still can't the user nor and therefore the user cannot log in nor access samba shares as the server can't resolve them. The infuriating thing is that all other users work including newly created ones! ... Can anyone help? I'm stuck! ... Basic details are: 

I'm in the process of setting up a server. Dell PE R510, 6 450GB HD. It came with all drives RAID 5'd, I'm wanting to wipe the configuration and set 0 and 1 as RAID 1, then 2-5 as RAID 5. When I go to setup RAID 1, it's asking me about which Caching Policy to use - Read/Write, Write only, Read only, and none. I'm not sure which to pick here...suggestions? This server will be used for Exchange 2010 and the RAID 1 drives will be used for the OS and Logs, and the server will be on a battery backup. Thanks in advance. 

On the phone screen I click Next. It says USB connection is detected, I click Skip (only option is Skip or Menu). It asks me for my extension or phone number. I put the number in that is assigned to me on the Lync Server (I set it to 5551212 and verified in AD that the number I put in is the same as the msRTCSIP-Line field. I click Next, then enter my PIN (I also reset my PIN to make sure it was valid). I click Sign in, it says "Contacting time server" for a bit, then "Connecting to Lync Server" for just a split second, then quickly an error flashes that says "Account used is not authorized, please contact your support team". Afterward it goes to the screen saying "An account matching this phone number cannot be found. Please contact your support team." I see looking at the menu/system information on the phone that it grabbed an IP address from the DHCP server (and verify it is shown in leases), the mask and GW/DNS are all set correctly. I did notice VLAN ID is set to 1...which we don't use, but I don't see a way to change that to the VLAN ID we do use on our network (if that is even relevant?). I can't access the phone via the web or ping it, but my computer can use the built-in switch to work through it just fine. On the Lync server I have ran the test command - 

We use knife-vsphere to deploy and configure new chef-managed servers in our virtual environments, but don't have any one-step solution for physical servers. Currently the process involves imaging a base OS onto a server, manually configuring the hostname and networking, installing Chef from a package, then letting the Chef client do the rest of the configuration and package installation. Are there any chef-based tools for installing the whole OS, or for imaging a physical drive? Or chef tools for doing the first steps of configuration on a freshly installed server, such as hostname and other chef-client-identifying information. 

There are no google hits for this error message. I am attempting to run chef-client on a server that has run it successfully in the past. I do not know what changed to produce this error. Here is the most verbose output I can think to include: 

Running a bash script involves running the bash interpreter (which will be a process), and that interpreter reading the file, then following the script inside the file. If a process owned by a user can read the file, then the user themselves can read the file. This leaves the only option being allowing the user to spawn a process owned by root, and having that root-owned process read your script. This can be accomplished in some distros using the setuid functionality, but it is generally considered a bad idea and can lead to security holes if the script has any bugs. 

We have several Linux servers that are AD integrated, all our DC's are Server 2008R2 running at 2003 DFL and FFL with MSSFU installed. I wish to delegate the population of the UNIX Attributes tab to an AD group for our Service Desk. I have delegated read, write and read all, write all permissions for all msSFU*** objects. When testing the permissions I open Users & Computers, open a user and switch to the UNIX Attributes tab. I then select the domain from the drop down which auto populates the rest of the fields, no problem. When I click apply I get the below error, but if I check the attributes themselves in Attribute editor they have populated and I can use the user in Linux. 

After a lot of searching around, it doesn't appear to be possible, I have attacked it in a different manner using PowerShell for updating normal AD accounts to Unix 'enables' accounts. 

So, we assumed Group Policy was to blame. On going through all GPO's there is use of User Rights Assignment, Restricted Group Access or Local Users and Groups Assignment. We have also gone through all login scripts and nothing is set there either. On checking the ADDS logs we can see that replication is working as it should. It's also worth mentioning that Site1-DC01 holds no FSMO roles nor is it a GC. We are stumped as to how it gets re-added. Can anyone point out what we're missing? 

Is there a way to make this configuration backwards compatible, so that the new option is used for newer clients and ignored for older clients? 

Your cron jobs are already logged via syslog. That data can be sent to a central server using syslogd, another standard service. $URL$ has details on how to set this up. 

I've encountered VM templates distributed as an OVF with a feature so that when you boot the VM for the first time you are prompted for configuration options such as hostname, IP address, root password, etc. What is used to do that? Is it specific to a certain virtualization environment, or to a specific client OS, or something else? 

I don't know of any package to do this, but here's a hacky idea. You could write a small wrapper script for [HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\exefile\shell\open\command] that logs the name of the binary being run, then fetch those logs later from each machine? It would only tell you what was launched directly by the user, not from other processes, and wouldn't tell you anything other than when it was run. 

My current project involves sending computers to clients that they will plug into their network. These computers fill the role of a web server, primarily. During a peak hour one of these servers will serve 10-20GB of mostly static content, and that content is updated locally or remotely with some frequency. Using consumer grade small form factor devices for this project is proving to be a bad idea due to failure rates and inconsistent hardware availability, and occasionally due to I/O and memory bottlenecks. What are some widespread standard options, in terms of form factor and manufacturers, for this sort of project? The OS for this device is CentOS 6, possibly 7 at some point in the future. Our current solution is approx 2"x8"x8". Slightly larger would be acceptable, but not as large as an ITX PC. We are handling backup and software security ourselves, and do not need hardware security features.