For an artist who won't be dealing directly with the code, what formats for 2d animation could they use that would be portable into an android game? In my particular case there are no collision requirements or anything, just need to be able to place the animation on screen at a specific point. 

If the files for the data are text as opposed to binary and the designers and players are modifying different areas you could try an SVN merge. 

You could allow combat commands as they come in and then add a time delay after commands based on how long they would take to execute. Dragonrealms uses this method for combat as well as many other actions, it is called Roundtime there. Heavier weapons get a greater time and you can reduce it, but not eliminate it with strength and agility. 

You don't have to use an existing game engine, but creating one from scratch can be a daunting Task. Right now your easier option is XNA and C# for the Xbox. XNA is free but to be able to publish your game you have to pay $99 per year fee to join microsoft's developer club. Unity3d is a game engine which also has an export to Wii option but you still need to be a licensed developer through nintendo and I don't know the costs involved with that. resources: Microsoft app Hub(XNA and such) Unity3d game engine 

Nolan Bushnell gave a keynote at SIEGE this past weekend and talked about a similar issue with the original pong. You don't have to do alot of complicated calculations. If you hit on towards the left portion of hte panel, send the ball left. Do the same for the right side. To start off with you can make the angle for the left and right sides 45 degrees. Once you finish the game you could if you want go back and make this more complicated but make this as simple as you can to begin with. 

I have a trick taking card game in which case there are occasions when the high card wins and occasions when the low card wins. Usually this is based on who lead the trick but some cards can change this mid hand. I had an arrow icon to indicate this with it pointing up while a high card will win and low while a low card would win and a sound when this was changed mid-round. This does not appear to be consistently conveying the desired message. What would be a better non-textual way to do so? I don't want to just put a bunch of text on screen because people would skip it and then get confused anyway or get annoyed by being made to read a bunch of text before playing. 

You probably want to run with one player(We'll call him/her the "Host") as a non authoritative server. You'll have all the other players communicate what they are doing on their end with our host, and the host will relay the messages to the other players. You probably also want to pass a list of what computers are connected to the hosting player so that if they drop a new host can be chosen somehow and start communicating with the remaining players. The documentation for smartfoxserver may help you out and/or you may end up wanting to use it for your game as well. You'd just embed it into your client game instead of having a separate client and server program. 

There are two projects we can work on. One would be a small free game to try and get our name out/build an audience. The second is our main idea for a first product. What are the pros and cons of building the small, simple, free game first instead of focusing that time/effort into the main money making project. 

You could upload the executable to google docs and share it with them from there, depending on the size. 

What are the common mistakes or oversights made when starting a new game studio? Please only one mistake or oversight per answer and if you can explain why it is an issue and what one should do to avoid falling into the mistake or recover if they've already made it. 

You can using this Master server can facilitate connecting to your server. Which would be most useful for fps or rts style games where players connect to each other to play a game. 

Another idea. Figure out your max expected population for the world, and how much money would be reasonable for that population. Put that much money in the world, but have most of it be mineral that must be mined up and converted into coins. Allow humanoid NPCs to set up mining and don't give out money for non-humanoid npcs when it doesn't make sense for them to have money anyway. You can allow a skinning system to get material out of npcs that don't give money that they could trade for money(doesn't have to be just skins, claws, teeth, poison glands, whatever valuable body part the animal might have). If player growth outpaces NPC mining's generation of money currency will deflate and encourage players to set up their own mines(gold rush?) until you eventually reach your theoretical max and things get balanced out. When players close their accounts you could convert the money they had back into mineral wealth in a new vein or extending an old vein. 

I don't think you could do exactly what you're talking about. You would need at least a short delay to tell if the player is just tapping or holding the button. Unless the animations for a powerful and weak attack start the same. Alternatively you could just have your weak attack followed by a stronger one if the button is held down. 

Creating resources endlessly is an issue but completely closed systems have their downfalls too. Take a look at Shattered World. Completely closed economy with player run shops, banks, etc. Monsters in the world were actually equipped by items purchased from player shops by the game. The hoarding instinct mentioned above killed the game though. There were taxes but there was also a player monarch who surprisingly also enjoyed hoarding of money. To make a closed system work you need to give the rich players incentives to spend their money. This is similar to the classic open economy with the caveat that rich players giving money to poor players helps this system while it does little for the open one. One interesting way to do this is to put in place systems to allow rich players to "hire" poorer ones out. One could require large reserves of stone to maintain their opulent castle, much more then they could mine on their own, and allow them to have an NPC reward money from their vaults to players who help supply stone for the keep. Depending on how other resources are handled in the game you may actually end up with large amounts of deflation with infinite veins etc mentioned before. 

First off my assumption of what grinding means is repetition of an uninteresting task that is required for advancement. so there are three things you can address here: