The transaction owner/application developer is responsible for minimizing the risks of deadlocks occurring, and to do that they should: 

I'm using Red Gate SQL Compare to create a release script based on differences between SVN and a database. This results in a script containing a bunch of table- and procedure-changes and it works fine. However, one thing puzzles me, it's using transaction isolation level serializable. I know what it does to dml-statements, but I'm not sure what it means for ddl. Can someone enlighten me, perhaps with an example? 

Identify threads that are not unkillable (e.g. a thread that is rolling back a transaction is unkillable). Find the thread with the lowest deadlock priority. Chose the one that is cheapest to roll back, i.e. the one that has done the least work so far. 

In SQL Server there is a separate thread that periodically (default 5 seconds, lower interval if a deadlock has just been detected) checks a list of waits for any cycles. I.e. it identifies the resource a thread is waiting for, then it finds the owner of that resource and recursively finds which resource that thread is in turn waiting for, thereby identifying threads that are waiting for each others resources. If a deadlock is found then a victim is chosen to be killed using this algorithm: 

Both statements would be evaluated to , thereby we have found out the individual values. Note: In the real world, we would iterate through all values from 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 and so on to the maximum value of an integer (or whatever datatype the parameter was set to). 

That gap you see above prodkbp is in the output as well. Not sure if that matters either. My production server has that anomaly as well so I can't imagine that has anything to do with it. Basically everything looks right but something is still wrong. I cannot install Enterprise Manager Environment 

Which made sense since I had changed the account that was being used. I simply deleted encrypted content to address that since it was a new SSRS instance anyway. The second error was the one that took me for a loop 

Much to my surprise that actually fixed the issue. My problem is that the documentation for account permissions on the SSRS account do not mention this permission is required. They only state that "Log On As A Service" is required. All my other SSRS environments, which I inherited, use a domain admin as the service account so I have nothing to compare to. I am trying to get away from that setup. Is this just a flaw in MS documentation or did I cover up the problem (XY)? I do not understand how "Bypass Traverse Checking" fixed "ERROR: Failed to initialize listener" 

I was having an issue getting SQL Server Reporting Services 2008R2 SP3 working under a domain service account on Windows Server 2008R2. It started with this What am I missing for my SSRS Service account local server permissions? and I have progressed from there some. I have a domain account setup as the service account for SSRS and the service is running. However on the /ReportServer and /Reports pages I am getting page cannot be displayed on my local server. Looking at the logs under "C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSRS10_50.MSSQLSERVER\Reporting Services\LogFiles" I saw two errors 

The others are combinations of the documented flags, e.g. 24 is 16 and 8. This is a method for simulating optional parameters and is used in e.g. C iirc, the numbers and so on are structured like that because they correspond to binary values that combined in any unique way create a unique number. The function that accepts them then use bitmasking to extract each individual number. E.g. if you send the value 6 to a function, then we know that this is a combination of 4 and 2, to find this out using a bit mask we would do: 

Make sure to keep transactions as short as possible. E.g. don't show a login form after starting a transaction and wait for user input, instead gather all the info you need and then run the transaction. Use the lowest possible isolation level, e.g. don't set serializable when you just want to temporarily show some values to the user. Please note that setting correct isolation level is a science in itself and out of scope in this answer. If you are the victim of a deadlock, i.e. you get error# 1205, then re-run your transaction transparently to your user. Since the other, competing, transaction has now hopefully acquired the resources it was waiting for and finished, it is unlikey that you will encounter the same deadlock again. 

Sometimes when inserting data in a table with many columns it could be useful to know which columns must be specified if the insert-statement shouldn't fail. I wrote this query to find out which columns are not nullable, identity, computed, timestamp and have no default value. 

As part of the troubleshooting I was doing to try and address the issue I ran Process Monitor while I was trying to start the service. I tracked as event that also had a result of "Access Denied" which was the service trying to read files inside the directory where reporting services was installed an running from. In my case it was: "C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSRS10_50.MSSQLSERVER\Reporting Services" I check the security of the folder and the service account I was using had no rights to the folder. That is why giving it local admin rights fixed it because that group did have access. I gave my service account Modify access to the folder and its contents. After that I was able to start the service. 

For testing I have been trying to install Oracle 11g on a test system with a single database several times with the aid of snapshots. This most recent iteration I have been having issues getting the database to register with the listener. I am to understand that PMON, as long as the database is running, will attempt to register itself at regular intervals with a listener that is running locally on the same machine using port 1521. I have such a listener running but the service is not registered it seems. 

That tells me that the database registered itself dynamically correctly. prodbkp is my SID. This might be a case issue since I named the DB "PRODbkp" but everything else seems to be fine since I can connect with just fine. Case should not be an issue with service names as per docs.oracle.com tsnnames.ora 

Evidently, this is how you copy tables from databases with permissions via remote connection to a local file-folder on Oracle SQL Developer (Mac OS X Yosemite): 

Here is a screenshot of output for clarification: My second attempt is closer to the expected result, sans "DESCRIPTION" column, necessitating the JOIN clause; I've also included the query and output below: 

N00b question here: I'm still learning Oracle SQL Developer. Although I understand how to query databases/tables remotely, I'm unable to manipulate the data due to permissions-basically I would like to download/export copies of the databases/tables so I can manipulate or adjust the data within the table. I'm running Oracle SQL Developer on Mac OS X Yosemite and I'm unable to place a copy of the original table in my table space. I've consulted Oracle dox, but I believe these are dated because the GUI isn't as described. I'd appreciate any assistance. Thank you. 

What exactly is a database mission-statement? My question was prompted after submitting an academic-assignment requiring a "mission-statement" for ERD-modeling. I've yet to encounter this requirement out in the wild as a software engineer, and I presume a mission-statement is akin to a thesis-statement, but I remain unsure after my Google-search. Any DBA professional example or guidance explaining the ideal "database mission-statement" would be appreciated- thanks! 

I've constructed the below query which satisfies the requirements, except output includes NULL values between all "vendor_address2" columns, which isn't intended. I suspect my error is somewhere within the clause, which is designed to exclude any NULL values in the resulting output. I've included a copy of the corresponding table below the output for my most recent query: 

That was difficult to figure out on my own. Research for the general error "Access Denied" in this context led to many different avenues but none that address my specific problem. Most stemmed from not using Reporting Configuration Manager to set up the service account. I did in my case and was able to verify the actions it took were done correctly. RsExec role, URLReservations using new account etc. I ran into a thread that said... 

According to post here and on SO it should just be an issue with the service name. Problem is it looks right to me. Listener.ora 

I can connect to the db using and running shows the DB in question. So between that tnsping and I know the listener is at least running. does not appear to have an effect either. Not that it should matter since I should just have to wait a minute for it to work on its own. I then went looking for any PMON related logs. It should have been in the trace folder ($ORACLE_BASE/diag/rdbms/database_name/SID/trace/SID_pmon_PID.trc) with other trc files but it was not there. I then used the following query to verify where it should be 

The important portion was . Since I would never need to support IPv6 I removed it from the network adapter and restarted the server to ensure all services were updated accordingly. While it might not be the ideal solution I was able to recreate the EM dbcontrol successfully after that change.