nullmailer logs when a message is sent out, but includes no information like the to-addresses, subject lines, which machine it's sending to, etc.. I can't find any documentation about how to change logging info. Is there a way? 

It can change depending on which nameservers are updated. Check your TTL -- if it's 24 hours, it means servers are allowed to cache at least that long. But, some cache longer anyway, and it can be staggered, which means it can easily be 3x the TTL to actually move. If you know you're going to be switching DNS, set your TTLs low so the switch can happen more quickly (for most DNS servers). 

I have CPU I/O wait steady around 50%, but when I run it shows little to no disk activity. What causes wait without iops? NOTE: There no NFS or FUSE filesystems here, but it is using Xen virtualization. 

Rather than copy the MDF files around, a better solution is to take a backup of the database and then restore that backup onto your target SQL instance. Assuming you are using SQL Management Studio, you can do this by right clicking on your database and choosing: 

Using the guide here: $URL$ I have create a certificate authority using OpenSSL. However I would now like to use the Microsoft CA instead. The question is, is it possible to "import" the root/sub certificates I created with OpenSSL into MSCA? 

Answering my own question here (which by no means devalues the answer from JakeGould) I have finally found the cause of this, rather than a writeup it is all neatly summarised on this page: $URL$ Using the guidance on that page (and the linked articles) I looked at loaded Apache modules and found mod_view_proxy.so which is not a known Apache Module. This was being loaded into Apache via a LoadModule directive in /etc/httpd/conf.d/perl.conf. All files had been touched so the datetime stamp on them do not look suspicious. As blog entry mentions the SSHD had also been replaced with a different version. As to how it got compromised, not entirely sure - the assumption is that it was caused by running and older version of vBulletin and/or one of its plugins (which is entirely my fault). Also I need to give these guys their dues: $URL$ As you can see from this thread I had exhausted all ideas I had and also my technical ability, so as a last resort I went to Sucuri with everything I knew and had done. Yes, its a paid service but they found the issue, resolved it - their service was fantastic. They were genuinely interested in helping me navigate through this issue, a level service we don't often see these days. I have nothing but praise for them and would not hesitate to recommend them to anybody in my position. 

To make sure the problem is really a problem of resolution, you can enable the DNS client log (the DNS client is a service on Windows). To do so, go to: 

It just needs a jar called Bootstrap.jar. Then this Bootstrap looks for an architecture dependent binary library called APR (for Apache RunTime) through this APR lifecycle listener class that is not found. 

I'm in a similar configuration. Don't try the VPN over vboxnet0, what you need is to declare one of the 4 interfaces over eth0 in bridge mode. It works well with Cisco VPN, running over a XP interface, when the bridge is on eth0. However when the bridge is over wlan0 : NO WAY. I think you will find bug reports about this. 

In the list this provides there are a number of modules that I don't immediately recognise, specifically: 

When using HTTPs/TLS/SSL site traffic is encrypted between your browser (or the application initiating the connection) and the web server that is serving pages to you. This means that if any intermediary attempts to "listen" to your requests/responses all they will see is encrypted traffic. This encryption model is the same regardless of whether you are using a VPN or a standard internet connection. 

It would seem that when I attempt to access my Plesk admin page this is unavailable. After doing some cursory checks I discovered that the server was not listening for incoming requests on port 8443 (verified remotely via telnet). I therefore assumed that the service was not running and therefore issued the following command via SSH under the root account: 

We're seeing a weird statistic on the number of table-opens. I've appended the mysqltuner dump below. It says we've open 94,000 tables in the past 24 hours. But there's only 15,000 tables total and we know that on this particular read-slave replicant only about 100 tables are being accessed. Furthermore it says we're caching only 2k of those 94k. How do I make sense of these numbers? And how to fix the caching issue -- sure we could "increase the table cache" but that doesn't sound like the root issue. 

I'm looking for a queuing system which is fast and reliable and potentially can be spread across machines. Platform is Linux. Open source is preferable. Both RabbitMQ and ZeroMQ look good but I have no experience with these or any other queuing systems. Can you point me in the right direction? 

When I perform the backup (initiated via a cron job) I set a .htaccess rule on my site to redirect any requests to a static "down for backup, back shortly" page. Once the backup completes I remove the rule and the site reopens. All well and good, it has been like this for years and as you can imagine this works perfectly well and I haven't had any issues. However... I would like to not have to close the site during the backup, so the question is can I do this with mysqldump? Is the tool capable of handling conditions where data changes after the backup initiates? If it does live backups can I guarantee that I won't get a corrupt backup? Is there a better way of doing a live backup? 

Then have a look at what the subversion client does in that log. To make sure it really bypasses the hosts file, compare to the result of a manual: 

In addition to the answers already given, especially Tim's suggestion about the root account specific settings, let me add a few lines about the basics of a general way to quickly diagnose ssh connection problems. On the client add the verbose options 

I believe there are a number of software to do this. Google up for the 'network shaping software` keywords. here is one, random pick (Might not be for 64bits though). This is useful when on a domestic LAN, you want to make sure some long running traffic (P2P, streaming...) do not interfere with response time of other interactive activities (surfing...). 

If you wanted to use a utility on your Linux (or other Unix) server box, and it required Java, and no other application on your server required Java, would you be turned off that you had to install it? That is, do you look at that dependency and think "Bloat, security hazard, another system I have to maintain," or at this point is Java so safe and ubiquitous that it's no trouble at all? 

Various processes log in various formats to various locations with various roll-over logic in . I'd like a log-viewer that can handle a decent quantity of data, join roll-over log files, and ideally could even interleave log records to get a timeline of what happened on the machine. For example, I saw a CPU usage spike at a certain time this morning and I'd like to see if there's anything in any of the logs that explains it. P.S. Yes I realize there's configuration issues like Apache logs can be "anything" so you'd need to tell the log viewer how to parse, and yes I understand that interleaving is hard between products because few columns (except possible "date" and "general message") would necessarily line up. 

To be honest there are quite literally hundreds, maybe tens, of ways of doing this. Personally I would use a simple batch file that maps a network drive (net use) and then copies the files. Rather than copy or xcopy I would recommend using robocopy as this support functions such as mirroring. As for executing installers, thats a different question entirely. For this you could use remote command (rcmd) to execute the installer once you have copied it across. 

I would get a 403 error back, however all I am seeing is page.php. Conclusion is that the directives are malformed and not being followed. Could anybody offer any guidance on where I may have gone wrong?