Answering mostly so this stops popping up as unanswered: There appears to be no way forward for these switches, indeed. 

The regulatory aspect (getting an internet provider connection at the "road house" rather than misusing a "end-use subscriber" connection until you are found out, disconnected, and possibly sued for breach of contract) is a potentially large hurdle. Don't discount that. Fiber-wise you'll probably be money ahead with single-mode fiber (the fiber is so much cheaper than multimode fiber that slightly more expensive connectors and SFPs are paid for by the savings on fiber cost whenever the run gets moderately long.) Might as well get reduced bend radius single-mode while you are at it - it adds little to the cost of a cable and reduces the fussiness of handling quite a bit. Slap a MicroTik RB260GSP on each end with an appropriate SFP (it's a small switch with an SFP slot for less $ than many "media converters" - I use 3 at present and recommend them, but I'm not in any way affiliated and an open to the concept that there might be a cheaper option I haven't found yet.) For SFPs, obsolete 4GB fiberchannel 1310 S-M SFPs do a wonderful job with gigabit ethernet and will cost you under $5 each on ebay if you shop well. 2-fiber drop without a lot of shopping (you could do better) $250, $112 for switches, $10 for SFPs, and a little budget left for terminating. Or you could spend a little more on chinese (or surplus non-chinese, if you can find them) BiDi SFPs and save more by going to 1-strand drop fiber (then again, sometimes a smart/lucky shopper can find 12-fiber drop for less than 1 fiber drop - depends what's on the market at a given moment.) Wireless links don't go through trees well at all, but if the land is owned by friendly (or open to negotiation/cash settlement) parties punching a hole (right of way) through the trees for a high-speed point to point wireless link (not MESH, Gawd, Not Mesh) is likely to be a lot cheaper than the mechanics of getting fiber run (the fiber itself is cheap - the hole for it is expensive.) If the land is hostile, look at "very tall flagpoles" (AKA towers) to get above the trees. If the cost of these things make the cable company look less rapacious, cogitate on that fact. You may also find that some other location is better to put a tower to serve your houses - long distances are not so much a problem, trees and dirt are (so if you can get signal to a mountain you can see, it might be a lot cheaper than trying to get signal through or over trees "closer.") Running fiber on the ground will almost certainly introduce you to a host of ills (things that gnaw, things that stomp with hooves, people who steal it, or at least cut it with the intent of stealing it, for the copper that isn't actually in it) and not having a splicer will begin to look pound-foolish. If nothing else, look into the actual owner of the utility poles (if there are utility poles) and pole rental costs - running "drop fiber" or some other form of ADSS cable (but drop fiber is usually the most cost-effective form) on legitimately rented poles might be the best option. You should search around and see if there are WISPs in the area already. You should also investigate what you have in local companies that will send someone out to terminate fiber, since pulling a 1000 foot fiber with connectors on and not damaging the connectors is a lot harder than pulling 1000 feet of bare cable and having it terminated after it's in place. 

Simplest and cheapest approach (other than not worrying about it at all) is to figure that you have 150 devices, so you need 4 48 port switches, but you don't need 42 of those ports for devices, so you exploit Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) to run multiple cables between switches (without creating loops.) You need a switch that supports it, but most do these days. More moderately expensive is to skip the 10gig switch and just cable between your 4 switches with 10 Gig from their SFP+ ports. Depending on layout and availability of SFP+ ports you can either use one switch as a star for the rest, or just put them in line. That's only one step "worse" than a 10 gig switch and only for traffic between the "end-most" switches. The model where you have a (probably 4 SFP+) switch with at least 3 SFP+ ports to act as a star is "as good" as a central switch for traffic between the leaves, and better for traffic from the hub to any leaf. 

Your best bet is probably to forget it exists and move on. That fiber is so obsolete it's like not having fiber at all. The fact that that type of fiber is packaged in the same cable as Cat6 wire bespeaks shady marketing, at the kindest view - outright scam comes to mind as well. If you want to teach yourself to DIY fiber connections and are willing to invest several hundred dollars to connectorize your obsolete fiber, it's quite do-able. Or you can spend similar money to have someone else come do it for you. The usual recommendation for home-scale termination is mechanical splice connectors. It's not my recommendation, but it is the usual one. Epoxy-polish connectors are what I taught myself to do (I had a campus to do, not a house, and the fiber was not pre-obsolete) and with careful shopping I think it set me back about $400 to be completely equipped for the job. Fiber stripper, scribe, polishing puck, oven, epoxy, epoxy syringes, polishing pad, polishing media, fiber scope, fiber scrap container, work mat. You can easily spend a lot more. You can skip the oven if you use a different type of epoxy and can leave the fibers undisturbed for a long time. Fusion-splice connectors are good and easy, but require a fusion-splicer, which is very expensive, and the splice-on connectors are also expensive compared to epoxy-polish. 

If I understand your needs correctly, you should look into "QinQ" or 802.1ad Basically "double-layer VLANs" or "VLAN Encapsulation" - the switches wrap incoming packets in an additional layer of VLAN going in, and unwrap them going out. You'd need switches that support it, but they are commonly available. And you need to keep your head on straight when setting it up.... 

Many switches (smart ones) can do bandwidth limiting on a per-port basis - this is a robust, distributed method of limiting BW from a provider perspective for port-connected clients. Since most switches that have SFPs are also "smart switches" I'd guess it's most common. I've never heard of it as a DHCP function (...and I have a fiber network.) For mobile clients (not fixed to a port) it's often rolled into a captive portal arrangement. Some SDN systems (UniFi, for example) can apply a limit on a per user basis without a captive portal setup, but that's not really the DHCP server doing it (it might depend on the DHCP server telling the system that client X has connected to port Y, or to wireless SSID Q on AP Z.) 

You may find that a pair of gigabit switches with SFP slots is, in fact, cheaper (or the same price, or nearly) as a pair of media converters. Media converters tend to be overpriced, as the majority of fiber installations don't use any, so they are relatively low-volume as compared to switches with SFP slots and copper ports. While the default logic has long been pushing multi-mode for "relatively short links" 400m is a fairly long multi-mode link, especially if you might ever upgrade to 10GbE. It may be long enough that you will find (as I did in 2010) that single-mode fiber is actually cheaper by enough to pay for slightly higher priced SFPs. At that time single-mode cable was about half the cost of OM3/4, and SFPs were about 35% more expensive for single-mode (new - used is different, see below.) In general, if installing fiber you don't want to get locked into BX/singlefiber SFPs - 12 fiber cable is barely more expensive than 1 fiber cable (at least it is if you are shopping the right vendors) as the cable itself costs a good deal more than the fiber in it. You'll never be sad to have 10 "extra" fibers later on, either. BX (WDM) SFPs are for when you have limited fibers and you want to get more data on the same fiber without installing any more. If you are willing to shop used items, single-mode SFPs that do gigabit ethernet quite happily but were made to do (now horribly outmoded) 4 Gb fiberchannel are available used for dirt cheap. So are Gigabit SFP switches. If not willing to shop used, prices are a bit stiffer.