Change what ever rule hit you want to send email to the specified level you want emails sent out this may require you to create a separate access rule if you only want it when it's specific traffic. Change the severity for the new specific rule's severity level and set the email alert configuration to that. Edit for configuration. it would look something like this: 

Then on the Sophos box NAT your protected subnets to the 192.168.26.50 address when destined to the 192.168.71.0/24 network. Let me know if you have any issues with that or if you need more help. 

Where do you live? If it's US they aren't allowed to do that legally. All you'll have to do is find a SIP provider and have your Call Manager of whatever flavor register to it. You may run into QoS issues using just standard ISP broadband though with latency and jitter. PoE is industry standard so almost any PoE switch will be able to power it, make sure you know the phone wattage and the power supply capabilities of the switch though because some may have all PoE ports but the power supply limits the amount of active ports to 24. 

It can be done but it's not really recommended. You just have to make sure your server has a scope for that network so it knows which pool to use when it reads the relay stamp and configure the helper on the local router (don't configure multiple devices with helpers, it's a really common mistake to see). Best practices rant: When possible you should do DHCP as close to the originating network as possible, if a WAN link goes down they're not going to be able to access any of the information locally. If the .200s site link goes down any sites relying on that server have lost access to every thing until you go around and statically configure addresses on devices that need it. Typically you'd use helper if you have multiple subnets at the same site (or layer 3 boundaries? I can't tell exactly what's going on in your screenshot, it's small and my eyes are strained currently) 

I hope this helps, it's kind of difficult for me to explain as I just really learned how it works. Edit: This is indeed how it works in real life. Packet Tracer does a great job of simulating simple real-life networks. 

The first part may be CDP? I'm not 100% sure on what communication is initially done when you connect a router and switch, but considering CDP is enabled by default, it would communicate immediately on that link. When the PC is attempting to reach the web server, it doesn't know the web servers MAC address and instead knows that it needs to send the packet to it's default gateway (router). So the destination MAC will be the gateway interface's MAC address. The router will strip this away and look at the destination IP, and it will know that it needs to send the packet to the web server since it knows the web server MAC address. The source and destination IP will always remain the original, while the source and destination MAC address will always change as a packet frame goes from device to device. 

When I apply the access list and the ip inspect statements where they need to be, I am unable to receive ANY traffic into this interface because our SLA no longer works. I overcame this by putting in: 

When you 180.180.1.2, you are actually pinging the outside interface of your router, which connects to your ISP. The inside interface is sitting on the 192.168.1.0/24 network, and in this case it probably is the .1 ip! Now when you ping a random website, you are actually pinging the web server itself that hosts your site. 

Sure, you can modify these timers to make is quicker. Or use RSTP(Rapid Spanning tree), which is more like the defacto now. RSTP is much quicker, as takes just a few secs to reconverge. 

If you didn't physically connect another machine to the port where your friend is connected, but just spoofed his Mac, then it's possible that somewhere along the route a switch saw what it calls a 'mac-flap' . 

You're right. You would just get a MetroE connection ( usually runs EoMPLS at the carrier). Prices are cheap. It gives symmetric speeds just like T1 does. And when you need to add more bandwidth, you just let the carrier know. They can add bandwidth in most cases without having to change your link or hardware. Here are some additional things to consider: 

Actually even with CDP you cannot see R3 as being neighbors with R1. CDP, is link-local. Which basically means that CDP can only show devices directly connected as neighbors 1 hop away. In your example, R3 is two hops away. Unless it has another directly connected link to R1, it won't become a CDP neighbor. 

Are you talking about layer 3 traffic for vlan interfaces that can be seen with 'show interfaces vlan.### extensive', if your trying to find it per vlan in total including layer 2 traffic that's not a capability of the device. The only ways to find the layer 2 traffic rates would be to write a script gathering the interfaces that are in a specific vlan, parse the output for rates and then add them together or in a monitoring application create a view that has the all the interfaces in a vlan and show you the throughput of them, or with SFLOW you could have the device send you the stats and again parse the data somehow to add them together, but this again would mainly layer 3 data (it'll show you inter-vlan communication rates as well though at least). 

You can either choose to turn on ICS or do the following: Go to Start and search on cmd or command. Right click on either cmd or command then select Run as administrator. At the command prompt type regedit. Navigate to the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\ Services\Tcpip\Parameters\IPEnableRouter setting, right click and select Modify 

You'll configure and allow hairpin NAT on your SRX ($URL$ make sure to allow the traffic from the VPN zone to the other VPN zones for services that are needed. Depending on your setup you'll either add the customer network list to the protected networks for split tunneling on the clients, if it's not split you'll don't have to add anything client side. On the site to site VPNs you and your customers will have to add your VPN subnet to their cryptomaps so the client VPN traffic will be encrypted and forwarded to the remote sites. If you are using a pulse appliance for the VPN the configuration could be more simple if you just NAT it out of the pulse box to an already trusted network, that way the traffic appears to the SRX as already coming from the inside and the client sites will already know of the network that it's coming from so no further configuration on their end would be needed. 

If i remember, default spanning tree (802.1d) takes about 50 secs to reconverge. That is the duration for which you will be losing frames. 

All of this assumes they are on the same subnet. Otherwise, the gateway comes into picture. See Ron's answer for that. 

DTP Think of it this way - if you want to automatically setup trunk interfaces on one switch, when the other side is requesting a trunk, you turn to DTP (Dynamic Trunking Protocol). Using the right settings, you’d be able to automatically set an interface to trunk mode, if it is connected to another switch. VTP Now lets say you have multiple VLANs that you need to create in your network. But you don’t want to bother going to every single switch and creating these VLANs. So you turn to VTP. You configure the right settings, and you just create the VLANs on one switch. VTP also propagates these VLANs to other switches that are set to client-mode. In short, they are independent of each other, except for very little overlap. Like for instance, if you have VTP domains configured on 2 switches, and the domains mismatch, then this affects DTPs ability to negotiate trunking between them. But for the purpose of your CCNA, this level of detail is not required. 

The message itself, just means that it validated the software for all members of the VC. How many members does 'Show virtual-ch' display? Remember, members running different versions, cannot form a virtual chassis. Can you try the same install using the 'no-validate' suffix? Btw, it is possible to do NSSU on EX-series. Again, capabilities and version must match. 

Ctrl + Shift + 6 ? I believe this is it. Edit: Ron is correct, I do think you need to press X afterwards. 

As what jonathanjo said, you would have one subnet per VLAN. Without knowing the nature of the business you're in, I would recommend maybe two different subnets for servers? We have production and test servers, and they're both on different VLANs. The developers for our company are on a VLAN that is able to communicate with both the TEST and DEV VLANs, but the two server VLANs cannot talk to each other. Would there be an instance where a phone would need to communicate with a server on the server VLAN? We have phones which communicate with a TFTP server for their configurations. 

or sh ip inspect session Am I missing something goofy here? Is router traffic not considered to be LAN traffic? I read something about a command: 

This allowed the track to stay up, but then I was no longer able to even ping out to Google. It didn't show any sessions for the ICMP coming from any interfaces on the router using: 

I am attempting to configure CBAC on one of my 2911 routers to better secure a remote site with less configuration and cleaner access lists. We have two circuits, a broadband circuit, and a MPLS circuit. We use IP SLA statements to do policy based routing, and use our broadband circuit for internet traffic. We are natting out our public internet interface with the LAN address space. Below is the configuration details for CBAC and our interfaces: 

Define the local group for the secondary AAA method for authorization, that way if the servers are down it'll use the local priv level for the user account (make sure it's set to 15 for full access) and continue from there. 

Just turn NAT off and the firewall (or open needed ports) on the remote APs, add routes to the remote subnets pointing to the outside interface address of the Router/AP at the remote locations. Bridging will work but will come with a lot more configuration and opens up more problems from in operation. DHCP over WAN will cause local resources at the remote locations to become unavailable if the main site or the connection goes down. Also DHCP over a wireless WAN link can lead to problems if that link is ever saturated or if it get's affected by weather conditions. Also you'll have to think about where your gateway is going to be. Also those links will now have all layer 2 traffic on it when it wouldn't need to be. I don't know the bandwidth of them or current utilization but this could issues that are easily avoided. HTH, Let me know if this makes sense or you need clarification. 

So before the explanation you could configure a separate OSPF area (or possibly the second ospf process) that is purely for the DMVPN, that way the hub is the DR for that OSPF instance, you can initially make the cost higher to go over the DMVPN than adjust the cost when you're ready to cutover. Another solution could be to run EIGRP over the DMVPN instead since it's all Cisco equipment you don't really have to worry about interoperability, but seeing how you already run OSPF in your LAN you're probably much more comfortable and experienced with it. The only other option (I'm aware of at least) would be to a dual hub topology which may break some things since you you already have L2L tunnels to each site on one of the hubs, I've never had to attempt to configure this in tandem though so I'm unsure what the result would be. You may want to do this after the fact though anyways in order to have some redundancy should the DR go down. The reason that this needs to be configured this way is because the hub is what creates the NHRP mappings in between all the sites, with the nhrp multicast map each site sends it's updates to the hub and the hub then forwards it onto all the other spokes. The spokes learn of the routes in the NHRP 'cloud' but since the DR isn't part of that topology it has no way of sending updates through NHRP since the BDR doesn't send out updates until it becomes the DR, with no way to forward the updates there is no way to propagate the information needed for the spoke-to-spoke tunnels. Furthermore the spoke routers cannot form an adjacency with the DR making it since as defined in the RFC 2328 'On broadcast and NBMA networks, all routers become adjacent to both the designated router and the backup designated router' Reference Sec. 10.4 Let me know if this helps or if you have any more questions!