When going to $URL$ you'll see it looks the same. Web servers can respond to multiple domains with the very same content. But of course, someone could have copied the look and feel to another server. Luckily, in your case you can tell both domains refer to the very same server, (today) using IP address 63.245.216.132 for IPv4: 

...makes both $URL$ and $URL$ go to 127.0.0.1, hence: your own machine. (Even more: anything that refers to , such as or would go to 127.0.0.1 when run from your computer.) Apparently you have a web server running on your own computer on port 80 (HTTP), but nothing on port 443 (HTTPS). Even more, getting actually proves your file is used, as otherwise you would see the default website from $URL$ Note that if you would have the server on your computer also support HTTPS on port 443, you'd get certificate errors, as there is no way you can buy a certificate for the domain . 

After downloading any file, running will show you what the browser has stored in the extended attributes: 

I think that meanwhile Microsoft has added the symbols to many Microsoft versions of fonts, to allow more recent Microsoft software to display those characters without switching fonts. For example, U+F020 shows a bullet in most fonts, but not in Arial on your Mac. Installing a Microsoft-version of Arial might help. But that might surely get you into other problems when you're using Arabic... I doubt any non-Microsoft software will handle the above exceptions. Still, in general: One way to determine the name of the font: when printing from Word to PDF one can choose to include the font (or: the subset of characters that are used) in the PDF, to ensure it prints fine on systems that do not have that font installed. So, peeking into the PDF's properties might then reveal the name of that font. And maybe simply selecting the character in OpenOffice.org will already reveal its name in the font list. (However, given the automatic displaying of symbols like described above, both methods will probably not work for bullets at all.) One way to determine the exact character code: copy it (for Pub Quiz , copy it from the auto-suggest in the search of iTunes) and paste into some Unicode code converter. This reveals that the Pub Quiz character is U+E047, which could be some odd double-quote. But well, as this is from a private use area, and we don't know which font the developers had in mind when they typed that name in the iPhone app-store, I guess only the developers can tell us what they hoped it would look like... (Fileformat.info has a neat utility to show the character using all fonts on your computer.) 

In Tiger, a FileVault disk is a sparse image. (After upgrading to Leopard it's still such sparse image, but when creating a new FileVault in Leopard, you'll get a sparse bundle instead. The latter works better with Time Machine.) Did you try to run Disk Utility on that image? See Apple's Mac OS X 10.3, 10.4: FileVault - How to verify or repair a home directory image for detailed instructions. (Or, if for some reason you cannot use that, maybe .) 

The search index does not store everything. Though some special characters (like in C++) appear to be in the index, I doubt question marks (and common words) are in the search index. And hence you cannot search for it. To get an idea of what seems to be in the search index, one can look at the help text in the grey box (below "This is Google's cache of superuser.com") when asking Google to highlight terms from the cache. Google silently refuses to highlight things that, I guess, are not in the index, even though they are in that cache. For Super User's cache: 

When sending to colleagues you might actually be sending using Microsoft's RTF, rather than HTML. RTF is often not retained well when sending through the internet, not even when the recipient is also running Exchange. Did you ever get complaints about winmail.dat attachments? RTF. (Maybe How to configure Internet e-mail message formats at the user and the domain levels in Exchange Server 2003 might help.) 

To let the Grub boot disk load the grub config file of your Linux, then boot into that and restore the MBR with . Just play with different setups to find one that you like. 

PartImage can create disk images that only store the used blocks of a filesystem, thus drastically reducing the required space by ignoring unused block. I don't think you can directly mount the resulting images, but going: 

In the Gnome file dialog under 'Places' I can add and edit bookmarks to directories. That list however not only contains my bookmarks, but also a list of all partitions on the system that Gnome seems to gather automatically. I can't edit that list as the right-click-menu items for that are greyed out. How can I get rid of those automatically generated entries or limit it to just my bookmarks? 

If both paths refer to the local filesystem (even when one of them is a network filesystem), rsync can't use its delta transfer and will transfer the full file. 

At the bottom of the toolbox you see a black and white square. Those are your foreground and background colors. To change them, just click on the square. Also have a look at some Gimp tutorials, as there is certainly plenty of other stuff left to learn: 

I have two (or more) video files that I want to play side by side. I could do that simply by opening them in two seperate windows, but that would also seperate all the controls (play/pause/forward/...). I want to play them in a synchronized fashion so that pause/forwarding/... works on both videos simultaneously so that they always stay at the same timecode and they don't go out of sync. How would I accomplish that in Linux? This is needed for viewing only, so compositing them into a new video file first should be avoided if possible, but if there isn't an easy way to do that, I welcome answers doing it with composition as well. 

The other issuse a hypothetical command with the password to receive a file (a GUI to select files would be welcome as well): 

I have a Microsoft Ergonomic 4000 keyboard and I am running a custom keymap (dvorak with some stuff for umlauts): 

The host with the files issues a hypothetical command to make the files available, protected with a password: 

The variable takes the position values where the jump occurs and then just uses to slice the file into pieces at those positions. The result are then separate mpeg files for every chapter, as the jump occurred whenever the recording was stopped and restarted. The resulting mpeg files where jump free and could then be processed as usual. The script itself actually doesn't call , it just outputs the commands needed to slice the file into pieces. 

I am searching for an encrypted filesystem for Linux that can be mounted in a write-only mode, by that I mean you should be able to mount it without supplying a password, yet still be able to write/append files, but neither should you be able to read the files you have written nor read the files already on the filesystem. Access to the files should only be given when the filesystem is mounted via the password. The purpose of this is to write log files or similar data that is only written, but never modified, without having the files themselves be exposed. File permissions don't help here as I want the data to be inaccessible even when the system is fully compromised. Does such a thing exist on Linux? Or if not, what would be the best alternative to create encrypted log files? My current workaround consists of simply piping the data through , which works, but is very cumbersome, as you can't easily get access to the filesystem as a whole, you have to pipe each file through manually. 

The closest thing I have right now is this hack, which works but isn't very comfortable and would give Windows users some trouble: 

For years, I've had the exact same issues with app thumbnails. Particularly for Metro-style apps (RT/UWP), I often see a blank or default icon, primarily in search results and settings. I've been troubleshooting it for years, with no success until now. I'm documenting this here because I know I'm going to encounter it again. When I search for a solution, I'll hopefully find this page. Background In Windows 10, UWP apps are shipped as AppX packages. This includes many of the new built-in apps (stored in ) as well as apps downloaded via Windows Store (stored in ). PowerShell offers several cmdlets that are useful for managing AppX packages. Throughout my troubleshooting, I found Get-AppxPackage, Add-AppxPackage, and Remove-AppxPackage particularly useful, especially since is inaccessible to normal users, even administrators. Before attempting these fixes, you should be comfortable editing the registry, working with the command prompt and PowerShell, and making backups. You should be prepared to wipe everything and reinstall Windows should something go wrong. Issue 1: Third-party thumbnail handlers for .png Some third-party apps like to install custom thumbnail generators. Some of these apps do so in a way that breaks things. In my case, Google's Drive File Stream was the culprit. Keep in mind that this is different from having a default program for a file; Windows Photos remained the default for me. To solve the issue: 

Open Command Prompt as an administrator. Run: . Look for any violations that could be related to the issue at hand. Run: Restart the computer. If this actually fixed anything, please be sure to leave a comment. 

Reinstalling the driver seems to have worked. It's possible that simply resetting the device would've had a similar effect. 

Issue 7: Low disk space Unsurprisingly, if your drive is almost full, File Explorer will have issues saving thumbnails and will be rather unhappy about it. The solution here is to clear some space. Simple enough. Issue 8: Windows is borked, proceed to panic Anytime someone mentions this problem on Microsoft Answers, a Microsoft rep always recommends the same solution. I've never heard of it working for anyone, but it can't hurt to try. (Besides, if you contact Microsoft, they're going to tell you to do it anyway.) It could theoretically fix certain obscure issues. 

This may seem like an obscure fix, but the issue stems from the fact that AppX package logos are typically stored as PNG files. When this issue arises, you may also notice that PNG files are lacking proper thumbnails (you won't see previews while browsing folders in File Explorer). If the app causing the problem has installed similar handlers for other image file types, you can perform the same steps as above to the affected file extensions to restore the thumbnails. Keep in mind that this may affect the functionality of the app, so you may have to make a trade-off. Issue 2: Thumbnails are disabled in Performance Settings 

Right-click on the Start Menu icon or press Windows + X. A menu will appear. Click . Under the pane on the right, click the link. Click the link in the pane on the left. The tab should already be selected in the resulting dialog. Click in the group. Ensure is checked. 

Run Disk Cleanup. (You can search for it in the Start menu.) Check . Uncheck everything else. If this works, you can stop. Click . Open the command prompt. Attempt an automated icon cache clear: (prior to Windows 10: ). If this works, you can stop. Kill : Delete a cache: Delete more caches: If thumbnails were also problematic, delete those caches, too:: Start File Explorer back up: 

Open Settings. Click . Click . Turn off . Go to $URL$ Click the button. Go to $URL$ You should see a list of apps you've used recently. Click . Reboot, just to be safe. Try re-enabling . 

If you ever want to re-enable Defender, change to on both lines. You can download the files to disable and re-enable defender from Gist.