Far too many variables to answer this question properly without a lot more detail about your particular configuration. Adding an ISA server in a 2(plus)-leg configuration will almost certainly lead to issues unless you do it in a controlled manner and schedule down-time. But adding an ISA server in a single-leg configuration will not impact the network, until you begin pointing clients to the server. 

That said, it really depends on the organisation, and the kind of DBAs you have. Plus, you can grant a DBA administrative access over the SQL instance, without also granting administrative access to the OS. This is preferred if you don't/can't trust the DBA to maintain the OS, and you'll have to shoulder rebooting/maintenance responsibilities yourself. You've asked a loaded question though, since MS doesn't really have a fixed position on this issue. You might find some technet discussions on the issue but I can't see them issuing a white paper. The closest I can get you is the security best-practices doco: $URL$ 

It's possible to set a reservation in vSphere but you shouldn't need to do this under normal circumstances. You should not need to make any automatic memory reservation on ESXi for the hypervisor. It will preserve sufficient memory for its usage by itself. Note that vSphere is (from the ground up) a completely different beast to VMWare's other products. There's little to zero common code there. So tweaks applied to workstation or server are almost universally irrelevant in a vSphere environment. That said, if you over-allocate your RAM and one of the VMs demands more than the host can provide, your VMs will start swapping memory to disk (super slow!). So long as your VMs don't attempt to consume all of their allocated memory (typically only certain products such as SQL server will behave in this manner), you can allocate up to (and over) 100% of the host's RAM (since they'll never really use it all, anyway). If you want to play it safe, leave at least 2Gb unallocated and carve the remaining 14Gb between your VMs however you like. Assuming you end up with 2 VMs with 6 to 8Gbs of RAM each, the extra RAM overhead per VM will be 300 to 400Mb. Take a look at the vSphere Resource Management Guide for entirely too much information. Above all though, my overriding advice is this: Do not tweak any settings or alter any defaults in any way on the host or VM configurations, unless there's a very specific need you have which is clearly solved by a particular setting. Don't make any 'sounds like a good idea' changes out of the box, it's a really fast way to get yourself into 'now I have lots of strange issues and nobody can help because my system's configuration is nothing like anyone else's system configuration'. 

Vendor support can be purchased for OpenFiler, and your hardware, if your company insists on these things. You can also configure multiple OpenFiler hosts with DRDB to give you high availability and redundancy options. We've run one of these in production for over a year now, and it's been very solid. 

For the specific models you've listed, I cannot find any information about the presence of read and write caches, or even the model names for the array controllers that are used in those devices. IMO this is a big concern. An iSCSI storage solution with no read/write cache will suffer severe performance penalties when serving VM disks. Think, like 1/10th the throughput you would otherwise be getting with a 512Mb battery-backed cache or flash cache. So this'd be my major concern. Outside of that, performance-wise, they will probably meet your needs. Dual PSUs and NICs, decent amount of storage space, reasonable processing ability. SATA disks are not ideal for longevity, but throughput-wise they should be fine (just make sure to buy enterprise-grade drives designed to work with your intended workloads (i.e. if you buy western digitals, make sure to get TLER-enabled drives) 

The issue seemed to center mostly around uploading files to a host via an SSL secured session. MS says it's been fixed as of IE7. Mentioned at the end of this article: $URL$ If it's still there in the latest version of Apache, I'd err on the side of caution and keep it in there. The performance hit for your server and IE clients is not as bad as rendering them unable to access parts of the site. 

Try opening up perfmon and when it (eventually) loads up, add counters in for disk queue length. If you have large queues building up, you know there's a problem with some element of the disk subsystem. First guess would be the array battery, then the array card, then the cabling and disks. See if the server will boot up OK from a Linux LiveCD or if that takes an extended period also. It'll mostly leave the disk subsystem alone and run from RAM. 

Extract the user SMTP addresses & Names from LDAP. This is most certainly possible and you probably want to try and get it into a CSV format. You could do this with VBScript (check this out) or perhaps PowerShell (see here). Transform this into a suitable format for GMail contacts. Since GMail accepts CSV, you might be able to do this with no or minimal alteration to your export data. Here's the skinny on GMail's acceptable CSV format. Load your data into GMail. 

Pick the server that you own that can take the most disks with the highest total capacity Strip out all but a couple of Gb of RAM Install OpenFiler Configure some volumes and expose some iSCSI LUNs Hook the server into an isolated gigabit VLAN Plumb your virtual hosts into the same storage network Point the hosts at the target LUNs Start adding VMs to your SAN 

We're hoping to solve a need for a low-cost SAN at one of our sites by deploying an OpenFiler on a DL360 strapped to an MSA70. We've been running a similar setup for 18 months at our locel site, so we're happy with the performance and compatability. The problem is that this new unit with be a remote data-center which we rarely visit, so we need to know if a disk has failed in the unit via some kind of notifications. I'm assuming I have to get the HP agents operational within the OS in order to get SNMP notifications of a disk failure and tie the server to our SIM server. OpenFiler's built on rPath Linux and while there are HP Linux agents for the DL360, I don't know what kind of package I'd have to use for rPath. I looked at having the iLo forward alerts, but that appears to require the agents on the OS, just the same. Can anyone recommend a way to fix this issue? I can't deploy the unit without knowing that we'll receive disk failure notifications. Would FreeNAS be a suitable option?