The issue with this now is that my file is now accessible. How can I rewrite this block better? What does mean? ISSUE 2 I was getting a 404 error on URLs such as: 

I'm a but of a newbie to systems admin & redis configuration and am trying to figure our how to optimize redis. We are running a Magento eCommerce app on an AWS m3.large EC2 instance with redis and the backend caching seems quote slow. Up to 15 seconds for TTFB on some pages. The Root device type of our ec2 instance is ebs. When I look at the info command output from the redis CLI I see: 

What I can't get to access is the title of the hash in my templates, so I want to print out the title of the hash i.e. "eth5", how can I do that? Also I have a variable called $int in my define class in the file for my module (/etc/puppet/modules/net/addr.pp), how can I access that using the scope.lookupvar function from this template in the same module? Thanks Dan 

I'd like to print out the above using my template file, however I can't be certain of how many entries will exist, I want to end up with a file like so: 

Ok was the error log was totally throwing me off, and had nothing to do with the underlying issue. The issue was caused by Magento & HHVM not working well together. In the end I solved it simply by adding the following to my /etc/hhvm/server.ini file. 

I'm trying to allow another developer to connect to a our ubuntu server and they are getting the below error in FileZilla. 

Should I update our webserver? Everything is running fine now so I do not wish to run the risk of breaking anything. Can I just update the security updates? Is this the correct process for updating? 

I have created on azure a resource group and within that resource group I have a load balancer with a public IP that includes a scaling set. What I would like to do is to deploy another scaling set (new instances with new configuration) and point the old load balancer to this new scaling set, and therefore maintaining the old public IP. Is this possible to achieve ? Maybe another way that I would be able to change the scaling set and keep the same public IP (without downtime)? 

I'm having toubles setting up the following (which should be very easy but I cannot find a way to do it, sorry): I have a big project with several git submodules. When a change is made to a submodule I want this submodule to build without building the all project. Is this possible to acomplish ? Thanks in advance 

I stopped and started our Dev EC2 instance, I just wanted to test something. Now when I try to access our web app via the new AWS Public DNS I get an error. 

I thought, maybe I added the public key to the on the server incorrectly. She sent me a public key like this called 

And then updating /etc/sudoers so that the ubuntu user must give their password when running a command. To edit this file you must run and add: 

I'm building a new Magento website on a Amazon ec2 instance and will need to point domain of their old OSCommerce site to the new ec2 instance's elastic IP address. Normally I would have though this a simple task of updating the record of their domain, but when I logged into the account with their register I see they have 90 records set up already, mostly & records. They have no IT guy to ask, but I'm almost 100% sure what I need to do but as I normally work with web dev stuff like php and javascript etc I just want to make sure I have it right. To give you a sample of their DNS records they have set up: 

No matter what I change I keep getting this on every run on the test server, the run just terminates straight away: err: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 400 on SERVER: Could not parse for environment production: Syntax error at '='; expected '}' at /etc/puppet/manifests/nodes/nodes.pp:3 on node test On line 3 this is what I have from the above: net::addr { 'routing': What am I missing here? Please help as its driving me to despair! Thanks Dan 

my question is how do I refer to the current loop of the hash iteration. I want to be able to use the "dev" field in this manifest, but since the hash has ip1,ip2 I can't tell what number its on? Thanks Dan 

I started to use Google Cloud Platform recently. I would like to have a header on the google CDN to retrieve the viewer county. AWS provides a header "Cloudfront-viewer-country" to do this, is there anything similar within google cloud platform? 

I have a project in which I intend to add a lot of hosts. In the way I have this structured, I would have to add the host on the inventory.yml and create a file on the folder host_vars. What I would like to not use an inventory file and have the hosts collected from the folder host_vars. Meaning, imagine that I add example.yml to the folder host_vars. Then I would run ansible playbook.yml and example.yml would execute the task. This would prevent me to change two files everytime I add a new host. Is this possible to achieve ? 

I'm struggling to get this to work and don't understand where I'm going wrong, can someone please guide me on how to correct? Basically I want to get an array in my nodes.pp, which is then used by my templates file by cycling through it and writing a line of each element: nodes.pp: 

I'm struggling to understand how to add the route options to my routes file in rhel. Let's say I have the route: ip route: 

When I run the puppet client i keep getting the following: err: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 400 on SERVER: Could not parse for environment production: Syntax error at '='; expected '}' at /etc/puppet/manifests/nodes/ test.pp:3 on node test.myincorp.net addr.pp