How I made my IIS 7.5 work with multiple IP's and multiple Certificates using IP and Host name mix. From your post you've installed your certificates and my guess is you have the chain installed as well. Open up your MMC console. Start > Run > MMC.exe File > Add/Remove Select Certificates. Use Local Computer Once you have the console open go to Certificates > Personal and select one of your certificates. Right click and select Properties. Your friendly name will be displayed, type an * asterisk in front of your friendly name. Click Apply then Ok to close. Now select your IIS website and click on Bindings. Select your IP and leave the port defaulted to 443 and Select HTTPS Now you'll have a field for your host header which you will leave blank. Select your certificate for this IP address. Repeat for your second IP leaving both on port 443. Should work on IIS 7 I tested it on IIS 7.5 and the rest is just a guess. (This old post needed updating so I posted the answer for IIS 7.x) 

Not really knowing what server you are actually looking at we can only guess. Adding to what GregL and Jim B said. My guess is you're migrating from Server 2003 Standard, IIS 6.5, Access 2007 using ASP classic code pages connecting via OLEDB static. You might be planning on importing your Access using Upsizing Wizard (which kind of works most of the time) or you might try the 32bit app Import/Export. For your new setup I'm thinking, MS Server 2012 Standard that is licensed for 1 physical and 2 virtual installs. That would offer you the option of running SQL and IIS independently in different VM's. But, that might not be the best approach in your case. DO NOT: run public applications from a hyper-V HOST OS. I would also suggest not to enable RDP on the HOST. Think of the host as the power cord to your server. If it breaks, you'll need to be onsite to fix it. YOU CAN: install IIS in a Virtual Machine > Memory depends your code code, if you run ASP classic or .Net YOU CAN: install MS SQL in a Virtual Machine > Size of your VM depends on your Edition of MS SQL. Express versions offer up to 10GB of total overhead with data (Compare Editions). Plan your server as you see it 7 years from now. Example: Virtual Server Drive Size day one, 128Gb, year 5 1.5TB, planned 3TB. IIS 7.5 and above does work very well in a Virtual Environment. Running MS SQL Express designed for your OS in your virtual environment is also good. The idea behind it all is to be able to run more from a single physical server than before. If it runs in a stand alone install it should be just find in a virtual install. Excluding Datacenter versions that profit from using all physically attached devices and memory. Having both IIS and SQL Express on the same VM reduces my admin time by not having to watch a second server. Unless you're planning on running a Datacenter version, then you want it on it's own physical machine. Here are some numbers off of my Server 2008 R2 Standard. CPU 3.3Ghz, 8 core, 1 Physical 1 Virtual Windows servers, 2 Virtual Ubuntu Servers, 2 Win8 Virtual Desktops, 2 Win7 Virtual Desktops. IIS = 3.4Gb (27 IIS www sites, 3 ASP Classic 24 .Net) 2008 SQL Express = 1.14Gb (28 dbs active) OS 2008 R2 VM = < 2Gb Total Memory 10Gb never has used it all. Your 64Gb memory machine will be nice but take your real numbers and tune your system to match plus 20% or what the OS recommends. Regarding the hackers, they do exist, but so do scripts. Plan your system recovery as if you're planning on being hacked every night. And practice your recovery process until it's perfect then when it's needed it will actually work. 

The situation I am facing is that we were in the middle of moving mailboxes from an exchange 2010 sp3 environment over to a server running exchange 2013 and the exchange 2013 server had a raid error and we lost all data on the 2013 box immediately after the migration (completely dead array, all VM's gone of course :) I am able to see the mailboxes in "soft deleted" state on the 2010 Exchange box, I have tried running microsoft's recommended command to restore the soft deleted mailboxes the command errors out indicating that user's mailbox is on the 2013 server. Unsure how to proceed and would love any pointers anyone may have. 

Ended up using Kernel for Exchange server from Nucleus Technologies to export all the soft deleted mailboxes out to PST. Given the time constraints we had to get mail flowing it was decided to hurry up a scheduled google apps migration. While I was less than impressed with Google's import tools all in all the switch went well. Not exactly a pretty scenario but all is well in the end. 

I gave both people who responded credit for this because the actual solution was a weird one. Despite showing no errors, I narrowed the problem down to one particular model of removable Hard Drive (Seagate Freeagent 300gb GO drive). When I disabled all these devices, the problem went away on all drives. Very Weird. Reaffirms my dislike of Seagate. Thanks to all. 

We used the network usb hub for a couple of VM scenarios. We also found that you can map the USB controller from the physical machine directly to the operating system (windows server 2003 in our cases). This requires figuring out exactly which hub controller is using what usb ports but it was a great workaround for software using a USB HASP key. 

I am having a very strange issue that I have been unable to nail down. When I send to a particular address with Outlook Web Access 2003, I get the NDR message shown below. When I email that same user the exact same email from Outlook 2007 through the same exchange server, I have no bounceback.The user's address is external to our mail server, completely different company. Reporting-MTA: dns;xxx.corp Final-Recipient: rfc822;gina@bxxx.com Action: failed Status: 5.7.1 Diagnostic-Code: smtp;554 5.7.1 The message from () with the subject of (Re: Wacom Tab/ Signature Pad) matches a profile the Internet community may consider spam. Please revise your message before resending. Does anyone have any idea what would make OWA2003 fail, yet the same message sent through the same server succeed? Thanks in Advance! -Nate 

Where should I load iptables modules, for example ip_conntrack and ip_conntrack_ftp. Places I have found that might be candidates, but are they? 

I have now got everything to work and I was very close to the solution. It was a permission problem. This is how you add the auditlog to openldap installed on Centos 6. First enable the module. 

My solution Currently I'm using rsnapshot to make one local backup every day. Then storing weekly, monthly backups in the rsnapshot way. Then doing a full backup every month with tar, which I encrypt with gpg2 before sending to my friend. Then I do an incremental level 1 backup using the snapshot file from the full backup. But unfortunately this doesn't really work. Because each time rsnapshot is executed, my files get new dates and maybe other stuff. And it looks like tar only uses date to verify if the file has changed or not. Questions 

I found that my hardening script did a "blacklist usb-storage" in a conf file in /etc/modprobe.d. I had forgot about that. 

I'm trying to setup a mysql replication over an SSH tunnel. The odd thing about this setup is that I have one master with mysql 5.0.60sp1-enterprise-gpl-log and one slave with mysql 5.0.67-community-log. Could it be so that it's not possible to replicate between community and enterprise edition? As you can see in my log below, it's possible to login on the remote server with the mysql client. But the replication get "Can't connect to MySQL server on '127.0.0.1' (13)" Is it any log file I have forgotten to look in, to get more info? 

I have recently upgraded from Centos 5.7 to 6.3, and by that to a newer httpd version. I have always made my ssl virtualhost configurations like below. Where all domains that share the same certificate (mostly/always wildcard certs) share the same ip. But never got this error message before (or have I, maybe I haven't looked to enough in my logs?) From what I have learned this should work without SNI (Server Name Indication) Here is relevant parts of my httpd.conf file. Without this VirtualHost I don't get the error message.