Check the file and check the line . Make sure the xx is appropriate for your keyboard layout. You can set up the language and keyboard using the commands and . If the standard keyboard layouts don't match your keyboard, you can make smaller changes (with more work on your part) by reading the output of , and . 

is not intended to be functional in any way, it is simply intended to be safe for use in documentation. Any software that uses it will most likely generate error messages to the end user. You could use in your documentation sample code. Readers of that documentation sample code should NOT expect there to be a functioning MySQL service at that address. Readers should expect that they have to replace with the name of their own MySQL server. 

You can buy PCIe expanders that, for example, take a single 8-lane (x8) PCIe slot and connect it to an external chassis containing 8 slots - each 1 lane (x1). This doesn't increase the number of lanes available but can help rearrange them into a format that allows better use of slots and thus allows you to use more PCIe cards than your PC has PCIe slots. 

In traditional Unix/Linux permissions, give that user write access to the directory containing the file. A person can delete any file in a directory to which they have write access. To grant everybody permission to delete any file in a directory (and also to create files there) 

If the webmail server is behind a NAT router or firewall, you will need for port-forwarding to be configured. Once you (or a helper) understand that, you'll know what name to give gmail. 

No, general purpose PDF (or PS) tools (e.g. pdftk, psutils) don't offer this capability - I guess for a number of reasons Most PDFs are created for pages with a width-to-height ratio close to that of A4 or Letter-sized paper. Simply placing three pages in a vertical arrangement would leave excessively large empty margins to left an/or right of the text. There is also the distraction of repeated headers and footers. Because PDF is a final format based on drawing specified shapes at specified coordinates, it isn't possible to re-flow text and other objects in arbitrary PDF files. Can you set your tools to use a smaller font size? 

Yes, "Onavo extend" uses Onavo's servers to compress your data. The web-server serving the content presumably sees the Onavo server as the client. An ordinary proxy server inserts HTTP headers such as Forwarded-For. 

I believe aftab.cc is hosted by your-server.de who use Apache HTTPD and cPanel, If you google for "How to add a site to a cPanel hosting plan" you should find some useful videos and other tutorial material. Good luck. 

That message isn't one you normally see but it is quite correct. The process exited because it received a signal 2, the interrupt signal produced by Ctrl + C 

Windows applications typically rely on the BOM to identify the encoding of a Unicode file. Most of the applications allow you to specify an encoding in their "File, Open" dialogue. If you use that you shouldn't have a problem. 

A PC with two network interfaces, each connected to a distinct LAN, should be able to communicate with both LANs without need for virtualisation and without needing any special configuration. 

Putting a HD 7970 in the bottom slot looks a bit tight to me, with those other connectors under part of the HD7970. The case also needs to be able to accommodate a dual-width card in that position. It looks rather unconventional to me (but I don't build gaming PCs). 

There exist P2V tools to create VM images from existing (physical) systems but so far as I know, these do not take any account of existing hardware. You usually have to manually tweak the produced VM image to use the drivers for whatever hardware the virtualization software provides. The few virtualization tools I have used offer only a limited palette of hardware options. Given the incredibly vast numbers of distinct hardware products that have appeared in "old desktop PCs" since 1981 it is unsurprising that only a very few of the more common and recent products are emulated. Unless your application is not a typical desktop application, it won't care if the host CPU is AMD or Intel, it won't care if the disk is SCSI-UW2 or SATA, it won't care if the graphics adapter is an nVidia 8800 or a Radeon 5700, it won't care if the Mouse is a Logitech G9X USB or a MS Intellimouse 1.1 PS/2. I may be wrong but I imagine it might be more useful to think (and ask questions) in terms of emulation of general characteristics such as overall system speed and graphics resolution. Perhaps if you explain a bit more, people will be better able to provide helpful answers. 

Security risks SSH operates on a well-known port. You can reduce the number of criminal attacks by switching to an obscure port number (but note, obscurity is not security). These attacks are a nuisance which fill logs files and use resources. The biggest risk is that you allow password authentication in SSH. Most break-in attempts try thousands of combinations of popular user names ("root", "john" etc) and popular passwords. Sooner or later they will guess correctly. The best solution is to only allow key-based logins and restrict logins to a specific list of user IDs. Port Forwarding vs DMZ Some router vendors have misused the term DMZ to mean wildcard port forwarding. Strictly speaking a DMZ is an isolated LAN segment where you place public facing servers. If those servers are taken over by criminals, the criminals still have no access to your internal LAN (where you keep any confidential or valuable data). I would use both port-forwarding an a true DMZ where possible. Tunelling to SSH without port-forwarding. The only way is to set up a reverse-tunnel to an external rendezvous point. 

There are numerous tools that can be used to create backups which only copy changes Examples include 

That's not an encoding issue. The program whose output you are capturing is emitting ANSI control codes to set cursor position, foreground colour etc. When you use the control codes are processed by the tty and so don't appear in raw form. 

If your external IP address varies from time to time you may want to register an external domain or make use of a dynamic dns service (some of which are free) then you can use or respectively. 

tl;dr Other than the human eyeball, I know of no tool that can inspect a PDF and infer that the program used to produce the PDF has substituted a font. You could just assume that if Courier font is present in the PDF, something went wrong. A rough and ready check would be 

Which will show current offsets Note that NTP takes into account network latency. If you know each server's offset from a common NTP server, that is about as accurate as you can get using standard tools. 

If you generated the key pair on the server, you wouldn't copy the public key from laptop to server as the file would be generated on the server not laptop. Wherever you generate the keys, you need the private key on your laptop in the location and format expected by your SSH client software (e.g. PuTTY ssh client uses a different format than OpenSSH ssh client). You need to put the public key on the server in the OpenSSH format and in the appropriate ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file with owner-only permissions 

The LBP-810 is a GDI or host-based printer, this complicates things. My policy is to only buy printers that support PCL or PostScript so that I don't have this sort of problem. See HP Advisory for JetDirect which has some workarounds (for Centronics/Parallel connected printers not USB?) Canon's support page for the LBP-810 suggests a specific model Axis print-server (instead of JetDirect) 

Router In general if your router is capable of handing out IP-addresses by DHCP it is probably capable of acting as a DNS server and may have an option for adding statically defined IP-addresses to it's known list (I have a BT branded 2wire router that has this feature - I use it to enter names and addresses of statically configured PCs that don't use DHCP - the router provides DNS service that can resolve the names of these statically configured PCs). Other non-PC device If you have a home NAS or other "always-on" device, that would be a good candidate for providing DNS PC You can runs something like BIND (or preferably perhaps, something simpler) on any Linux or Windows PC. This isn't ideal if the PC is a personal desktop and other computers rely on it being turned on. 

if the output is empty the server thinks that terminal type (TERM) doesn't have that key. What is actually sent by Putty. To see what Home actually sends, run , press i (for insert mode) press Ctrl+V then press Home and press Esc to exit insert mode. Solution Adjust Putty config (or TERM) until what is sent matches what the other end expected. 

Well, if you don't specify a port number there will presumably be zeroes in that part of the API call. Port 0 is a reserved port and some implementations use it to mean a port is dynamically allocated by the system. 

You and your classmate may with the same ISP but you may not be connected to the same equipment at the local exchange. You may be sharing resources with more people (contention). Your PC may not be the same as your classmate, yours may have software that is using the Internet in the background - perhaps a peer-to-peer client that is sharing files. To really compare, you'd have to take the same notebook PC to both places (preferably freshly installed, or booting from a Live-CD) and run several sets of tests at various times over several days, aggregating the results in some meaningful way. 

The package maintainer chooses a name that they think makes sense. In the case of the Apache Software Foundation's "HTTP server" product, it makes sense to name the RPM after the specific program, not after the organisation as it produces many other products. 

If the output of those isn't clear or doesn't explain what you are seeing, cut & paste output into an edit of your question. 

is the ASCII control-code character. I believe is the ANSI terminal command sequence to reset the terminal. You can probably issue a (carriage return) to move the cursor to the left margin followed by (clear to end of line). If the output of step 4 is multiple lines, you need to issue the appropriate commands for move cursor to row, column and clear to end of screen. A search for "ANSI terminal control codes" should find useful reference material. 

so that output lines are obscured by error messages. If you refresh the page the output lines are shown correctly but you lose the error messages. When you exit less the screen is cleared except for a command prompt. If you do something like 

When your PC is turned on, it uses the DHCP protocol to request an IP-address and network settings, part of the information provided by the PC is it's name. The DHCP server remembers this and adds it to it's internal DNS database. This works when the same computer (your Cisco router) acts as both DHCP and DNS server. See DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) Basics 

In general you can't easily do this in any way that isn't painful. Scripts are plain text files (not non-text binary) that have to be readable by a script interpreter. The script interpreter runs using the ID and permissions of the user running the script. Therefore the script has to be readable by the user and can therefore be read directly without using the script-interpreter. There are ways of obfuscating scripts but that is just making life harder and not really preventing reading of the script. You could, in principle, create a Set-UID script-interpreter that when run, uses higher privileges and can therefore read a script file to which the user themself does not have read access. Some script interpreters are written deliberately so they refuse to run with elevated permissions in this way for security reasons. If you want to create a program whose source-code cannot easily be read, you can convert the script to a compiled language or make use of various hacks. But decompilers, disassemblers and other tools can often recreate readable source code from compiled code. 

Has the second page been set to print on the left hand page?. See "Layout", "Section Start" "Odd Page" 

Check the actual configuration using . Make sure the gateway is in the same subnet as the eth1 address. (Please edit your question and unobscure the netmask and the local part (last few X) of the addresses) Check routing using Check your configuration with with the persons who provide the gateway router. 

The omissions of a 1 superscript after the Y suggests can be made available by enabling the "LPR Port Monitor" using "Control Panel/Programs and Features/Turn Windows features on or off". 

Luckily, Microsoft can't have you declared an outlaw and therefore legally have a bounty-hunter slay you and seize all your possessions. I imagine they make some efforts to make life harder for people who willfully break the terms of the licences though. 

You might also want to read What is Akamai NetSession Client? and decide for yourself if the security concerns are credible. 

Sometimes a filesystem can, in error, get files cross-threaded. Meaning that the list of chunks for two or more files all contain a reference to the same chunk. This is probably especially likely to happen when resurrecting deleted files because much of the file metadata has been lost. Sometimes, when files are edited, the process creates many intermediate files that are created and deleted as needed. This strews unallocated disk space with multiple copies of fragments of the data. A later recovery process may have difficulty working out which fragments are part of files you want and which fragments are just detritus from editing, they all look similar.