Schemer is closing down, and I'm trying to preserve the text because there are many good ideas on the site. I'd like to get the text from within each of the links listed on the sitemap. Is there a way I can do this? HTTrack isn't working how I'd like it to. 

I'm currently using Malwarebytes Pro but want to have Windows Defender on as well since MAMB isn't really an antivirus. They're supposed to be compatible but for some reason I can't turn on Windows Defender; I see the message "Your PC isn't being monitored because the app's service stopped. You should restart it now." When I visit the process list, I see that WinDefend is in the "Stopped" state, and when I turn it on it flashed on for less than a second before going back to "Stopped". I've uninstalled Malwarebytes and removed anything related to it I can find (ProgramData, registry entries, etc.) but I still can't turn on Defender and get a timeout error any time I try to enable it. I've never tried to install any other antivirus so it's not possible that any remnants are conflicting. Additionally, Windows Update fails to install any Defender-related updates. What can I do? I know I could just get a different AV but I'd like to get this working. 

Right now I have a BT Voyager 2110 wireless router for the past 6 years or so. I recently bought a new Western Digital NAS but I'm only able to transfer data wirelessly at 2.5 MBps. If I physically plug into the router I get about 10 MBps, but that's still very slow, because I want to be transferring hundreds of gigabytes of data. My wifi card is a Dell 1397 WLAN Mini-Card which appears (according to the device properties) to be 802.11h+d. If I get a gigabit wireless router will this help? I don't want to spend more than 30 or 40 euro (or gbp or usd or whatever) on the device. At this price range could I expect to see a noticeable improvement? 

You can then navigate to the folder and view the contents of the NAS there. While this works, it doesn't automatically mount the NAS at start up. To do that, modify the file , adding a line to the bottom: 

I've tried restarting the computer but it doesn't help. What can I check to see if something is wrong or broken? How can I fix this? 

I've created a mount to my NAS in Raspbian. It works, and I can access it via the File Manager. Is it possible for me to put a link to the file manager which will open in that share's folder on the desktop? 

Something to keep in mind is you must be using a powered mic on many Macs. Unlike many Windows' PCs, you must have a mic that plugs into USB. Simply putting the mic jack inside the port will usually not work. Try finding a USB mic, or one that says it is powered. Good luck! 

Another choice here is Google Talk. A free, XMPP service that allows each device to have it's own phone number. You can talk right through the website if you use that. You may have to add a Microphone is necessary. Although, Scott's answer seems to give you more control and dependability. 

It is very possible that this is because of a fan issue. Make sure your fans are running well and that your computer is not overheating. Overheating on a computer will cause it to shut off immediately so that it won't ruin the hardware. If you have a broken fan, the machine will overheat quickly while playing a high performing game such as Diablo 3. If it is not overheating, then I would assume it has something to do with the Graphics card and OpenGL. 

Yes, if it comes with Windows 7, then install Windows 8, which will update your boot loader to allow you to access both partitions. Then install Ubuntu which will create a new boot loader with the ability to select Windows 8 or Earlier version of Windows (Or something close). I did this on my EEE pc and it worked fine (except XP instead of 7, but that should work fine). Now, a warning. NEVER, install ubuntu before Windows 8, if you install Windows 8 after Ubuntu it will change the boot loader and will only allow you to boot to Windows 7 and 8. You will have to reinstall the grub on Ubuntu in order to access it. 

I have Windows Firewall running. I created a rule called "AllowHTTPAccess" to allow TCP traffic on port 80 for Domain, Private and Public. She can ping me, but but she can't connect to the web server. Is there something I can do to get this to work? 

Every few weeks my computer will become unusably slow with lots of error messages e.g. "this or that has stopped working", or just won't boot into windows. I use the Windows Diagnostics / Fix utility thing to get the command prompt and run and my computer will be usable again.. for a few weeks until I have to go through the process again. Each time I run CHKDSK it'll report that it had to replace a number of bad clusters in files xyz. I've reformatted & reinstalled a few times and I get the same behaviour regardless. Does this mean my hard drive is slowing failing? 

Is there anything I can do to see what happened to it? Is there a chance it came loose? How can I check if it's fried? edit nobody stole my RAM. I didn't physically do anything to it. I have a Dell Studio Laptop. I'm running 64-bit Windows 7. I don't know exactly what else to specify, I'm not familiar with dealing with RAM. Update I ran a MemTest but it did nothing except confirm that I had 2 gigs of RAM that worked. I opened the laptop and took out the 2 GB module, putting the 4 gig module in its place. I powered up the laptop, and it reported 4 GB. I then put the 2 gig module in the old 4 gig slot, powered up, and the laptop reported 6 GB. The short story is that I don't know what the problem was, but it's no longer manifesting itself. Don't buy Dell. 

I was apparently using an older version of Mozilla as the browser within HTTrack. I changed the version to 4.0 and it worked fine. 

I'm trying to download the following site: $URL$ However, no matter what I try to do (get rid of the www, try other options than the "download website" one, etc) I keep getting a "HTTrack has detected that the current mirror is empty." error. Does anyone know how to resolve this? 

I have a SanDisk Cruzer that suddenly stopped being recognized today. It's two years old and has been through the washing machine a few times (though not recently) so it's entirely possible the hardware failed. What happens is this: I'll put it in the computer, the LED in the drive will turn on, and Windows will say that it doesn't recognize the USB. I've attempted to use recovery tools like Recova, but since it doesn't show up as an actual drive, they haven't found it. I've gone into Disk Management and it doesn't show up there, so I can't assign a drive letter. I've tried restarting, unplugging, reinstalling the drivers, but nothing has worked. Some of the files are pretty important; is there any inexpensive way to recover the data? I've been backing it up fairly regularly, so the only files I really need are from the last week or so, if that makes it any easier. 

I'm trying to use Windows Explorer. Whenever I launch the application, it appears to attempt to load This PC, but this runs indefinitely and never completes. This is the window I see: 

This does not require a username or password. In fact, I've never configured my NAS to have a username or password. If I want to configure a linux device to access the NAS via Samba it seems to require a username & password. Is it possible for me to do this without a username or password? 

If you want to mount the NAS and not require a username/password, you can mount it as a guest. Mount the NAS as a guest share, as follows. Make a folder on the Desktop called and type the following into the terminal: 

If you do want to specify a username/password, you can configure a user on the NAS (usually by browsing to the NAS's configuration interface) and specifying the username & password from there) 

Yes. Simply creating the folder myNas on the desktop, and then configuring /etc/fstab to mount the NAS at startup, e.g. 

We just purchased an iMac yesterday to view our travel videos. The thing is, all the videos we have stored on our external Hard Drive are in the .MTS file format (AVCHD). The thing is, the Mac or QuickTime won't recognize them. Are there any good / free file converters so we can convert the video files to .MOV as that seems to be the common file format for Macs. I read on-line that you can fool your computer into thinking that it is reading the video file straight from the Camcorder instead of from an external Hard Drive but you have to reorganize the storage or hierarchy of the videos. Apparently this can take up a lot of memory though - maybe up to 10 times the size of the original video file size? Is it a viable solution? What's the best / most straight-forward / preferably free way to get the videos into a usable format? 

Most likely the update that will be applied if I merge would fix my original problem, but I can't apply it without changes locally. If I don't change locally, I can't update. Is there an elegant solution to this that won't break my entire workflow. 

I need to run the "defaults" command from my code, but I can't just use "defaults write blah blah", instead I need the use the path for the defaults executable and then add the arguments later. However, I have been unable to locate the defaults executable. Where is it? Thanks. 

If you want to make "Modern" apps. That is the tile-based applications that work only on Windows RT, you can just head over to $URL$ That should give you all the information you need. And yes, if you create a Modern App, it will work on Windows RT, and Pro. The best way to distribute this is to sell it on the Windows 8 store. Good luck. 

Okay. So I have a few executable .sh files that backup a directory. In this case, the Development directory. I have two computers. A Mac (Which is the main computer, and a Windows 7 desktop.) Since my Mac only has 500 GB of storage, I want to back up data to the other computer. I do this wirelessly. To accomplish this, I have a shell script which checks whether I am connected to main-pc/Users/Public/. I know that the location isn't secure, and I will change the location in a few days, but for now, I just want it to work. Overall the script works fine, it makes sure the location exists, if I am not connected I have it set up to mount the computer. It copies everything correctly as well. EXCEPT, if the internet suddenly loses connections, or my connection to the other computer is interrupted (Which happens every now and then). When this happens, the location suddenly doesn't exist, and it keeps running the script, but does nothing and just does things like x -> y Location does not exist... Blah blah blah. My question is, how can I make sure that if I were to lose connection, it simply just pauses the backup and waits till the location connects? Is this even possible? I can't just recreate the location, as I am not storing this locally. Thanks. (And I realize it would be easier to just get an external drive, but what is the fun in that?) My script is pretty long, but here is the section that concerns the backup. 

I got a new Windows 8 laptop. It comes with Norton Internet Security pre-installed. Do I need this if Windows 8 comes with Windows Defender? Can I safely uninstall Norton Internet Security? 

I need to ensure the Process Model's Identity is configured with the correct permissions. Is there a way for me to view these? 

I bought a Windows 10 laptop from a Dell reseller (harveynorman.com.au) last year. Everything was good until I tried to reboot one day and it got stuck in a boot loop. I tried to automatically repair and that didn't work. I tried to restore to the factory settings, and it consistently freezes at 94.6%. I'll be starting a new job on Monday which requires that I have a functional laptop running Windows. What would be the quickest way to get Windows 10 freshly installed on that laptop? 

I have firebug installed, and it's indispensable as I'm a web developer, so I can't uninstall it. But when I load Gmail or CNN or various other websites, it always pops up and breaks on javascript errors. I have tried disabling the Script tab, but it still happens. I'm using Firefox 3.6 with Firebug 1.7.2 on Windows 7, but this also happens with Firefox 4 and the latest version of Firebug. Has anyone seen or heard of this? Any ideas how to resolve? 

You're good. You did your job, and from what it sounds like, the problem was not easily reproducible. This is Dell's fault. They really should be responsible for replacing it, but my guess is that this guy's warranty was up. Like nerdwaller said, make sure things are documented, just in case of a law suit, but I doubt this guy will do that. He just wanted to get you to pay. Unless there is some reason you would have been responsible for breaking the device, there is nothing the customer can do. It sounds more like an issue with the customers wireless access point. dsolimano may be right there. That is why you can not reproduce the issue. You did fine. Cheers! 

A host adapter is required for a network card, but the host adapter controls many different port. It connects network AND storage devices. "In computer hardware, a host controller, host adapter, or host bus adapter (HBA) connects a host system (the computer) to other network and storage devices. The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI, Fibre Channel and eSATA devices, but devices for connecting to IDE, Ethernet, FireWire, USB and other systems may also be called host adapters. Recently, the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs, which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines. There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters (CNAs)." (Wikipedia) As you can see, a network card is what you said, but the host adapter, controls things like ethernet, firewire, iSCI, SATA, and other kinds of storage devices. You can think of it as the device that controls external ports and network devices. The network card (Or network adapter), simply allows you to connect to ethernet. Other devices are needed here as well, including the Host Controller Interface: "A host controller interface (HCI) is a register-level interface that enables a host controller for USB or FireWire hardware to communicate with a host controller driver in software. The driver software is typically provided with an operating system of a personal computer, but may also be implemented by application-specific devices such as a microcontroller." The HCI requires a Host Controller Driver, or HCD. This is because the software side of things require it.