Microsoft SQL Servers do not allow the use of User Principle Name (UPN) addresses for service accounts. There is a post from a few years ago in Microsoft Connect and a more recent post: $URL$ $URL$ Therefore you need to stick with the DOMAIN\USERNAME format for the service accounts. (Original post failed to commit. Repost.) 

Create a table (perhaps in a different database) for the BLOBs of fingerprints then drop that column from the. That way when you you will not need to read the BLOBs from the table. This should greatly reduce the I/O requirements. If you want to manage the storage all from SQL Server, this would be the choice to make. It keeps the fingerprints in the database, but separates the I/O issues for general queries. Store each FingerprintBLOB as a separate file in a directory structure on disk. Keep the BLOB's in the . If you would like to keep the database space smaller and prefer to store on the file system then choose this approach. You can implement this on your own, which means you will need to manage the two separate backups: Database and File Structure. Or, a hybrid option is that you can use the SQL Server which can be used to write files to non-database disk, but still provide a single SQL Server BACKUP and RESTORE process that backs up both kinds of data. 

Of course licensing is a necessary part of Microsoft's business, so it is not surprising that the installation would enforce the limits that the purchaser is granted. Setting up a SQL Server Failover cluster for SQL Server 2012 (Standard as well as Enterprise editions) you must first: Create a New SQL Server Failover Cluster (Setup) Option 1: Integration Installation with Add Node (i.e. only 2 nodes permitted.) 

There really is not a One True Answer, but there are plenty of samples available on the web. One site is: $URL$ This is actually a site with many simple data models. I would not call these a complete solution, but it is a good resource for getting started. For a CD Collection there is a sample model, that focuses on content, not on the commercial side of selling content. $URL$ In addition if you search for something like example database model music you will find other examples. 

Maximum Degree of Parallelism: Limit parallelism to the number of physical cores in a single CPU socket, Cost Threshold for Parallelism: Start with 50 then tune up or down depending on your need. 

Of course, you would need to have a periodic check that would determine that apparently all 6 jobs will not finish and report failure. This little snippet of code is just a toy, not a serious production program. But perhaps it offers you an idea or two about how you might approach your problem. 

Using MAXDOP = 1 can be a help, but it is a big gun. It may be that the actual problem is the usefulness of the indexes. Perhaps a new or a different index would resolve the problem. Following Mr Denny and Aaron Bertrand's comments, did you discover what other waits in that connection were likely the cause of the CXPACKET waits? Jonathan Kehayias suggested a query that might help you assess you parallelism experience and make a more thoughtful decision. But you should also read the conversation between Jonathan and Paul White. $URL$ 

MariaDB comes in a few different forms: MariaDB is free and includes: Access all the features of MariaDB Server MariaDB Enterprise Subscription includes a number of other features and is priced per server. To look at the high-level features available see: $URL$ 

Returns 3 tokens: of-Department, of, Department In general a "-" is ignored when standing alone. However, depending on the Language choice in your Full Text Index, the "-" serves as a hyphen in text and may be reported as shown in the third example which includes "of-Department" as one of the tokens returned. 

This can help you filter the rows to only those with the same user. EDIT: Per your latest comment: To create a login for someone, and to make them a user of your database, you can read the KB article at: $URL$ (Look at the examples toward the bottom of the page.) Examples: -- Create a login for SQL Server by specifying a server name and a Windows domain account name. 

So I would say that, whatever the mechanism of the log backup, it will be available within the constraints discussed in their documentation. 

However it still exists in the stopped state. This is the state you are reporting as 'Paused'. If the stopped trace should be ended, then a second command is needed: 

The thing about indexes are that they are excellent tools for speeding up queries, but they bring along overhead as well. 

Having too many indexes can indeed cause performance problems. If many indexes have very similar statistics it is possible that the optimizer cannot reliably decide on the most useful choice of indexes. (I learned this when working with a database where almost every column was indexed.) In that case, we reduced the number of indexes significantly by removing indexes on columns that would seldom be used. This greatly improved the performance of our queries. In addition the too many indexes caused (1) more space to be used for little benefit and (2) consumed more server resources to keep all the excess indexes updated. So, yes, indexes can really help your performance, but you need to be reasonable in how many you create. Focus on the indexes that seem most useful to you. Additional Information: Many database vendors include tools to help you analyze the value and usage of the indexes. For example: 

You did not mention which database you are using, however trying to add a column that already exists will produce an error. All the databases that I have worked with require a column name to be unique within a table. (No room for two abcd_nid columns.) To update the column you use the standard UPDATE command. 

This means that your question about Clustered Indexes and Primary Keys is really about some of the following issues. Please note that not every table benefits from the same indexing plan. When would I benefit from the Primary Key being separate from the Clustered Index? Perhaps when the Clustered Index is Wide (for example, 5 columns of textual information, but the Primary Key is small (INT or BIGINT), such as you seem to be describing. 

You have left out some information needed to help you. All you have showed is the @TableTest and the insertion of data. 

Since your problem is a conflict between constant updates and being able to run reports without facing deadlocks, I would recommend you consider using isolation set ON. This also has overhead, but usually prevents most deadlocking situations. (Nothing is magic, of course.) You should read the details at: $URL$ Note that there is overhead in required in order to hold a consistent view of the data, which is needed to avoid the deadlocks. There is another isolation level that can be turned on per transaction. Since this changes the blocking behavior, you may run into some transactions that need to be tuned or given a new index in order to avoid problems. Therefore, if you use the isolation level, which works fine for me, you will need to monitor it until you are sure that all is well in your instance. 

The advantage is that the role can have more that one AD group added to it. Likewise, if the AD Group is removed, the permission sets remain in place. That way the original AD Group, a new AD Group or groups, could be added without needing to redefine the rights. And, of course, more than one AD Group can use a role and an AD Group could use several roles. It all depends on how you want to use and reuse permissions. If the rights are granted directly to an AD Group, then dropping the group also drops the rights that the group had. Which would mean recreating those rights if you need them elsewhere. 

So, yes Maximum Performance (ASYNC transport) and Redo Apply have real meaning, but part of the meaning is that some data can be lost in case of a failure. You should also consider the network latency for the ASYNC transport target server, since that will also affect responsiveness. 

Although I find simple Clustered Indexes and Primary Keys useful there are some good reasons for thinking through whether to use them in a table or in a database. Do you need a Clustered Index at all? 

Does the imply that you are normally running in recovery model? If so, the logs from the mode period are discarded once they are no longer needed. There is no time machine to go back and recover the logs that were not saved. So, to interpret your script: