This allows all users who are members of either the Students/Staff AD groups access to pages behind $URL$ without needing to specify login credentials provided their IE/Firefox are configured properly. The userPrincipalName was used instead of sAMAccountName because the kerberos module was passing the username@REALM to the ldap module. Now I have the problem where if someone isn't authorized they are presented with: Authorization Required This server could not verify that you are authorized to access the document requested. Either you supplied the wrong credentials (e.g., bad password), or your browser doesn't understand how to supply the credentials required. Does anyone know how to have it pop up a username/password dialog box so they could try alternate credentials? After unsuccessfully gaining authorization, the only way I can get it to ask for credentials is to clear out my cache. If I am logged in to the PC as an authenticated user but one that isn't authorized to this resource I have no way of suppying alternate credentials (which may be a good thing). 

When receiving mails from Blizzard the log looks the same, except that the "lost connection" line is missing. I suspect that the StartSSL certificate may not be trusted by these two (and possibly more) companies and that I have to buy a certificate from a large, "trustworthy" CA. Can anyone tell if my suspicion is correct or if there are any mistakes I could've made in my postfix configuration? Thanks a lot in advance for any help. Edit: This is my output from a telnet session: 

Update I have been able to reproduce the problem in a smaller scale using a simple php script that attempts an LDAP bind. From that script I got more debug output which lets me identify the actual problem. So I am rewriting this question. Scenario I am trying to set up an LDAP environment on my Debian Wheezy server. I want to secure the communication with the server using a valid SSL certificate (meaning, it is not self signed). I am using a self compiled version of OpenLDAP because the latest version in the Debian repository does not support SHA2 password hashes. Problem Details I can use this simple php script to try to bind to my LDAP server. 

I plan on using ExpressionEngine as my CMS on an intranet, IIS server. The reason I want to use IIS is to take advantage of the ability to restrict certain active-directory groups to certain pages. For example, only the student group can access intranet/students, and staff can only access intranet/staff But where my problem comes into play is that ExpressionEngine templating system is a little complex. It is completely database driven, which by default you can only edit the templates within their web based template editor, but there is a setting you can enable to save each template as a flat file, and it will automatically save the template as "nameoftemplate".php, so in my example, it would be news.php For example, there are template groups, which have templates within them. For example, the students template group may have 4 or 5 templates, so the URL's to them would be: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ and the same goes for staff. As you see, the URL is $URL$ that is the URL for being on campus, for accessing the intranet from off-campus, you'd have to type in $URL$ Going back to how the CMS works with templates... The student news template ($URL$ is located at /web/system/templates/students/news.php On an apache server, I could edit the config to restrict access to a certain active-directory group based on its URL and not the remote path (/web/system/templates/students/news) of the file. You're probably wondering why I just don't go down that path and use that...because it will ask you to log in with your username & password whether you're accessing it from campus ($URL$ or off-campus ($URL$ I want to be able to let the users on campus view $URL$ without having to log in, but if they access it from off-campus...then it will ask them to log-in. They all use IE7 and are use to being able to access their appropriate areas without ever being asked to authenticate, and if they were to be asked now...it would flip their work-lives upside down (yes...it is sad) This may not be possible, but either way let me know. 

Nope, nothing can be done. You cannot do this with xinetd. It appeared working for me, but then I realize that most of the IP addresses in the log are still 127.0.0.1. I finally managed to get Tomcat running as (mostly) restricted user using jsvc with the --user option. It is also possible with iptables. 

If I put the entry into /etc/hosts.deny, would it block all requests from that IP address to my machine (like iptables do), or would it only block access for some applications like SSH? 

The plates can be removed, cleaned up and installed into another (new) hard drive. Cylinders that are fully outside the hole area should be readable no problem. This means, majority of the content, if there is only a single small hole. The plates may be re-balanced by drilling another hole of the same diameter in the opposite side. Some means must be taken to prevent heads running over the holes, but looks possible. 

inside my script. This proves that php doesn't use my . Would it be a reasonable solution to put this enviroment variable in my phpldapadmin configuration? Other non-php LDAP client tools, such as work perfectly. Does anyone have an idea what could cause the php ldap client library to not find/use my ? System Configuration slapd.conf 

I recently changed my postfix installation to use TLS with a certificate issued by StartSSL. I then ran SMTP and TLS checks with no errors or warnings. Everything seemed to work fine. My problem now is, that receiving mails doesn't seem to work in every case. There seem to be mail servers I cannot receive mails from. These are for example Amazon or Blizzard. In Amazon's case my postfix log has this to say: 

So it is obviously a certificate problem. I guess, that the php ldap library for some reason doesn't find/use my (which is located under ) and therefore doesn't use the TLS_CACERT provided there. I tried symlinking to , which normally is the default location. That sadly didn't work either. Update I was able to get it working by putting 

Place the root administration machine into the room locked with two keys, and give only one for each of the two admins. The admins will always work together, observing each other activities. It should be the only machine containing the private key to login as root. Some activities may need no root rights, so only part of the work would require to go to that room for "pair programming" You may also video record activities in that room mostly for making more sure that nobody works alone (that much is easily visible). Also, make sure the working place is such that screen is easily visible for both people (maybe large TV screen with the big fonts). 

Also check if you have configured the RemoveIpValve on Tomcat properly. For the configuration like yours, conf/server.xml should contain something like