This sounds like some remote desktop. Windows Professional supports it, but you'd need a computer that operates as the host; it's not really transferring state to another machine. 

I doubt the following helps, but I cannot test it. Still, maybe it helps you find a solution... Maybe MarcoPolo can help. It can trigger an action (like: enable bluetooth) when some condition is met (like when some application starts running, or maybe when you are out of reach of some network). So: if for tethering you start some specific program: 

As "^" is ASCII 94 (decimal), "Ctrl-^" might represent ASCII 30. Hence, holding down Alt and typing 30 on the numeric keypad might do the trick to "type" Ctrl-^? 

Actually, Jeff's post is not about email. And HTML in email kind of has its own capabilities, nicely summed up in CampaignMonitor's Guide to CSS support in email clients. So, for starters: don't take HTML to extremes in email. Next, the easiest way to allow an email client to clean up (and to add a plain-text alternative to the message as well): just copy from Word and paste into that email client. So: do not manually use Save as HTML. If that doesn't work for you: what if you set up Word to be the editor in your email client? (Rather than saving as HTML manually, and rather than copy and paste, maybe Word works differently when invoked from an email client.) And above all: what features are you missing in the editor that is built-in of your email client? (Most clients work fine, using enriched text rather than full blown HTML.) 

Unix, Windows and Mac systems all have their own newline characters. When transferring files as ASCII, most FTP clients convert these newlines if applicable. So: one could set up Filezilla to handle text files as ASCII. However, it seems that the newlines in the files on the server do not match the operating system of that server. Hence, when using automatic conversion, things get messed up. So, like @Manni suggested: you need to ensure all files are handled as "binary", not as ASCII. (Note that many other files, such as program files, Word documents, music and images always need to be transferred as "binary", to ensure no automatic conversion is done.) 

If it's sufficient detailed for you: pressing Option while clicking the AirPort icon in the menu bar displays more details for your current connection, and enables tooltips for all other networks in that list. 

Seems to me that every line has a single hyperlink, covering the number, Tab character and its title. Next, in the PDF, this is split up in three parts, due to the absolute positioning of the text in the PDF. I'm quite sure you'll get a Tab character when copying that second hyperlink. 

So, if this causes IE9 to crash, then be happy you won't see this in many other sites (if any). Apart from reporting this to Microsoft (they'll be thankful), reporting to the webmaster of that site will be appreciated too! As for the endless loop: maybe temporarily disabling your network/internet connection stops IE from doing this? 

Small chance (as you did not have this problem in 10.5 Leopard): is SuperDuper! overwriting the whole disk each time? If so, then it might also remove some hidden file that tells Time Machine you want to ignore that disk. (I'm just guessing; maybe that setting is kept in some extended attribute rather than in some hidden file.) If it indeed uses some hidden file, and if SuperDuper! deletes that, then maybe you can set that hidden file to be read-only for SuperDuper!? (Funny !?... ;-)) (Hmmm, this discussion might cover it: Did you schedule an erase-then-copy backup, rather than a Smart Update? This is the kind of thing that TM does when a new drive appears... But you're using Smart Update already.) Still, Time Machine being switched off, it should not bother you in the first place, so something surely is wrong. Maybe just remove and disable it again? 

So, if you cannot see the onscreen dialog, maybe just press the cursor-left key three times and press Enter? And according to the same resource: 

UPDATE I just read that is not important at all and is automatically generated. So I guess I am wrong here, also given the key as mentioned by @routeNpingme. I'll remove this later today; just leaving it here to ensure others don't waste their time on the same thing. 

Hence, if both the above "OS X has an incomplete ACPI implementation" and your quote "HP generally seems to write exceptionally bad ACPI code" are true, then patching the DSDT might result in a better match, and thus make OS X work better with your non-Apple hardware? 

Given my problems with a modern but non-Apple base station and an older AirPort Express, I assume a wireless-to-wired bridge needs Apple's WDS capabilities (and hence when reading question 2, I assume one should take question 1 into account as well). (See also Apple's early 2009 Apple AirPort Networks manual for more information.) 

Errrr, the function is the link. There's no such thing as a clickable link without that function. (Consider this: which value would you expect when pasting something that is both a clickable link and a title? C2 or A2?) You could replace the function with just C2. After that, using Paste Values will give you a non-clickable link. (But: you would already have that very same non-clickable link in C2 itself, so in the end that's useless.) Or, if you expect some HTML magic: use something like the following, which is not clickable in Excel, but may be helpful when you use the result elsewhere: 

So, you're seeing how much the file was compressed, not some progress of the action itself. It can even show negative values. Like if you wanted to test for yourself, and for that first generate a binary test file with random values, which is hard to compress: 

OS-provided high-contrast settings have nothing to do with CSS. (Or with browsers for that matter; a browser will be totally unaware of such settings, and will NOT change any CSS for system wide high-contrast settings.) I don't think you will find any tool that "adjusts" the CSS to make up for high-contrast settings. (Maybe there are online tools, just like Vischeck can show you what things look like to someone who is color blind. But if a similar tool exists, I am actually not sure how that would help any developer who does not need high-contrast settings, in determining if someone else can view the website... So, such online tool would then need to "convert" high-contrast for those with normal vision, to get some idea of what a visually impaired person would experience.) 

I've never used it with POP, but why not enable IMAP instead? That surely worked for me. For OS X Leopard and earlier be sure NOT to select "Exchange" in Mail, but use IMAP. Up to Snow Leopard, Apple Mail does not support the Calendar and Contacts anyway, so using IMAP works just as well. According to Mail 3.5 help: 

(To see the decimals after dividing by 1,000, you might need to set the formatting of the result cells to actually show the decimals. If not, then might show as instead.) I cannot test this as a macro (OpenOffice.org has a different syntax), but maybe this gets you started. Totally based on some quick Google-fu to translate the above though: 

And indeed, using Apple Mail I can use such addresses with my own catch-all domain without any problems. Update: also, using Apple Mail I can send to such address through an Exchange server. And I even logged in to work, and using Outlook 2007 I have no issues either. What if you explicitly add the user to your Outlook's address book? Are you sure the single quotes did not somehow get converted into curly quotes? Or, another update: you can test using Gmail aliases, like . Again, no trouble here. 

(Funny: the rendering of the backtick is slightly different in text and in lists. Favouring lists then...) 

You might not really need a script. To show any symbolic links in just the current folder, without recursing into any child folder: 

If I recall correctly then opening a document while an empty, non-modified document is open, will automatically close that non-modified default document? Simply skip step 2 then. 

Do you ever get that same error without , after the first SSH session has been established? It's odd that your "If I remove only one of the machines [..] it works correctly" seems to say that 2 machines work, but a 3rd yields problems. If supports multiple X-forwarded connections, then it might just be a matter of doing things more slowly? That can best be tested without I guess. And what if you change the order of the machines? It guess that this file is on the remote machine, but I am no expert. (If in your question was in fact a more specific directory, then you can probably easily tell if it's local or remote.) So, odd question: are you sure that all 3 machines are really different machines, and that no-one else is using the same account? From : 

Thunderbird uses large files to store multiple messages. When deleting, it only marks the message as deleted. You need to compact the folders to reclaim the space used by deleted messages: 

I guess that's true then, which first caused the login to fail (where the "expired" message might be inaccurate?) and then caused the website itself to fail. Note that Microsoft uses many IP addresses for their Live services. From The Netherlands: 

The parameter defines the last access time. Seems you want that? But that is apparently not the same as the date you use in Finder. See for the date uses. Mac OS X also uses the "HFS meta data" (or: "Finder info") to store dates. For example: Unix does not store file creation dates. The in Unix is really the change date (including, for example, changes in access permissions, so gets a new value in slightly different occasions than the modification date for ). Using this metadata, Mac OS X can still keep the details. There are several options to show (some of) those dates, like: 

When, once starting to tear it off, the sticker gets damaged: apply cold water (like a damp cloth) to it for half an hour. (Don't use hot water though. Probably won't help with these "metallic" stickers that won't let the water go through.) 

Though online services are off-topic on Super User, this may have a more generic cause: spam filtering based on SPF records, causing receiving email servers to reject your message if your domain has indicated that email should only be sent from certain IP addresses. You can use some online tools to see if your domain uses SPF records. If it does, then email is best to be sent through the IP addresses listed in those records. So, when using Gmail in Mail.app, use Gmail's SMTP server as well, not your own ISP's server. When your own domain or work email uses SPF (maybe through Google), you might need to use some specific server too. Online email-based services for testing SPF are available as well. Apart from SPF: maybe you're using a shared IP address that is somehow blacklisted? 

The passphrase is the password. When done right, it is a long password though. (However, as you also have a Hex version, it seems you're not using WPA or WPA2? WEP is not very secure, so change to WPA2 if possible, or WPA as your second choice! Also note that WEP has some problems with non-standard password lengths. Choose 5 characters for a 40 bit WEP, or 13 characters for 128 bit. Still, use WPA2 when possible!) 

Your website uses Google website optimizer to do a so-called A/B test. This will randomly show some visitors (in your case: some browser) another page. Removing 

You can map a remote SFTP folder to your local computer using SSHFS with FUSE for OS X (based on the old MacFUSE, which does not work on 10.6+). After that, all usual tools such as rsync are available to you: