You can grant the Service Start/Stop right for the SQL Server and Agent service to the Developers or their Windows group. You can use 

KB 3034297 - Cumulative Update 6 for SQL Server 2014 describes the issue that you are encountering and is fixed in SQL Server 2014 CU6 

No, the main concern is what events have you configured to being trace. Also, you can have a job that puts all your trace files to a different server and you do processing of trace files using RML utility away from PROD server. You can even have a WMI alert that will fire and push that trace file on a different server. 

Your scenario is possible. AG1 and AG2 should be different availability groups. Also, all the 3 servers should be part of same Windows cluster. The only problem that I can see is if goes down (for whatever reason, blue screen, disk failure, or any disaster) then you will loose DR for and both at the same time. Also, when a failover occurs from both and should be powerful to support the load interms of CPU, DiskIO and Memory. 

Use T-sql to query sys.databases and backup your databases. one free solution is to use Ola's backup solution 

table or view using fast-load options is selected, then you have to explicitly specify FIRE_TRIGGERS in the advance editor as shown below : 

disable all backup and copy jobs on primary and secondary. manually run the copy and restore jobs couple of time to ensure that all the log backups are applied to secondary. remove logshipping using GUI restore database on secondary using NORECOVERY - if db is readonly or standby mode. Enable mirroring using scripts or wizard 

Also, you can use the Data Conversion transformation, which is probably easier if you are only changing the data type. EDIT: You can also look for an option of SSIS GoogleAnalyticsSource from codeplex. 

Try Version 7.0 available here that supports Operating system: Windows XP/2003/Vista/Server 2008/7. Look like Microsoft does not have it on their site. the latest is 8.0 which supports only Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 8 Pro, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012, Windows Vista Business, Windows Vista Enterprise, Windows Vista Ultimate. NO Windows 2003 support. some good links can be found at MAP Toolkit Useful References 

Based on my understanding, the master server (MSX) cannot be a target server (TSX) that receives jobs from another master server i.e You cannot list one MSX server into another MSX, you have to defect it and make sure it is not enlisted with any other master server. Its a simple two-level hierarchy: a server is a master server, a target server, or neither. Cannot be both at the same time. FROM BOL : 

You can happily do ONE-WAY logshipping from lower version to higher version. The only caveat is that once you failover to higher version, you cannot failback to lower version... same applies to Database Mirroring. This technique is normally used when you want to do migration from lower version to higher version with minimal downtime. 

When you do Export data from the database (using the wizard - Import\Export) select -- write a query to specify data transfer. 

Read Step by Step Guide to Setup a Dedicated SQL Database Mirroring(DBM on dedicated Nic card) It shows you how to configure Mirroring on Dedicated NIC card. Network configuration plays an important role in the performance and safety provided by database mirroring. Also, worth reading Database Mirroring Best Practices and Performance Considerations whitepaper. 

You don't have to be fancy/worried or scared when you are restarting sql server. Just make sure that you dont have any long running transactions. Best is to restart sql server using console or shutdown command during a low/minimum activity period also called maintenance window to minimize impact on your business. If you have any DR setup and you dont want to be down, then best is to failover and then restart the passive or secondary node. Clean Shutdown SQL Server occurs in below scenarios : 

This is not true. The mechanism is different. Mirroring will flush the log block to disk and once completed locally, it sends the block to secondary. AlwaysON flushes the log block(s) in parallel. A secondary could have hardened log block(s) before the primary I/O completes. This design increases performance and narrows the NOT IN SYNC window(s). 

Use Ola's solution to do backup on PROD server and then schedule the script in SQL Agent job to a. do backup, b. copy the backupfile to test server and c. restore the backup on the test server. use PowerShell to do the job. 

I have designed a database archiving process - which is a semi automated process. Below are my thoughts : Note that you have to develop your custom solution based on your organizational needs 

What you are telling is possible. Since you are running Standard Edition of SQL Server you have to bear following things : 

The only downside will be that updating stats will result in query recompilations occurring more frequently that are accessing the tables and hence a different plan is generated which might be good or bad. 

put that in a .bat file and schedule it with windows task scheduler else if you have a sql server running that you have proper access, you can schedule that with sql agent. If you have sql server running with sql agent access, then you can even use linked server to execute SP remotely. Also, as Thomas mentioned, PowerShell is one option too. 

You are correct in the steps but your approach is way too much for a little work. For disk maintenance, why would you shutdown the entire cluster ? Just suspend that disk (which requires maintenance) and then once it is done resume the node. Basically, will stop all the roles and services on all the nodes of the cluster. The Cluster UI will ensure that all the roles and services are shutdown gracefully. Seems like you have posted the same question at SQLServerCentral.com Refer to How to Properly Shutdown a Failover Cluster or a Node 

SQL Server 2016 will log the message by default when Instant file Initialization is enabled ... Obviously, you can use xp_cmdshell or tsql way. Good PFE blog reading : How and Why to Enable Instant File Initialization 

Make sure that you have replicate schema changes enabled. there wont be any downtime as Replicate Schema Changes 

why isn't it possible to access the data directly from the table discarding the B-tree? (most likely by scanning the table row by row) wouldn't that be more appropriate than inaccessible data at all? To answer your question, Indexing basics comes more handy -- An index is made up of a set of pages (index nodes) that are organized in a B-tree structure. This structure is hierarchical in nature, with the root node at the top of the hierarchy and the leaf nodes at the bottom. For more details refer here. Also, as many people have described, Clustered Indexes == Original tables which are physically ordered with one or more keys or columns. So, when a clustered Index is disabled, its data rows cannot be accessed. You wont be able to Insert any data (for Non Clustered Index the Insert will succeed -- but that is not entirely related to this post -- as here the discussion is of Clustered Index) as well or neither Reorganize operation will work. Below will explain you in detail : we will use Adventureworks database to see the effect of disabling the CLUSTERED Index.