If I run command, system return 73 records. But, column value for every record is . What does this mean? 

My application is running on MySQL 5.1.58 community edition. As I studied on SO websites that After acquisition by Oracle, new InnoDB plugin has been released and MySQL 5.1 with InnoDB plugin is the best for performance. Below is the command which displays the current InnoDB configuration in my system: 

Even, I am facing bad performance of my application. DB connections become high >100 and system starts running slower. It become dead when DB connection reached to around 200. While we defined MAX connection=800. I already tried multiple things like - MySQL configuration variables tuning Identified and improved the bad performing queries Above steps helped a little bit but still facing very bad performance. It is just like I am swimming in the ocean without any expertise and life saving boat. Now, I am planning to upgrade MySQL from 5.1 to 5.6 as well as switching from Windows to Linux. I guess as Open source - Linux must have multiple tools to measure performance and tuning tools for Windows. But, before this I want to be sure about below things: 

I have partitioned a table on the basis of one flag column have value either 0 or 1. Now, I want to roll back these tables. How can I do this? 

My application is running on MySQL 5.1.58 community edition. I tried to search enterprise edition of MySQL 5.1.X but only MySQL 5.6.X version of enterprise edition is available. Is it possible to download MySQL 5.1.x enterprise edition - trial version? I want to compare the performance testing with the community edition of MySQL 5.1.X 

There are multiple views behind the logic of creating composite index in a table. Creating composite index is obvious when we have composite primary key. Beside this, we create composite index on the basis of our SQL query requirements. Ordering of column in a composite index plays a vital role in the selection of right index in query execution which improves the performance. If a composite index has only 2 columns then its easy to determine their order. 

I got below message: Starting MySQL.Manager of pid-file quit without updating fi[FAILED] Now, I am unable to connect MySQL database. 

You have not mentioned but looks like you are using MySQL 5.6 version. is a counter variable which stores the value of all tables opened by queries since start of the MySQL service. 

So, Value of should be 512MB. To achieve this, I have written below line in and tried to restart it. 

Now, to verify whether InnoDB is available or not, I ran command. But, InnoDB is not listed in that. Then, I ran command below command: 

What is the best way to handle datetime comparison towards improving such queries. Below is the table structure: 

ha_innodb_plugin.dll and ha_innodb_plugin.pdb are available in the above plugin directory. Now, when I check using command, I can't see InnoDB entry in the resultset. Please answer me below things: 

I have a complex query including join of 4-5 tables. 1 months back, I have optimized this query and it was using the index. Also, . Just few days back, I found that this query is appearing in slow query logs again. When I analysed it, I found that one table in this query is not using index which prompts to higher join size as well as higher execution time. As a solution, I executed command on the table which was skipping the index. As a result Query again started to use that index and not appearing in slow query log. Now, I have below question regarding the above analysis: 

I checked and found that pluginis active. By default, Innodb_log_file_size=5MB. As per the MySQL Documentation, 

I am using Oracle LINUX5. I installed MySQL 5.1.73 community edition through RPM command and it was working. Now, I stop mysql by running below command: 

Which join is better peforming if all of them provides the same result? For example, I have a two tables and . To get some specific results both and gives the same result. But, I have still some doubts which is not limited to this question only. 

I have a menu which is parent of multiple menu items and each child menu has their own child menus. This pattern is continued till 5-6 vertical hierarchy level. I don't want to write a query which contains nth level subquery as below: 

I have two database servers - one is and another is with similar hardware configuration. Both OS are 64 bit. MySQL 5.1.58 community edition is installed on Windows servers while MySQL 5.1.73 is installed on Oracle Linux. Same database is installed on both servers - i..e same number of tables with same data. At a time, if I run `show global status like 'Qcache%' on both servers and below is the comparison result: 

On execution, I got rows. When I execute I got rows and on the execution of I got rows. Below is the explain result of above query: 

Then, tried to restart mysql service but it failed. When, I changed the datadir as it started working. 

and uncommented these variables for InnoDB.In default file, it was commented even INNODB was active. 

But, the above directory has space crunch. So, I decided to change the path. I found directory has enough space. So, I created under and assign permission (chmod) as . Then after, I changed the below values in mysql configuration file: : 

Please note that I have only two log files -one is for slow query log file and another is error log. 

I have installed MySQL-5.6.x community edition on RHEL5. It was running fine. Since, it is my testing server. To find the differences in execution timing, I have to install the MySQL-5.1 community edition again. So, I decided to uninstall MySQL-5.6 first. To do this, I followed below steps: 

I am unable to find where I did the mistake? Can you please help? Adding the way, issue has been resolved But don't know the way is correct or not!: Checking error log certainly helped here. On the basis of error log: 

If we see on algebric calculation behind Union operation then it should be max(No(a)+no(b)). Now, I am unable to understand behind above result. How MySQL perform Union operation? 

I have migrated my Database from Windows to Linux server. In many places, query has been written without focusing their cases (uppercase / lowercase). So, these queries are not getting executed and generating errors. As a result, functionalities based on these queries are breaking. Below is the example query to run in Windows and Linux: 

For example: as per MySQL datatype tutorial MEDIUMINT has 3 Bytes storage and can contains value from to . 

I did not get any message after executing the above command. When I run below command to start the service: 

I found my answer and I want to laugh on myself... What a silly mistake I did! Sharing this solution so that others can save their time. I just prefix sudo command in the below statement and mysql started. 

Sysbench is a tool to analyze the MySQL performance. I downloaded it and extracted but there is no executable file. Files having extensions like or or are available. I gone through the documentation. Even, I did not get any info about how to install and use this great tool on Windows machine? 

My question is not limited to Mediumint and int datatype. It is for all numeric datatypes which MySQL support.Please provide your suggestions as per the concern I raised. 

I have installed MySQL 5.1.73 in Oracle LINUX 5 server. Just after RPM installation, I checked system variables and found that version is 5.1.73-community. When I copid I got 5.1.73-community-log as value of version variable. I am curious to know about what is the difference between 5.1.73-community and 5.1.73-community-log 

Also, I don't want to write a script for this. There should be something in MySQL to fetch such result. Can someone guide me about how can I achieve my result in the best way? 

I have keen interest in database and since start of my career I worked only in MySQL. But, I have not any professional certification related with MySQL. I have below concerns for certification: 

Since MySQL 5.5 database has been added likewise . As we know that tables in information_schema contains statistical information like tables, plugins, partitions, processlist, status and global variables etc. Just like, performance_schema contains a lot of tables. 

After installing MySQL-5.1.73, I placed default my-huge.cnf into /etc/my.cnf and started the mysql service. It was running without any issue. Now, I tunned some parameters in /etc/my.cnf file. Below are the parameters which I changed. 

Before taking the backup, you should know few things: 1. Default storage engine: If it is . You should run and check the value. If it is - there is a single file for data and index. So, You can't copy by database by just copying the directory. Also, copying database by copying the directory is not recommended way. There are two ways to export the backup. 1st way: The way through which you are taking the backup - using or other . Its easy if your Database size is less. 2nd way: Use commands to export and import the data. These commands (mysqldump for export and source for import) are inbuilt in MySQL. This post would be very useful for using commands either on terminal (Linux) or command prompt (windows). You would have a lot of flexibilities also when use these commands. Before importing, please check the storage engines on the destination server. Use the first query I have written in this answer.