The Pi's might be the best option. This way, you can even identify each Pi over the network. Another advantage to this method is that it shows the hostname (by default) at the beginning of each line in the command line. For example: If you had ten RPis in room A-14, then you could change the hostname on each one to: 

I see two ways of doing this: 1. UUID Based You could write a very simple script, possibly in Python, to check for a specific UUID to be plugged into the Pi. The script would then shutdown the Pi. It would go something like this: 

There is no way to draw 600mA at 12V from any pins (especially GPIO) on the Pi. You could use an external power supply with a relay that is controlled by the Pi'should GPIO pins. I've needed to draw 6v at 120mA before, and what I did was cut the cable on my power supply and attach a relay to it, with the relay controlled by one of the Pi's pins, from there I wrote a very simple Python program to turn the relay on/off. 

With the release of the Raspberry Pi Model B 3 today, I'm sure we're all very excited to see the speed of this new Pi. The standard clock is 1.2Ghz, but I'd like to push mine further. I know the Pi 3 uses the 64-bit BCM2837 processor, but I couldn't find any fact sheets on the BCM2837, as all search results for it are about the Pi 3. Does this new processor have any overclocking abilities? Or is it like the Pi Zero, which came at it's maximum clock speed? 

This power bank ($12, but I'm sure you can find it cheaper elsewhere) can be charged while it is powering the Pi, I've used it for some time now on my Zero. It's only 2400mah, but I know that all of the power banks made by iLive can do this because I've used almost all of them, at some point, to do this. 

After this, reboot and if you do you should still see . This worked for my Pi 2 running Raspbian Jessie Lite, which shouldn't be any different from Jessie in this aspect. 

You don't have to buy a powered usb hub, but it is highly recommended especially if you are using an external hard drive. The external drive may need more than 1A at a given time, so setting would be a bad idea. Also, USB cables that provide 2A rarely actually provide 2A, this has been discussed many times on this site before. You can go ahead and not buy the powered hub, and plug in all your stuff, but if you see the red PWR light on the Pi shut off, or even blink, while it is plugged in, then you need a powered usb hub. (If the PWR light turns off/blinks it indicates that the voltage has dropped below 4.75v) 

I would like to make a music visualizer, but I need to know the intensity of the music playing. The music is playing from my Pi, so if this is possible without a mic that would be great but I'm assuming it's not. Is there a command line tool that returns the audio intensity from the mic at a given time? 

Adding before a command runs the command as if you were the user . Some commands require to be run as because it is the highest user by default. When you run you are running from . If you just type you are running from your current user, which may not have the necessary permissions to enter system commands like that. 

Yes. It is very simple to do this. When running the command to start the VNC server on your RPi, add the parameter for resolution. EX: If the resolution of your screen is 1920x1080, like mine is, then run: 

I have a Pi camera V2.1 and a Pi Zero V1.3 with an adapter cable for the camera. I made sure to connect it correctly on both sides, metallic connections towards the green PCB. I have done a and a and I have enabled the camera via and rebooted. When I run the command I get the following error: 

You can make a cronjob by editing your file. Here is what you will want to do: Install , that way you can resume it in your terminal when you want to. You can install by entering: 

I have a micro SD card that I am planning on using with a Raspberry Pi Zero, I do not have a mini HDMI to full HDMI adapter, but I do have a Raspberry Pi 2 Model B, say could I image the card, do the first boot on the Pi 2, have it install Raspian, format wifi/serial and then put it in my Pi Zero? Would that work, or do the Pi's install differently based on their model? 

I followed this tutorial here: $URL$ I am trying to connect my Galaxy Note 5 to my Pi over a USB Bluetoothub module. When I use the command my phone asks for a pin number, I type 1234 and everything is great. But when I want to pair the devices for Rfcomm0 with the command my phone asks for a pin number again, and no matter what four numbers I type in it always rejects the connection. How can I use a Bluetooth console with my phone? 

I get no errors or anything when booting, it just never even attempts to start . The only thin it mentions is that is the only thing in my entire boot sequence that says anything about network or internet or anything. 

I am accessing two of my Pis via a serial connection on pins 8 and 10. One of them uses a serial to USB connector for my Mac and the other uses an HC-06 which connects to my Android. The console/terminal over serial is very bland and colorless, unlike the console/terminal which, by default, has a bolded and green hostname as well as a bolded and blueish working directory. I know that it is possible for the serial pins to relay color in the command line, as still returns it's results nicely highlighted in red. How can I get the hostname and working directory to be their colorful selves again? 

Accidentally removing the sd card, or accidentally unpowering the Pi while it is running can corrupt the sd card, but it doesn't always corrupt it. If you see everything as working fine, then it looks like you're one of the lucky ones. Your card should be ok. Rebooting is safe, as well as any other commands. If you start to notice kernel panics and whatnot later, then you might want to reinstall your OS, after backing up any important files of course. The only time an sd card gets corrupted is when you eject it or unplug the Pi while it is writing to the card, e.i. the green ACT light is on. 

The command will show what the kernel was doing and at what time, you can use this command to find at exactly what time the system crashed, and what program/command was run last (which would most likely be the reason for the crash) EX: 

As long as you're not putting unnecessary strain on the pins, you should be ok. Just make sure that: 

Direct UART The Pi has two UART pins on the header already, so you can hook up the module to those pins. The only problem is that the module uses 5v logic, which would most likely harm the Pi, as it is only 3v3 tolerant. So you would need a voltage divider from 5v to 3v or a level converter hooked up to the TX pin (pin 3) of the module. [Pins are numbered from right to left with the PCB below the connector.] Refer to page 4 of the data sheet. Here are the connections: 

assuming your command/script exits, if your command/script is a long running one, there are many ways of putting it in the background. My personal favorite is running it in a so you can re-access it later. Just change that line to: 

The Pi 3, while idling, consumes about 220 mA. Under loads, it is known to reach up to 1 A, and with USB devices plugged in, it can reach 2.5 A. There is no on board current sensor, so this is only a tool for a good estimate. 

There are various ways of running a command at startup, but you do need to make sure of certain things first: 

This is because Raspbian uses multiple partitions. Two of those partitions are the BOOT and RECOVERY partition, those are not the ones that contain your files, like your home directory and your desktop. The partition that contains those is formatted in EXT4 which is not readable by macs (by default), so it doesn't show up on your mac, even though it is there. If you run on your mac with the sd card plugged in, you can see this extra partition. Here is my sd card running Raspbian Lite, so there is no RECOVERY partition: 

When the PWR LED (Red light) is not on, it means that the Raspberry Pi is being undervolted. The RPI requires up to 5.25V, but only when overclocked. For example, if you give your RPi only 4V the PWR light would not stay lit. 

How would I go about using face recognition with a USB camera, NOT the Pi Camera Board? A link to a tutorial would be fine. I know it was possible with OpenCV, but is it still, and how? Edit Can I get it to just detect my face (only my face, no one else's) and when it does execute some code? 

Like @Joan said, there is nothing to install for the GPS module (sort of). It is UART, so you can hook it up a few different ways: 

The class of a Micro SD card determines it's write time, NOT it's read time. Class 10 cards usually have a slower read time than Class 4 cards. Class 4 has a fast enough read and write speed for most everything the Pi does, Class 10 cards can have slower boot times, but you should be fine with either. Source: $URL$ 

Note: You don't have to put a voltage converter on the RX pin of the GPS. To interface with the device, you will need to disable the serial console of the RPi. To do this, enter scroll to , then , hit no, and reboot your Pi. Finally, you need to install with: 

That ACT flash you are seeing is most likely one of the last ten flashes it does to tell the user that it is done powering down. If you want to see this for yourself, plug the Pi into something other than a battery, run or whatever your favorite shutdown command is, and stare at that ACT light. After it is done erratically blinking for a while, it will flash 10 times, each flash the same as the last. This is to signal that the process has finished. Even though it is the ACT light, the Pi is not writing/reading the sd card. To directly answer Q1: The point at which the first of these ten flashes starts. That is when it is safe to lose power. As for Q2, I don't think I have enough knowledge in the hardware department to answer that, but I don't think it will be necessary, assuming that last flash you see is one of these 10. EX (On Raspbian Wheezy): $URL$ 

This page talks about just wiring the devices in series. Since each I2C device has it's own address the RPi should be able to tell them apart and send information accordingly. 

There are two solutions to this. Method One Comment out all of the wlan1 config in your file. Like this: 

and change them to (if your device is also listed as device 1, if not change the 1 to whatever address it was listed at) 

Then, look in with and look for something like or something along those lines. The data sheet for the module says it has a 9600 baud rate, so to interface with the device: 

to apply the new partition table. I would also try reinstalling the OS or trying a different SD card if possible, to see if the problem lies with the Pi, the card, or the OS.