Ok, so my 5c is that just looking at the code, I can clearly see that you should rethink what each class should do and re-module the whole solution again. For example, the http communication seems scattered across both FileTailReader and RolledFileReader. After reading the aim of your task, it seems that you have a typical IN - process - OUT scenario. In this scenario all parts should be as much independent as can be, communicating between themselves through interfaces. Such decoupling would at least allow you to test each module separately. In your implementation, I think, that each IN contains some part of OUT which. Another thing - you've added some async behavior to your *Reader classes. While I'm not sure what they actually do (sorry tl;dr) you might benefit from decoupling the file parsing logic from async behaviour. Again, it might at least, allow you to easily run tests. Next thing, you create some object within classes with new(), maybe you should create them externally and pass as a constructor parameter, in other words, do dependency injection. You don't need to use any fancy framework, just create all the components in Main() in proper order and start job. If it makes sense to define an interface for any of the injected classes, consider doing it. Same goes for all hardcoded parameters - put them in a *Config class and just set as default values. 

I've written a script in python to scrape e-mail addresses from different pizza shops located in los-angeles available in yellowpage traversing multiple pages. It is able to go one-layer deep and dig out email addresses. I believe, this crawler has got the ability to parse all the emails from any link no matter how many pages it has spread across. Just needed to adjust the last page number in the crawler. Here is what I've written: 

I had a desire to make a recursive web crawler in vba. As I don't have much knowledge on vba programming, so it took me a while to understand how the pattern might be. Finally, I've created one. The crawler I've created is doing just awesome. It starts from the first page of a torrent site then tracking the site's next page link it moves on while extracting names until all links are exhausted. Any input on this to make it more robust will be a great help. Thanks in advance. Here is what I've written: 

Note that this allows you to easily pass the field itself to , instead of just an arbitrary key. Functions; I'd recommend the following style when writing functions: 

I have a list of elements (well, nested lists of elements, really) that the user can reorder (using jQuery ). A simplified view of the structure is something like: 

No, I wouldn't say you're using too many variables (except for , which doesn't appear to be used anywhere). Not enough functions, though. And perhaps too many spurious assignments. Specifically, I'd suggest something like: 

Each inside of is sortable, and each inside of is also sortable (independently of the other sections). Each element within these sections is numbered according to its position in its own list. So to continue with the example above, the correct numbering is: 

Separation of logic and presentation; Instead of composing a big long HTML string in I'd recommend having the basic structure of the output as part of your markup. For instance, contained within a that is set to initially. Then the only thing needs to do is update the parts that actually change and toggle the visibility of the . That will result in less code and be more maintainable than trying to construct the entire HTML snippet programmatically. 

I have written a crawler in python with the combination of class and function. Few days back I saw a scraper in a tutorial more or less similar to what I did here. I found it hard the necessity of using class here. However, I decided to create one. My scraper is able to traverse all the next pages and print the collected results errorlesly. If there is any suggestion or input to give this scraper a better look, I'm ready to comply with that. Thanks in advance. Here is what I've written: 

I've written some code in vba for the purpose of making twofold "POST" requests to get to the destination page and harvest name and address from there. There are two types of structures within which the desired results lie. One type of structure holds name and address in a single "th" storage and the other holds name in one "td" and address in another "td". So, to handle this I had to use error handler to get the most out of it. By using xmlhttp I could not get any result so I used WinHttpRequest in my script to get the result by enabling redirection. My script is running errorlessly at this moment. However, any suggestion to improve my code specially by handling error more efficiently will be highly appreciated. Here is the full working code: 

That will do the same thing as your code. Also, please consider using variable names that are not just single-letters. 

Globals; Even more than above, I'd prefer not having these globals at all. Instead you could retrieve them as needed in your functions (and/or pass them in as parameters). Event Handlers; If you're just going to use the and attributes, there's no need to bind them programmatically. You can set them up in your markup instead, like: 

There's an additional complication, in that each can contain a new repetition of the entire structure, beginning again from . This nested content, however, is essentially spurious and should be ignored for all practical purposes. Anyhow, to apply the numbering to the inner sections (and simultaneously ignore content in the aforementioned nested sections), I'm currently using the following code: 

I've written some code to parse the names and phone numbers from craigslist. It starts from the link in "m_url" then goes one layer deep to parse the name and then again another layer deep to parse the phone number. Note that it goes 2 layer deep only when it sees "show contact button" on that page so that it can unveil the phone number from that link to scrape. It only prints the result when it sees the button on that page. That's because there are around 120 names on that page but it prints only those containing that specific button. Sometimes when I come across such "show contact button" link within a page from where I am supposed to harvest data, I get frightened. That's why I tried to work on it. It works smoothly now. Any improvement on this script will be very helpful. 

To provide some background context, I'm implementing a web-based solution (Java, Spring, Hibernate) that allows the creation/authoring of task-centric workflow documents. Basically a workflow provides an ordered collection of tasks (and related content) for a user to step through. One of the available task types is a "risk assessment" matrix, in which the user selects a "risk" level (i.e. "how likely is it that this thing will break?") and a "consequence" level (i.e. "how bad is it if the thing does break?"). Based upon their input, some text provided by the workflow author will be displayed. Essentially these tasks are backed by a 5x5 matrix of strings, and by selecting a "risk" and "consequence" level, the user is indicating a position in the matrix. There's one further complication, in that all text provided by the document author must support internationalization. To deal with this I've implemented an entity, which simply refers to a collection of entities, each one of which specifies a language, and a string of text in that language. That all works fine. What I'm wondering about is, what's the best way to store the matrix itself in the data model? I can't just serialize an array of Strings, as each position in the matrix is actually occupied by an instance and not a . I suppose maybe I could serialize an array of ids, but that seems fairly hacky, doesn't it? Under my current approach, I've explicitly declared a field dedicated to each position in the matrix. That makes for 25 getters and 25 setters. To avoid having to deal with that nonsense, I added some helper methods that take advantage of reflection in order to get and set fields based upon their matrix position, in standard notation (I use a two-dimensional to transport the matrix data to/from the rest of the application). What I'm really after is the cleanest, most convenient way of managing the matrix content. I think what I have is fairly reasonable, but can anyone think of a better approach? Here's the code: