As title goes, is there a script for Win 7 to get printed on a .txt file all the images (JPG, PNG, GIF ecc) inside a folder along with "filename" and "pixels dimension"? I've tried with on command line but only lists name, file size ecc.. 

I'm creating a template document for a client in Word 2010. I'm trying to implement some instructions in the document, so that if the file is either printed or exported as a .pdf file, those instructions are not available/visible. Comments are quite nice visually speaking, but unfortunately I can't find a way to avoid them to be printed or be visible when exporting the document to .pdf. Is there any way to accomplish this? 

The answer provided by Maximus is no longer valid for cmder 1.3+ You have to create a file (for ex. ) inside your cmder folder with your customized definition (source). Below my customization: 

Have you tried with FileTypesMan from excelent Nirsoft? It's a small application that can allow you to set specific icon per file extension. I think it should be able to change the icon without messing with the default program. 

Ok solution with ImageMagick, simple and quick (but ofc requires the library). Open the cmd line in the folder you are interested (Shift+RightClick inside your folder window and select "Open command window here"), then in the cmd prompt use this 

I've exported a pdf file with some content framed from InDesign. The content is a linked/embeded file (most of the times other pdfs). If I resize the frame of the content I placed to the portion I desire, the "out of frame" content will still be "present" in the resulting exported pdf file. If I open the exported pdf file in Acrobat Pro or Illustrator, I can easely find that the content is clipped and not cropped as I want, this way I can completely remove the clipping path that correspond to the frame I've set in InDesign, recovering the entire content of the files I placed. This is quite a problematic situation for 2 facts primarly: 

What can I do to be sure that "out of frame" content is not present once I export the pdf file? I want "out of frame" content cropped/trimmed/deleted, not clipped. 

There's a question in ServerFault that has two more potential fixes: $URL$ As mentioned in there, you might want to try: 

Your editor is showing while viewing your public key in the file - that might be a problem. Add the missing end-of-line character. Is the file on the Linux server protected so that other users of the server can not modify it? If not, then will just ignore it. More specifically, the file, the sub-directory and the user's home directory all need to be writable only by the user himself. If these tips won't solve the problem, check the server's authentication log. In Linux, that'll usually be either or depending on distribution. The daemon will log there an error message if it failed to read the file or is ignoring it for some reason - and the error message will include the reason. 

If you can extract the kernel module from your backups, you can use the command on it to list the driver version. To identify the possibility of a NIC firmware update, a precise identification of the exact NIC model is necessary. From your log output, I can see your NIC is PCI device 00:19.0 and the name of the network interface is . Please run these commands as root: 

With the Product Number, I found the manuals for your laptop here. You'll need the Maintenance and Service Guide for your laptop. The surest way would be to remove the existing HDD and put in a regular 2.5" SATA SSD in its place. The HDD/SSD options are listed on page 26, and the removal and replacement steps are listed starting from page 66. Note that you will need to essentially disassemble the laptop to get at the HDD/SSD: the instructions for that are on pages 47-50. You'll need appropriate tools and some knowledge in handling ESD-sensitive parts. You might want to begin by obtaining a HP Hardware Kit 762504-001. Although it's technically not necessary (you could get the same parts off the HDD you're removing), but it is inexpensive from eBay and getting an extra kit of mounting rails and a SATA connector adapter allows you to verify the screw locations and available height without actually disassembling your laptop first. Instead of replacing the HDD with a SATA SSD, it might be possible to install a mSATA SSD in addition to the existing HDD if your system board has a slot for it. To verify that the slot exists, I'm afraid opening the laptop will be necessary. Check item 13 on page 17. The fact that there are no procedures listed for replacing the mSATA SSD makes me worry that this option might not be really available. Note that all of these are listed as Authorized Service Provider parts, so if your system is still under warranty, that warranty will most likely be void if you open the laptop to swap out the disk. 

I am trying to understand why I experience FPS drops in demanding games when a video is playing in background and how to fix it. My particular setup (see the specs at the bottom): two monitors in extended desktop mode, the primary monitor connected via DisplayPort to an AMD R9 390 video card, the other via DVI alternatively to the on-die Intel HD 4600 graphics output or to the R9 390's DVI output. I will demonstrate the problem with Witcher 3 game, but the same problem occurs with at least one other game that I tried - World of Tanks (which is where the issue actually matters, as sometimes I put on music from YouTube while in game). In all the experiments below I run Witcher 3 on my primary monitor in windowed full-screen mode and measure the FPS in it with FRAPS. To guarantee stable FPS, I put the game on pause (by pressing ESC). I also set affinity of the Witcher 3 process to the first 3 cores and set the affinity of other applications to the 4th core. The CPU load has remained stable on cores 1-3 throughout the tests at 45-50%. Baseline test when the game is not running: CPU load is at ~0% on cores 1-3 and ~5% on core 4. Baseline test when the game is running, but no video being played in parallel: stable 58 FPS, CPU load: ~10% on core 4. First batch of tests: the secondary monitor is connected to the R9 390. 

1080p YouTube HTML5 video running on the secondary monitor (in Chrome or Firefox): ~48 FPS, CPU load: ~50% on core 4. The same YouTube video running on the primary monitor on top of the game: same results as in (1). SMPlayer playing a 1024x426 AVC video on the secondary monitor: ~48 FPS, CPU load: ~25% on core 4. 

Now, one thing I noticed is that performance varies depending on whether the game window is focused or not. The benchmarks above are given for the case when the game window is focused. If the game window is focused, I see clear choppiness in video playback (both in YouTube and in SMPlayer). If another window is focused, video playback is smooth, but game FPS drops more. My specs: Windows 10 x64, Intel i5-4690K, Gigabyte Z97-D3H, 8Gb RAM, R9 390 video card. The primary monitor (connected to R9 390) runs at 1920x1200, the secondary at 1600x1200. EDIT: I took a music-only YouTube video and tried to play it in various resolutions from 240p to 1080p. The FPS dropped gradually from 58 to 48 FPS as I increased the resolution. 

The "proxy" IP address 198.143.56.17 is not on your network: it does not have even the same prefix as yours. I used the logger feature in the uBlock Origin browser extension to see what requests are made when accessing that page on www.iplocation.net. While doing this, the page showed me two IP addresses as "proxies": my own IP address, and another incapsula.com address. This makes me think the proxy detection at www.iplocation.net is not currently entirely reliable. It appears the page includes some references to "incapsula.evyy.net". Looks like this evyy.net is acting as a reverse proxy for Incapsula, and the address finder page detects this and lists it in the "proxy" section. In other words, it is a side effect of www.iplocation.net's own structure. I also note that this page seems to include some advertising for VPNs. Although the odd "proxy" reporting may be a honest mistake, the fact that they don't explain their "proxy" results in any further detail makes me think it might possibly be deliberate to make the readers worry about their security... and perhaps then buy a VPN. 

When you start the service manually from the command line (without using the prefix command or the suffix to run it in the background), what happens? a) If the service starts and keeps running, and the prompt does not return until you press Control-C or stop the service in some other way: then is the right choice. b) If the prompt returns but the service keeps running in the background (i.e. the service daemonizes itself on its own), then is the right choice. c) If the service does its job and returns to the prompt without leaving anything running (i.e. the service just adjusts some kernel settings, sends a command to something else or does something similar), then is probably the right choice. In this case, of the service might be the command to "set" something, and would be the corresponding command to "unset" it. This type usually benefits of , so systemd will keep track of the "state" of this service according to whether the thing was most recently "set" or "unset". The other values are special cases. For example, if the service utilizes a D-Bus connection, then might be the best choice. It makes aware of the fact, and then systemd will track this service (and anything that depends on it) by the presence of this service on the D-Bus.