to set the Terminal preferences just for user username. You probably already know at least some of this. I know this answer skirts the question of how to do the equivalent thing with the command, but if you do: 

Just configure your window the way you want it and then choose the Shell->Use Settings as Default command. There's no need to do anything from the command line. From your comment, I understand that you want to be able to set the preferences for Terminal from a script as part of configuring a machine automatically. The easiest way to do that is probably to configure Terminal the way you want, and then make a copy of 

No matter what you do, there's always a possibility that portions of the file could be written to the machine's swap space on the boot disk. It sounds like this might be a file that you carry from one machine to another to help you configure the machines or something? The most secure way to make sure the data stays off a machine is to never let the machine access the data in the first place. You might consider putting the file on an iPad or other portable device and accessing the data there rather than on the machine in question. 

Change your expectations. There was a time, long ago, when people felt they were living large on a single 640x480 screen. (That's pixels, not characters, btw.) And then the screens got bigger, and the pixels got smaller, but still many were limited to a single monitor, and they were happy. Even today, thousands of our brothers and sisters work happily on machines like the 15" MacBook Pro. How did anyone ever get by in those barbaric olde tymes? How do people suffer through it still? It's all about expectations. Some have never experienced the boundless freedom that comes with measuring screen real estate in pixel-acres. Others have, out of choice or necessity, opted to live a simpler, more modest life. They open only those windows which help them work, eschewing the constant harassment of endless e-mail, Twitter, and instant message feeds. They switch between code and debug views rather than keeping both visible at all times. They spend time tiling the windows that they do need so as not to waste a pixel. They avail themselves of virtual desktops and other modern conveniences only when they lead to actual improvement. And they take joy in their ability to take their entire setup with them to Starbucks or a nearby meadow. A day will soon come when eye-tracking laser devices deliver pixels directly onto our retinae to provide work space in every direction for as far as you can see, even as there will be no actual screen. And we will become accustomed to that, and shortly thereafter we will wonder how anyone ever worked before. 

If an Office repair doesn't help, and configuring/disabling Windows Firewall doesn't help, this problem can be due to a corrupted Windows file. To check for corrupted Windows files, use the Windows System File Checker by entering the following at an admin command prompt: 

Unless you've disabled restore points, Windows Update creates a restore point prior to installing a batch of updates. Do a system restore to that restore point to remove this batch of updates. If you're right that the change was caused by the updates, this should return your normal appearance. Then you can selectively apply updates till you find the offending one, which you can exclude using the same process if you choose to do so. 

If you go straight back into the dialog, what it shows is misleading (a bug) as SSMS really has saved your new default locations for Data and Log. But at this time it only shows the correct value for Backup. After restarting SQL Server, the correct values are shown for all three settings: 

Once you've enabled directory browsing, visiting the site without specifying a page name will show the directory listing: 

The Windows XP version of MS Paint supports transparency. And users of Windows 7 Professional, Enterprise, or Ultimate can use the XP Mode feature of Windows 7 to run Windows XP in a window, run the old Paint there, and set the transparency of an image file: 

Despite all the key combinations tried, there actually is a key combination that does get a response and gives the dialog focus: ALT+TAB. Although the dialog has the appearance of being the only window open—so that the problem doesn't present itself as a need to switch between windows—there is in fact another window open. The Welcome screen may just look like a background, but the ALT+TAB key sequence works to "switch windows" back to the dialog:    

The 403 is because you haven't configured the site to allow directory browsing. You can do so easily enough: 

So my question is: how can we script a change of mouse pointer speed that actually changes mouse behaviour immediately? 

When a user clicks this link, the user's browser will offer to open the file using the program that's associated with the .csv file extension on the user's machine: 

Please read fully before downvoting or flagging as a possible duplicate! This is not the standard Firefox redirect question—I've searched for some time and cannot find anything about this one. I recently started using the current Firefox (38.0.5), installing it on two machines, one at home and one in the office. The download was from the official site and was virus-scanned. Within a few days, I had examples of the following on both machines. If I entered a URL that would turn out to be unsuccessful (something offline etc), I would be taken to a page masquerading as a BBC News article on how British citizens were flocking to get a brand new Samsung Galaxy or iPhone for only £1.00: 

I'm reposting this from askubuntu.com, as it was discussed fairly quickly that Ubuntu's presence on a separate partition was almost certainly NOT the problem, and as such this question wasn't appropriate there. 

Sure, no big deal - I google around and find out about editing to establish paths. I go to my home directory and enter - it doesn't exist. No big deal, according to the Internet I can just create one here. So that's fine, works. works. I copy and paste a line from the Internet which puts ahead of the rest of the paths. Like so: 

I recently restored a Toshiba laptop using its recovery partition, which claims to revert Windows 7 "back to factory settings". It booted up, shut down just fine. I opted to restore to ~100GB of the disk, leaving the other partition blank. I then installed Ubuntu 12.04 on the other partition (slightly larger than the Win7 side, ~120GB), booted that side up, installed 360+ updates and found this partition to work correctly. Did a startup-shutdown on both OSes, seemed to be okay. I then used the Win 7 side for a bit, and it found its own updates to install. I left this to update itself (probably a mistake) and came back later to find that the updates were not finished, but also that the Windows 7 OS had encountered difficulty shutting down. I hard powered it off, as it had been left to its own device for quite some time (overnight, truthfully - I fell asleep, d'oh) and restarted. Seemed fine, the update process continued. I powered it down again. It hung again just after the "Shutting down" screen. It appears to do everything correctly, right up until it would actually power down. Screen fades to black, but the fans never turn off. The Ubuntu partition is fine, great actually. Seems unaffected by whatever may have happened. What could have caused this, and what's more, can I fix this without doing another recovery? Since this computer was given to me, I do not have a recovery or boot disk for the Windows 7 partition, and it is my understanding that Windows recovery/boot disks do not play nicely with existing separate partitions. I'm at work right now, but if it would help to post an lshw or a dxdiag please let me know and I can do this as I have access to the laptop later tonight. Thank you. 

Recently tried the package manager Homebrew to grab things like PyQt4. It also recommended grabbing Python; no problem, done. So a simple at the Terminal window didn't open the recently downloaded instance of Python, so I type and it tells me this - 

Save. Try it. Doesn't work. I remove the double-quotes; no good. I add a colon to the end of the line, for some reason. No good. I google. I see more information about but even after finding it and entering it seems I cannot unlock it. And besides, most of the Internets also say that just adding a file to my home directory ought to be enough and that I don't need to muck about with this. But it hasn't been enough, and I'm still mucking about! So what am I missing? 

And if the reason for wanting the auto-logon is to get startup programs running, we might still prefer the workstation to end up locked after power-up. If so, we can place a shortcut in the Startup folder with the following command: 

Further to @Adam Millerchip's answer, we can reduce the password-change effort to what it was prior to joining a domain, when we always had to run control userpasswords2 again every time to store the new password. Now we're on a domain, we can just run a batch file instead that runs control userpasswords2 and also restores our domain and username registry settings: AfterPwdChange.bat 

I've searched and found reports of similar messages in various scenarios and Windows versions, but not a simple unexplained shutdown like this. Why is it doing this, and how can I stop it? 

Uninstall MEGAsync Uninstall the Visual C++ 2010 runtime (all versions, in case you have an old version present that's confusing the MEGAsync setup) Reinstall MEGAsync 

I find this no longer works in Windows 10. Even after logging off and even restarting, Windows 10 goes right on adding the word "shortcut". Furthermore, it changes back from to other values such as . This registry tweak has always worked before, going right back to Windows 95 & 98, through Windows Vista & 7 and Windows 8. I'm on the latest version of Windows 10 that's successfully come to my machines (April tech preview, build 10074). I've searched but can find nothing about this. How can we stop Windows 10 from adding the word "shortcut"? 

I fixed it by changing the BIOS setting. The naming or menu details may be different in your BIOS, but here's the story in my case. Under the Advanced settings, go to Advanced Chipset Configuration: 

There's actually a big clue in the message: "Hardware reserved". If checking/unchecking the "Maximum memory" checkbox under Windows isn't helping, the culprit may be the default BIOS settings, which can reserve excessive RAM for graphics hardware. In my case, Windows reported that 1.1G of my installed 8G RAM was "hardware reserved": 

Note: Acronis True Image for Crucial is just an example, and it only works if it detects a Crucial SSD, so don't waste time on it if you don't have one. I just happened to get a Crucial drive, so I used Acronis, but I'm sure there must be others, free or otherwise. For example, over a decade ago I used Norton Ghost for all my disk imaging, and that could reboot to another environment to clone the current partition in just the same way. 

Using ALT+TAB, the "Windows Product Activation" dialog can be made active and will then receive keyboard input. 

only my Backup setting was saved: on checking the stored configuration, the Data/Log settings had reverted to Program Files: