I assume you are using software packaged by PortableApps.com. While we are waiting for file associations to be implemented, Xenon Portable may be the easiest solution. You can use the GUI to manage file associations... 

If you want to be extra cautious, you could upgrade your Firefox incrementally. Mozilla maintains an archive of all public releases at: So, in your case, to upgrade from Firefox 3.6.3 to 9.0: 

Update: I've worked on a more complete solution based on the script below. It is called FEleven and it is hosted on GitHub: $URL$ One of the main benefits of FEleven over the the solution below is that I've included built-in support for Google Chrome and other browsers, allowing you to omit the window-title parameter, i.e.: 

Instead of throttling the CPU, you can slow down Flash games using Cheat Engine's Speedhack feature. In summary, Speedhack works by modifying the timing routines that are called by a game to get the current time 1. 

Do a Reverse DNS lookup for the IP address: $URL$ The IP address has a PTR (pointer) record for gwhois.org. 

The fastest method would be to log in to 1 of the 6 TTY's using CTRL+ALT+F1 through CTRL+ALT+F6. To get back to the desktop/GUI, simply press CTRL+ALT+F7. 

Alternatively, you can target all blank bookmark icons (that are not in folders) with the following: 

For example, if I go to , the page loads, but all the relative links in the HTML are broken. I don't have a directory on my server! What's going on? Is there a directive or rule I can add to my file to stop this behavior and throw an HTTP 404 error instead? 

Install my InputFocusTitleChange.user.js userscript. (Source) Now you can use following syntax in AutoHotkey: 

Update If you wanted to style all text including the Firefox GUI with except for HTML (and similar) elements... 

Firebug is suspended by default. Re-suspending Firebug, however, in not intuitive. First, you must add the Firebug icon to a toolbar with: 

We can accomplish this by editing the Registry and by using AutoHotkey. I called my script , and used similar names for my example. 

You cannot disable SSL if you are signed into your Google account. However, you can configure your network's DNS records using the option. See SSL Search at Google Help for more information. 

Once you have the file, create a shortcut to it (e.g. Right-click, ). Optional: Rename the shortcut and change the icon using . Pin the shortcut to the Taskbar. Repeat for each URL you want on the Taskbar, each with different file names. 

The answer is actually more simple than @JdeBP explained. I built and maintain my own whois lookup service/tool at $URL$ and I have come to learn the ins and outs of different domain name registries. The issue is that the command on your Mac is not sending the query to the .COM whois server in the correct format. To fix this, you need to use the following command: 

If changing the encoding does not resolve the issue, it may be that Notepad++ is using a font that does not support all characters for that encoding. Change the font by going to Settings > Style Configurator and setting the Global Font to a Unicode or proper typeface. (I use DejaVu Sans Mono.) 

There does not seem be a way to fix this behavior. Fortunately, I have a workaround for you. Using an extension such as Stylebot or Stylish, you can write a global CSS rule to help distinguish when you need to right-click instead of CTRL+click. Using CSS selectors you can write something like this: 

The font size should be for Proportional and or for Monospace. Note: These settings can also be reached under: 

If you are unfamiliar with AutoHotkey, I've compiled the script for you. Just run it and it will stay in the system tray (Right click > Exit to close it). 

Open up your favorite Flash game in your browser. Launch Cheat Engine. Click on the Select Process button at the top-left, find the process running the Flash Player plugin (see note below), and then click Open. 

Go to Firefox Menu > Options > Options > Advanced Uncheck Use hardware acceleration when available Click OK 

This would work if you only needed one URL and you didnt have already pinned. However, since Windows 7 does not allow you pin the same file more than once, even if the CLI arguments are different, we are going to use AutoHotkey. Setup: 

Windows XP provided an option to shutdown the computer without installing any Windows updates. This convenient, time-saving option seems to be missing in Windows 7. Is it possible to shutdown Windows 7 without installing updates? 

has various options for activating a Windows license. You can try re-entering your product key by running . 

Bonus: If you are going to use the Add-on Bar as a permanent fixture, you can hide it's close button with: 

Autorun.inf files are handled differently in Windows 7 to improve security. Only removable optical media, i.e. type , can specify an AutoRun () task. 

One the left is Firefox and on the right is Google Chrome. Google Chrome does not have any issues playing the video. Any ideas on what is wrong or how to fix this problem? 

3D View requires WebGL. Your graphics card may be blacklisted by Firefox or your graphics card drivers are outdated. If updating your drivers does not resolve the issue, you can force-enable unsupported features by setting the following preferences under : 

The documentation is a great start and provides many examples. If you need more help, the community forum is another great resource. 

I have written many AutoHotkey scripts to navigate the Control Panel, so I've got you covered! The following script requires that is on 

To add on to Matt's answer, you can run the following in the command line to restore file attributes: 

Netbeans will then list all the occurrences of the variable within your project. From this list, you should be able to find where you initialized it. Be sure to click the button, if you do not mean to rename the variable. For the same results without refactoring, you can also use Edit > Find Usages. 

Now, in Firefox you have two choices: to play audio files in a new tab/window using the plugin or to play them using the VLC application. 

Since you are using Windows, you can use Notepad++ to convert from RTF to LTF. This option can be found under: View > . 

This setting is related to the Tablet PC Components. It looks like your menus have been set to left-handed. You can change it back to right-handed by setting the following registry key: 

You need to at the end of each multi-line method or hotkey. Otherwise, by logic, you haven't specified when a certain method ends. Note that single line methods have an implied statement. I've cleaned up and fixed your script (I have strict style on commas, capitalization, indentation/whitespace, and placing brackets on their own line): 

So, using the Stylish add-on, we can define the following rule to stop the status bar from clipping the URL in most cases (i.e. when the URL is shorter than your window): 

Also, you can verify the encoding of the page you are working with, and set Notepad++'s encoding to match. If you are using Firefox, the encoding can be found in the Page Info popup accessed by clicking the webpage's favicon. 

In my experience, unexpected shut downs have been caused by faulty hardware, such as the RAM or hard drive. If it is a hardware issue, then it will be difficult to give you a clear-cut answer right away. My advice would be to run some diagnostics and see if you find any issues with your PC hardware. Memtest seems to be the de facto software for diagnosing RAM. For hard drives, you can take your pick from the various S.M.A.R.T tools.