Who is going to be managing this service? Who is going to install new objects to this service? (ie: New printers or drivers) How difficult is it to restart the harware/VM in the event of a major problem? Does the system have enough resources to manage the load? What other services does this hardware provide? Any mission critical? How critical is print services? 

From what little I know about WMI, this is created by the SCCM client, which makes a twisted kind of sense when you think about how SCCM works. I got this location from the "Deployment Monitoring Tool" that you can get in the System Center 2012 Configuration Manager Toolkit. If you look in the deployments area and the Enforcement tab, you can look at the DiscoverySourceXML to see what the detection returned. I just found this out today so I haven't been able to fully test it yet. This location could be just the results store for the application discovery process. So far, it's good enough to let me know what product codes work with the SCCM application evaluation process. I really need an SCCM developer to see this and set me straight. 

Can you correlate any change in the MST file to any specific registry setting? I believe the adobe customization wizard will show you where the changes you make will be shown in the registry. If not, you should be able to find this pretty easily in the administrative guide. I would add this registry key to the deployment detection methods and force the clients to re-evaulate. Otherwise, 

It sounds like you chose to download / deploy all of the updates in the history of defender. I would verify the ADR definition only is releasing updates released or revised in the last day. There is no reason to download them all. 

Placement of services is more of a thought exercise to come to your own conclusion. My guess based off of the number of printers and the number of servers, is that printing is a low priority service that only a few people manage. If that is the case, it really doesn't matter where you put it. Hope this helps 

Scheduled Tasks is what you need. You can set a trigger for both workstation lock and workstation unlock. If you need to deploy it out to more machines, use SCHTASKS.EXE (provided with windows). Hope that helps 

So I am trying to get Remote Installation Service Running on a Windows Server 2003 R2 Standard Edition with Service Pack 2 installed. I am trying to integrate network drivers into the image and I keep getting this warning in the event log. 

Bluescreen view only gives you a high level overview. In order to get in depth you will need to analyze the crash dump using Windows Debugging tools. Analyzing a crash dump seems difficult, however it's pretty simple. This Technet article goes in depth, but it's really a 4 step process. 

I am trying to collect azure diagnostics data from some resources in Azure on one separate subscription and directory, and ship them to an OMS / log analytics workspace on another subscription / directory. The account i'm using has access to both organizations, however when I am running the commands to "To enable sending of Diagnostic Logs to a Log Analytics workspace" (as described here) 

We've begun our migration to windows 7 and we ran into an interesting issue. When we hit "CTRL+ALT+DEL" we are brought to the "User selection Screen". Normally, this screen will have an icon for every local user for the machine. These machines are Domain members with "Fast User Switch" disabled so no user names are listed only the "Other User" option. If you click "Other User" or hit enter, the system moves on to the normal login screen where it prompts for user name and password. Here's the issue: We want to find a way to skip over the part where a user selects "Other User". We essentially want the system to always assume that we always want "Other User" and to go directly to the login screen when a user hits "CTRL+ALT+DEL". What I find odd is that the "Other User" doesn't show up until we've had more than one domain user log in. Right after we re-image the machine, the login process goes directly to the user credential prompt. [EDIT] Security Policies set by Active Directory: 

If all of those critera are met, I would review the the following: 1) Are the VSS providers / writers in a healthy state on both the host and the guest VMs? This article from Veritas will show you how to check. It's essentially these two commands. 

Download the Windows Debugging tools from the wizard only instal the WinDbg tool. Launch the tool and configure the symbol path to use 

I would check the language setting on the ADR and make sure only the required lanugages are selected. 

Open the crash dump / minidump. Click on the blue link that says "!analyze -v" to get more information about the events leading up to the crash. 

I am attempting to use Global Conditions to allow SCCM 2012 Application objects to trigger the installation of a video driver package. I'm running into issues when I have both an onboard (CPU or Motherboard based) video device and a PCI-E Video card. The reason I can find is that the application requirement I setup to detect this is unable to handle the results properly. Here is how I have this setup: Global Condition 

At our organization, we have multiple levels of support personnel. The lowest (level 1) of these personnel deal with a single job site with about 40 printers. Each site has a Windows Server 2003 R2 machine that provides file and print permissions. These lower level support personnel do not have admin rights to this server and they never will. This is a problem because when a new printer is delivered, the company wide techs (level 2) must add the printer to the server. So my question is this: Is there a way to allow non-admins to add printers to a Windows Server machine? These users shouldn't be able to add drivers or make system wide changes. They just need to be able to add, delete, and configure printer objects and printer ports. The per printer item security permission "manage printer" don't allow the user to modify the port. Anyone have any ideas on what we can do? We need to at least let the user rename the port if possible. Thanks in advance [EDIT] These servers are not Domain controllers, but actually member servers. It apparently makes a difference. 

2) Are the integration services up to date on the guest VMs? Try to install the integration services, if it is out of date you will be prompted to upgrade. 3) Have you reviewed the Windows backup logs to determine why this is occuring? The default log location is %windir%\logs\windowsserverbackup - additonal logs are outlined in this Technet post. 

There is an azure-quickstart-template named 201-vmss-windows-customimage that will give you a template to accomplish this. From the readme.md 

Regarding your question of how can I force users not to install any monthly updates - You can use the following group policy to disallow the removal of updates for both admin / non-admin users. You can hide the "View Installed Updates" page with group policy as well. Regrading your second question of how can I force updates to re-apply if they are removed by users. You need to configure or be aware of the following moving pieces. 

Our company just migrated to Windows 7 and decided to use the included "balanced" power plan. The main problem with this is that I use powershell to do remote management and sleeping machines don't respond to these commands. Does anyone have a suggestion on how I can send out a signal to wake up only sleeping machines? Now, I already know that I can use the "Magic Packet" with wake on LAN, but that has a few problems. 

[Background] We have been having trouble with our network clients suddenly being unable to print. They get an odd error with a hex code. We determined that something in the driver was messed up and we could resolve the issue by clearing the driver cache and reinstalling the driver. This happens to random computers every so often. We're assuming this is a bug with the latest Dell 2330dn driver since that is the only model that has this problem. [Problem] What we are looking to do is write a Powershell script that would clear the driver cache and redownload the driver. I see a ton of scripts out there to manage queues, servers, and ports, but nothing for local driver cache management. [Current Workaround] Since we have to do this manually, I'll write out the steps so you know what we want this script to replicate. 

You think it's originating from your PC? Have you tried unplugging your Ethernet cord and seeing if it fixes the network wide issue? I think you may be taking a too narrow view on a network wide issue by only looking at individual Wireshark logs, have you tried reviewing your switch and router logs and seeing if there are any errors? To find the source of SMB traffic that is suspected to cause the issue I would run a and look for what program is using TCP port 445 (Wikipedia also says UDP ports 137, 138 & TCP ports 137, 139) I would do this on both your workstation and on the file server. I would also set up some network related performance monitors on the file server to see if that is spiking during this time as well. I don't think it would be safe to settle on SMB just yet without seeing the same sort of traffic on multiple workstations. The fact that it is happening at a specific time makes it seem like there is a scheduled task , program, or backup running at that time. WSUS settings and Windows Update GPOs have caused this issue for me in the past, I would double-check those. It really sounds like the best solution would be to set up some sort of SNMP monitoring / NMS on all of the workstations / servers and their NICs. Quest Foglight and Solarwinds NPM, can do this. After monitoring SNMP traffic you would be able to see what interfaces are having high utilization during those trouble times. Buyer beware, this can be expensive. Quest Foglight will let you monitor up to 200 interfaces, so that may be enough for a good sample. 

It really depends on the applications. Supercedence is only really used when the {GUID} changes. This is normally caused by a major version change (version 3 to version 4). A well maintained software title will only update the version number when doing minor updates (v3.0 to v3.1). You will also find that many msi based software titles will install on top of your old version without issue. Now to your question, SCCM has a pre-built report called "Count inventoried products and versions for a specific product". This will report a count of all inventoried versions of a software. You can then use the "Computers with a specific product name and version" to get a list of computers that have old versions. From what I have been able to find for best practices, you want to keep all application packages that are currently in use. Once the software is no longer in your environment, you can retire the package and delete it once you know not having it isn't causing problems. You can also make a folder in your application management section to store old application packages. SCCM uses unique IDs for everything and doesn't really care how you organize your objects.