When I need to do something like this, I just use sys.objects. After you restore the NewWarehouseDatabase databse, create a Linked Server on the instance where you have WarehouseDatabase to point to the instance where you have the NewWarehouseDatabase databse. Then write an EXCEPT query using sys.objects. Something like this: 

We tried to use ODBC for QB few years ago but gave up on this idea because it was painfully slow! So our developers created an extract application using QB API to export the data we need out of the QB to a CSV file which we import into a table on our SQL Server. This process have it's own drawbacks like when a QB client gets updated to a newer version everybody needs to get on the same version otherwise the export application fails. Again, we developed this few years ago and tested with, perhaps, an old ODBC driver. Also have only handful of QB clients that need to be maintained. This has been working for us all these years. Here is a good starting point if you'd like to start developing an application using QB SDK -- QuickBooks Desktop HTH 

You are missing the schema name in your query. It should be [LINKED_SERVER].[DB_NAME].[SCHEMA_NAME].[OBJECT_NAME]. So in your case, [12.34.56.78].TESTDB.[HERE SHOULD BE YOUR MISSING SCHEMA].test_table It's a public IP address. Hopefully it is a firewall's address that routes the traffic to a SQL Server! If it has a DNS name assigned to it, then you could use it. Or you could create a SYNONYM and forget about typing this long name. 

Even thought the KB point to 2000, it's still true up to 2012. Run through this scenario and see for yourself. STEP#1 

Check this article -- Reversing Log Shipping! Now what you need to do is to take the log backup with NORECOVERY on the primary and restore this log on the secondary with RECOVERY. This will preserve the log chain. 

Now the histogram show the missing ID 7 and the execution plans show the right estimates as well. Query #1: 

MBR cannot handle partitions bigger that 2 TB, thus if your partition is bigger than 2 TB you have to use GPT. There is no performance gain as far as I know. It's all about the capacity! 

T-SQL script which you can use to monitor the status of transactional replication and performance of publications and subscriptions. Things to be considered before executing the below script Requires permission on the following tables inside distribution and master databases 

Passes a new path for storing temporary files if you dont want to use the contents of the TMPDIR environment variable 

Repairing tables with myisamchk The server must be down, or the tables inactive (which is ensured if the --skip-external-locking option is not in use). The syntax is myisamchk [options[ [tablenames]. Remember again that you must be in, or specify, the path to the relevant .MYI files. The following options are available: 

Attempts to recover every possible row from the data file. This option should not be used except as a last resort, as it may produce garbage rows. 

Script 1 The data in this table is populated by the monitoring procedures and provides an historical context for examining issues. But to monitor what is happening right now more is required. There are three things that help to determine the health of replication. 

Following information was found on sybasewiki Hope this helps ! How to start the sybase server? After log in your Linux/Unix machine. 

After we know which users we will drop, the below script can be used to drop the orphaned users taking in account the need to first remove the association to schemas and database roles. 

Answer 3 Script featured on SimpleTalk TSQL as an agent job. Step 1 Create in a DBA database installed on the subscriber server. The code to create the table is: 

I cannot find reference from Microsoft Website but according to the Blog post from Alfred Songy. MS_DataCollectorInternalUser has to do with the Data Collector It is a user account intentially created with no SQL Login and A user created without login obviously cannot connect to the database and therefore I don't see a security risk. My suggestion is that it should not be removed deleting,modifying anything within system database is not a good idea. :) This query below helps to identify Orphaned SQL Server Users. 

Perhaps, if you see a big IO Queue on your SAN, you have a lot of IO bound queries on top of your memory pressure. Check the PLE and Memory Grants Pending counters on this server. If you PLE is very low and you have lots of pending memory grants, your server might benefit from additional memory. Also look if you need to add any indexes (review missing indexes DMV) -- Are you using SQL's Missing Index DMVs? 

I am not sure if there is a better way but something simple like this should do it. If you run this query on the Publisher, it will compare the tables and will return you the difference in tables. The Publisher needs to be linked to the Subscriber. 

Here is the rule to trigger auto update the stats Statistical maintenance functionality (autostats) in SQL Server: 

Look at the table and histogram! The actual table has ID = 7 with 20247 rows but the histogram has no idea that you've just inserted the new data because the auto update didn't trigger. According the the formula you need to insert (20247 * 6) * 0.2 + 500 = 24,796.4 rows to trigger an auto update for stats on this table. Thus, if you look at the plans for these queries you see the wrong estimates: 

Using RCSI on the subscriber(s) is a common way to design this type of a scenario to avoid blocking. RCSI will allow readers and writes to play nice together but won't solve writers blocking writers. Since the report queries are readers and the transactional replication is a writer, this feature is a good fit for this. You just need to make sure that your TempDB is configured to support your workload for the versioning. Also remember that enabling RCSI adds 14 bytes to each inserted/updated row which might cause internal fragmentation. 

Yes, as soon as you pass the threshold of 20% + 500 from the total rows. The auto update will trigger. You can run though this scenario by re-running STEP#1, but then modify STEP#2 by running these queries: 

I am not sure if you're interested in all constraints but INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLE_CONSTRAINTS doesn't seem to return the DEFAULT constraints -- TABLE_CONSTRAINTS (Transact-SQL) 

Unfortunately I'm not aware of limiting characters but you have the option to enable word wrap for SQL Server Management Studio Tools-->Options-->Text Editor-->All Languages-->Settings - Check Word Wrap 

Last process is to periodically delete rows from the replication status table so the data does not get stale 

Pls also consider I also noted that There is an issue with sp_replmonitorsubscriptionpendingcmds if you are still with SQL Server 2005 and 2008 Microsoft Connect If any of the above answer are unclear you can follow the source I have provided Thanks! 

Checks tables (only needed if using mysqlcheck under another name, such as mysqlrepair. See the manual for more details) 

This option stores when the table was checked, and the time of crash, in .MYI file. You can also use wildcard to check all the .MYI tables at the same time, for example: 

QUICK The quickest option, and does not scan the rows to check for incorrect links. Often used when you do not suspect an error. FAST Only checks tables if they have not been closed properly. Often used when you do not suspect an error, from a cron, or after a power failure that seems to have had no ill-effects. CHANGED Same as FAST, but also checks tables that have been changed since the last check. MEDIUM The default if no option is supplied. Scans rows to check that deleted links are correct, and verifies a calculated checksum for all keys with a calculated a key checksum for the rows. EXTENDED The slowest option, only used if the other checks report no errors but you still suspect corruption. Very slow, as it does a full key lookup for all keys for every row. Increasing the key-buffer-size variable in the MySQL config. file can help this go quicker. Note that CHECK TABLE only works with MyISAM and InnoDB tables. If CHECK finds corruption, it will mark the table as corrupt, and it will be unusable. See the Repairing tables section below for how to handle this Checking tables with mysqlcheck The second method is to run the mysqlcheck command-line utility. The syntax is: . The following options pertain to checking (mysqlcheck can also repair, as well as analyze and optimize.