Note that as with your formulas if you calculate the closest 3 this way (by comparing against the 3rd highest value) then it's possible you might actually include 4 or more when there are ties on the 3rd smallest number. 

That would return TRUE for text like A word to the wise or Grease is the word and correctly FALSE for Sword of Damocles.....but you'd also get FALSE for something like My Word! because the exclamation mark negates the match To cope with punctuation, you can use multiple SUBSTITUTE functions, e.g. to ignore comma, semi-colon and exclamation mark you can use this version 

You are very close...... You can use a "union" in function, i.e. a comma separated list of cell references but wrapped in ordinary parentheses, e.g. 

So if your events list has start dates in column C and end dates in column D then with your date list in F2 down use this formula in G2 

If it's actually the closest value required (and not next highest or lowest) then try this "array formula" in Excel assuming lookup value in A1 

It returns the position of the value in the range, so in my example if the first 1 is in , for example, then that's the 9th cell of so the result is 9 

If you have a small number of non-contiguous cells which contain the values to be ranked, e.g. A11, A13, A33, A54, A61 then you can still use function like this 

If you use the correct formula it will adjust for each row, e.g. if first row is 2 with data in and limiting value in you can select the range and use this formula in conditional formatting 

That will sum column A where the corresponding column B value is not equal to H2 AND not equal to H3 If you have a longer list of items to exclude then that way will make for a long formula so another way to exclude a range would be using like this 

If you need it to look like that for display purposes only then here's one way: Put in A1 then in A2 to A4 use these 3 formulas 

with result cell formatted as [h]:mm will give you 9:08 to get 548 just multiply by 1440 (number of minutes in a day), i.e. 

Sounds like should work for you, e.g. if you have counties listed in A2:A160 and associated date in B2:B160 then you can use like this in E2 assuming D2 contains a specific county 

If you mean that column A has numbers and you want to search within a specific range then try this version for "Cabinet 1" (only usin rows with 1-8 in column A) 

Note: either of those could match partial "words" so if A4 is "Rat catcher" that might match with "cat" or "catch" as well as "rat" - you can add in spaces to force the match to be with whole words only, e.g. first formula can be addapted to: 

If you have Excel 2007 or a later version SUMIFS is the standard function for this, you don't need an "array formula". Try 

That does effectively the same as your original except it builds the date as a text string, e.g. for 5th Tuesday in October 2012 it will create this text string 2012-10-30 ....then the +0 at the end co-erces that string to a date, 30-Oct-2012. But if there is no 5th xday then the string created is not a valid date, e.g. for 5th Saturday in October you'd get 2012-10-34. Clearly that isn't a valid date so when you add zero the coercion doesn't work and you get #VALUE! error. If you prefer a text message instead then just use IFERROR, something like this 

Try using "Text to columns" functionality to convert "in situ" Select column of dates then use Data > Text to columns > Next > Next > under "column data format" choose "Date" > in dropdown select MDY > OK Now you should have valid dates which you can reformat any way you want, e.g. dd/mm/yyyy See here 

function does a conditional sum based on values in another range, e.g. for your example you can use this formula in E4 

Another way would be to use custom formatting to change the display in situ: Select your whole range of data in column B, right click > Format Cells > Number > Custom and in the "Type:" box type 0" watts" exactly like that That only changes the display so you can still do calculations with the numbers (like sum the column or similar).....and it won't be applied to cells that are blank or text. Note: that format assumes integers as per the example shown, if you might want decimals or integers change to general" watts" 

.....but if you want to get the next first of month Sunday after any date in A2 you can use this non-array formula: 

If you want column C obviously change both B:B refs to C:C and for both columns together change the second B:B only to C:C The version: 

That formula gave me a result of 24 If you are using Excel take out the arrayformula part and use just 

Note the $ at the start - that's essential Select required font colour > OK repeat for all other text values (I assume you have Excel 2007 or later) 

format red You need to make sure those conditions appear in that order (you can adjust the order within CF) 

You can "copy down" a formula and the references will change automatically, so if you use this formula in F2 

I assume you have Excel 2007 or later (otherwise your formula won't work) so try using COUNTIFS like this 

Some functions will accept a discontiguous range as an argument, e.g. , , , . In this case you could use one of those latter two, e.g. 

format result cell as number or general That works because excel's default "unit" is the day - you want the number of "centiseconds" and there are 8640000 of those in one day (24*60*60*100) 

....but that means "hardcoding" the row number.... If you don't have gaps in the data it might be better to define a "dynamic named range" based on the number of values in the row, e.g. define a name Range based on this formula