I've seen mentions that it's possible to change WebSphere 8.x so that it uses Oracle's JVM instead of IBM's included JVM. Does anyone know how to accomplish this? It does seem possible but I did not see a method mentioned anywhere that shows how to go about doing this. 

This script also takes care of creating the user's directory on remotehost as well and set's the permissions up correctly. 

The above are meant to be run as root. If you're trying to do them using sudo then you'll need to change the syntax slightly to something like these: 

In the newer version of the Azure portal (v3) the steps are slightly different now. If you select virtual machines from the left menu and then select a specific VM and then select Networking you can add inbound/outbound rules for specific ports for each VM. screenshot #1      screenshot #2      References 

I setup an Ubuntu guest on a CentOS KVM host with initially 6GB of disk space. How do I go about increasing the Ubuntu guest's disk space from the command line? EDIT #1: I'm using a disk image file (qemu). 

This can also be adapted to an automount setup so the mounting/unmounting can be handled by the system automatically via autofs. 

Once you're setup your Fedora system so that it will accept remote connections you can use a remote desktop client such as Vinagre, again a Gnome app, from the Applications pull down, Applications -> Internet -> Remote Desktop Viewer. Once this application comes up you'll need to open a connection to a remote server. 

I recently inherited a glusterfs setup that I know literally zero about. One of the HDD's that provides a brick to the volume failed and I was able to replace that HDD and the host OS can see the HDD. I've successfully formatted it and it's sitting in the position where the replaced HDD is now mounted as the HDD it replaced. Here's where I need help. I believe I need to run a heal command of some sort but am rather confused by how to do this with GlusterFS. Here's some of the background info. 

You can also run this command to determine where is and then use to find out what package provides it too. 

With the above setup I initially thought that I could only run the heal command from the primary node of the GlusterFS cluster, but as it turned out, my true issue lied in the fact that the 11 nodes within the GlusterFS cluster were running 2 different versions of GlusterFS. Once I realized this, I updated all the nodes to the latest version of GlusterFS (3.7.3) and was able to perform heals from any of the nodes, as one would expect. 

Finally make sure that any pre-existing files within have their group set to . This can be done like so: 

On the off chance that you only have access to netcat () you can use it to interact with HAProxy's socket file in a similar fashion to . 

Why did this happen? I've had these happen from time to time when one of the members gets out of sync. However if they continue to occur then it's likely a good indication that one of the members is starting to fail, and so you should heed the warning and fully diagnose all the members to make sure they're in good health and also identify which HDD (member) is failing and plan to replace it sooner rather than later. Some distributions may perform a check periodically so you might be getting your array in this state due to these scheduled checks. I believe Debian/Ubuntu may perform a check like this weekly, look for a entry in your system's crontab files or /etc/cron.d directories. Lastly you can manually trigger a check such as this by echoing the command "check" to the RAID's file under . Example As root: 

If you want it to show up on a shell invocation it needs to go in . The directory is for logins (, or into the box). Check out the INVOCATIONS section of the bash man page if you want more info on the differnces. 

I think you could turn this around and not disable the functions in your file but then disable them on a directory per directory basis in either a file or your Apache file, if you're using Apache as your web server. Other web servers most likely offer this feature too. According to this blog post, you can override php flag and value settings in in your file. For example you could do the following: 

Method #3: Using an Apache Reverse Proxy If you're attempting to take traffic in on say URL $URL$ but your actual blog is at $URL$ then another option would be to reverse proxy the mysuperblog.blogger.com behind an Apache instance tasked with sitting out in front. 

We've been using KVM for 6+ months and haven't had any problems. I've used other virtualization technologies such as OpenVZ, VMware, and Virtualbox. 

When you setup the database connection info for wordpress did you specify your computer LAN IP address or localhost (127.0.0.1)? Given everything is running on the same host I would suggest using localhost anywhere you might be specifying your LAN IP address. Also I would check to make sure that is listening on both localhost IP as well as your computers LAN IP. You can do this using . In the example above I'm listing out all the processes that are using a network connection. You're looking for processes that are listening on port 3306 (item #1 in my screenshot which is listening on port 80). The program that's associated with this port is item #2, TeamViewer in my example. Item #3 is the process ID of the running program, 1588. You want to make sure that for item #1 the IP address reads either 0.0.0.0, you LAN IP, or localhost. It may read a combination of those or all three. The important thing is that the program is listening on the IP address that you're using when you try and connect.