I installed VirtualBox on my Windows 7 machine. Through VirtualBox, I installed Ubuntu 9.10 with apache2. I can view from Ubuntu, but is there anyway I can view it from my windows machine too? i.e. run the apache server on ubuntu, and view it from windows? I figured it would open a port or something that would be visible to my whole computer regardless of its virtualness, but I guess not. How do I get around this? 

Better yet would be if it encrypted and uploaded in one swoop, without wasting a ton of disk space while it copies everything to my C drive (which is a tiny SSD). 

I went here $URL$ and downloaded the latest display driver, ran the installer, it said it installed correctly. Then I opened Device Manager, and opened the driver details. It says Driver Version , and driver date , but the web page says it should be version , so I think I'm behind. I've got some display issues I'd like to be fixed... 

Chrome says its my default browser but every time I click a link in an external program it opens in Firefox. How can I change my default browser? Note that Firefox also thinks its the default browser. 

I'm using the Crop (C) tool to crop 3 or 4 images out of a larger image. After I crop each image and save it, I have to hit undo a bunch of times to uncrop it and get back to the original image. I'd rather just crop the image to a new file/tab. Is that possible? 

I just bought a blue-tooth dongle about 2 days ago but for some reason I can't get it to work when my cell phone is 10 feet away . It only works when I am within 1 metre range. According to what it says in the box, the dongle is suppose to provide me with 100 metre range. I was not provided any CD/DVD driver. Is there any other additional settings or changes that I need to perform. I am using windows XP SP3, 32 bit. Edit: Its very small in size (hardly 1 cm long) , can it be due to the size of the dongle ? 

The Fan attached to my CPU cabinet is making a lot of noise especially when I switch on my PC in the morning. The screws on them are not too tight nor are they too loose. This ridiculous chainsaw like sound is driving me crazy. Please HELP !! 

How do I manually download a streaming video (I use Firefox). I don't wanna use any add-ons or any 3 rd party software or anything else. I just want to save my streaming videos manually. How can I do this ? 

Whenever I connect my USB dongle near the port where my headphone is plugged, I hear some disturbing , annoying sound from my headset. Why is this happening ? 

Currently my Computer is kept on a small table. The Speakers are kept behind my monitor (LCD). So is it safe to play a song or something on high volume (with high bass) ? Will it affect my LCD ? My speaker: 

I'm looking for a way to launch 64-bit programs in a Chinese, Japanese, and Russian locale without changing my current system locale (which is English). With Microsoft's AppLocale I was able to launch 32-bit programs in any locale but AppLocale doesn't launch 64-bit programs in a locale different to the system locale. I currently use Windows 8.1 x64 

On Windows 10 this is very easy to do. Go to Settings > Devices > Pen and turn off Show Visual Effects 

I want to merge 2 non-adjacent partitions. Since partitions need to be adjacent to be merged with disk partitioning tools, I plan to create a copy of the partition that is in between the ones I want to merge and then delete it. From left to right, the lineup is regular storage partition, System Partition (created during Windows 10 installation), and Boot Partition (contains the Windows 10 OS). If I copy the System Partition into unallocated space to the left of the regular storage partition, can I safely delete the original System Partition? Meaning that it shouldn't cause any kind of system errors? Note: To make the copy of the system partition, I will be using EaseUS Partition Master. This is what I have: 

I have an MP3 player that uses a micro SD card as storage. The SD card is formatted in exFAT. When I browse files in the MP3 by folder location, the order of album tracks is not in alphabetical order but instead the files are in the order in which they were added. I have added the track number in front of each song (e.g. "01 TrackA" and "02 TrackB") but it still doesn't show in order. The only workaround I've found is to transfer the files to the SD card, then after transfer is complete, I take all the tracks out of the album folder and sort them alphabetically in Windows File Explorer, then I move the tracks back to the album folder. That way, they show up in alphabetical in order when I browse them on the MP3 player. I would like to find a way to automatically sort all the files in the SD alphabetically instead of having to go through the above process for each music album. I've heard of some programs that can sort FAT32 drives but haven't seen any for exFAT. 

My screen flickers at 1280 x 1024, 75 hertz, 32 bit color, Dell Monitor e190s 19 inch square monitor. This problem only at the above mentioned resolution , it works fine with other resolutions. I just bought this Monitor 2 days back, do you think the Monitor is defective ? Why is this problem occurring , the system says this is the recommended resolution. Can it be due to my graphic Card ATI xpress 200, 256 MB (in built). Pentium 4 Windows 7 32 bit OS 

Is it possible to control my Computer using a Remote Control device (something similar to our TV Remotes) ? So that I don't have to get up from my sofa or bed to turn of my computer or switch it on or to play, pause , stop a movie. I am using windows XP SP3 PRO 32 bit. 

I have heard that its not safe to keep magnets or anything that produces static electricity near my computer. So is it safe to plug in my Bluetooth dongle ? Will it harm any of my computer components in any way? 

What is difference between LAN and VLAN. Which one is suited for broadcasting messages How to set up VLAN. What are their advantages and disadvantages Edit: If I write a program for VLAN then will it run if I don't have a switch. (Each computer connected to one another just using a cable to form a simple LAN)