Sorry for the long post. I tried to make it small but couldn't make it any smaller. Any help would be really appreciated. It would be great if you can explain from the basics. In the book "Computer Networking A Top-Down Approach" the following is written: "One important characteristic of cable Internet access is that it is a shared broadcast medium. In particular, every packet sent by the head end travels down- stream on every link to every home and every packet sent by a home travels on the upstream channel to the head end. For this reason, if several users are simultaneously downloading a video file on the downstream channel, the actual rate at which each user receives its video file will be significantly lower than the aggregate cable downstream rate. On the other hand, if there are only a few active users and they are all Web surfing, then each of the users may actually receive Web pages at the full cable downstream rate, because the users will rarely request a Web page at exactly the same time." I am getting totally confused by this, as I am having problems figuring out how exactly does broadcasting work in the case of cable networks. It is said that every packet sent by the head end travels downstream to every home. Now suppose the Cable Head End is transmitting a packet with, say, ContentX, and suppose 10 homes are connected to it. In this case 10 ContentX packets will be sent through the link, and each home will get one. But suppose 3 homes are simultaneously searching for Content1, Content2 and Content3 respectively, and the rest of the homes are inactive. In this case the Cable Head End will broadcast packets of Content1, Content2, and Content3 to each home. Which means, there will be 10 Content1 packets, 10 Content2 packets, and 10 Content3 packets in the network (as every packet is broadcasted to all users). So, shouldn't the downstream rate in this case be even lower (because there are more packets to be sent in the same available bandwidth, there will be congestion) than the time when everyone is trying to download the same video because, no matter what, the Cable Head End will transmit the video packets to every house? So, its better if everyone is asking for those broadcasted packets itself rather than asking for different packets. I can feel that it is intuitively wrong to imagine that the downstream rate would be higher in case of many active users, rather than a few active users. But please help me figure out what is it that I am not getting here. P.S.: In case of packet switches, if a packet arrives at a broadcast address, the switch makes copies of the packet and sends out through all the outgoing links. So, it there are many such broadcast requests arriving at the switch, the switch will have to make copies of packets for each of those requests and that would overload the network and ultimately reduce the content download rate at each host. This is what I think will happen. Why does the opposite happen in cable network? 

Michael, there are many problems with your post. Your topology is not here so we don't know if there any routes at all to route. To be able to route the traffic to another node, you have to have it first. With one ISP, can you really create a routing difference unles you are talking about a more complicated internal network where you have multiple routers etc? Your ISP meets you at your doorstep and takes your traffic away. You don't have a say then how this traffic will be routed. You can check it by issuing a tracert command. Plus if you are writing a route for one specific public IP address, you should give 255.255.255.255 subnet mask. If you want to change the route for all nodes in your network, it would be enough to write the route to the Layer3 device only i.e. router. You don't have to add static routes to all PCs. If everybody has the same default gateway and the gateway is located just before meeting routing alternatives then you can add the route to this device. But Michael,It is not clear to me what you are trying to achieve and what sort of setup do you have.. So I might have just talked rubbish :) Regards.. 

I've been trying to add a WiFi AP to one of our mechanic's buildings. I have the same WiFi/VLAN network set up in a couple other buildings, all set up on VLAN 80. I added the port on the switch where the AP was connected to VLAN 80, and I was able to get an IP address from our DHCP server by plugging in the laptop with an ethernet cable. But when I connect the WiFi AP to that same port, any device that tries to connect to it cannot get an IP address. I originally was working with Ubiquiti UniFi APs, but have also tried a Cisco E1200 we had laying around. I even configured the Ubiquiti while it was attached to a working switch in a different building, had it configured and working with a static IP, but still when I plugged it in the other switch, no device could connect. I have VLAN interface 80 set up with the IP 10.0.8.247 and the IP helper address of our DHCP server 10.0.1.214. The switch is one of the Cisco Small Business ESW-520-24, is there something i'm missing on why the DHCP requests won't go through the AP, but will work if directly connected? Link to download Wireshark Log 

Switches come in different flavours JavaDeveloper. Why do you need a switch? Because you want more than 2 hosts to share a common communication medium. If you have 2 PCs and they are not far away from each other you could connect an ethernet cable between them, assign IP addresses and start communicating. What if you have 15 PCs? Then you want to have a shared medium, a meeting ground where all are available. Let's carry on with the same analogy. You plugged in your switch, did the cabling, employed an IP distribution mechanism and assigned each a 192.168.1.x/24 address. You will see that they can reach other. You can create a shared folder on one and send/receive files from others, you are connected. Now imagine you wanted you and your neighbours' PCs to communicate, he uses a different subnet plus you don't have enough ethernet ports. You now need another mechanism that will route the traffic between you two. You found a router with two interfaces and connected a cable from your switch to one interface and another cable from your neighbours's switch to the oher interface. Why did you plug this cable to switches but not a printer? Because everybody is there and available. If you see the world from the router's point of view, I have 2 networks on each side, one speaks German, other one speaks French. In order to be able to let you 2 communicate it has to speak both languages. That's why on each router interface, you assign an IP address from each subnet to the correct side (yours will be 192.168.1.x/24). He is your virtual gate to your neighbour's house. If your network needs to communicate your neighbours, you have to knock on the virtual door. The address you just assigned at the router interface is your network's gateway to the other network which makes sense right? If you have a PC that only communicates with your printer, you don't need to assign him a gateway address why should you? He always stays at home. When does a switch talk to router? When it needs to contact other adjacent or reachable networks. (as other people wrote down, there are layer 3 switches thatt can be assigned IP addresses from other networks enabling you to meet everybody there but I won't talk about that. I wrote long, please don't get me wrong, there are other people who can make use of this thread) Hope this helps. 

I am trying to set up a new WiFi AP in our HR building. There is a closet in the HR building, with a switch connected by fiber to our main network closet, then to another network closet where the FiOS is at. I set up a "no switchport" interface on the switch that is directly connected to the Sonicwall with IP 10.0.8.247. I've created the VLAN on our VTP server switch, and I created the route on the switch directly connected to the Sonicwall. From the switch in the HR building I am able to ping the 10.0.8.247 interface, but not the Sonicwall interface of 10.0.8.1, and I am able to ping the Sonicwall from the directly connected switch. I've included a map of how I have it set up, still very new with Cisco and have been struggling with this for a few days. Any help would be greatly appreciated! Middle Switch Bottom Switch 

When it comes to ISP redundancy, if your circumstantes allow it i.e. you own a Public IP address or subnet; you could use BGP protocol which would connect you to internet with more than one ISP. They would both point your network from internet ad you could assign priority. That's a method. Secondly you could have a load balancer like a Peplink device.You have multiple WAN ports on load balancers and can establish clever and flexible algorithms on it. You don't have to use such a device to use 1 active connection. In theory you could have 3 ISPs at the same time and divide your traffic on the way to the internet based on your source addresses, destination addresses and protocols for example. Thirdly, you could use things like IP SLA commands to costantly check if one ISP available, as soon as it goes down the traffic could be diverted to second ISP. In order to do this you should have L3 devices that can support these capabilities. Hope this helps. 

Made a diagram for a new network we are going to be laying out here. I have never done this before, and i'm still fairly new to Cisco / Networking, so does anyone see any issues with the way I have it laid out? We are moving to an ERP platform for all business operations soon, and it is a web driven app that we will be hosting, so performance for that is probably the most critical thing I am worried about. 

Having difficulty grasping STP and if we would need it with the topology we have. The diagram is a top down view of our layout, and each "layer" is a different building connected by fiber, orange links are fiber, blue are Cat5e. In my rookie opinion, it doesn't look like we have anywhere that would cause a broadcast storm, am I wrong? 

If I understand you correctly, you could remove the application of ACL from the interface first, edit or rewrite (copy-paste) your ACL and re-apply to the interface. This is if I got you right. 

The sales guy might have meant the latency advantage. Although the capacity (diameter of a tap/pipe for example) is the same, fiber may be able to carry traffic quicker and therefore perform better (water speed in the pipe). 

I think you could either bridge your connections (NICs) at PC2 or write a static route on command line to get 2 networks talk to each oher. If your switch is manageable you could also write an ACL not to allow outbound connections towards PC1 network. Just thinking also, if you removed the default gateway from the nodes on your lower network tthey can stay isolates, am I wrong? Regards...