I want to do some work on a document.xml file. I created a Word document which gave me the .docx file. I added the .zip extension and when I unarchived it, it become the document folder. In the document.xml, I could find the specific test that I was interested in ediging. I made some changes, closed file. I then archived and removed the .zip extension. Apple Pages wanted to open but both times, I got 'An unkown error occured' as output. Am I doing something wrong or is there some say to rectify? thx 

Maybe a simple question but I'm a little frustrated. I must have changed a setting in Textmate but can't seem to figure out what I have done. I can place the cursor in any place on a line even after a line break (can see the line break by showing invisibles). How do I set it so that it always goes back to end of line based upon new line character rather than anyplace in the line (including after the line break)? For example, using the down arrow key will just place me into the line at textmate of where cursor was rather than at end of the current line. thx 

I have a PC with an SSD and an HDD. I'm running linux. I wish to put all the static (very rarely changing) files on the SSD and the rest on the HDD. To achieve that I'd like to have /boot, /usr, /lib, /bin, /etc, /opt on the SSD and the rest - /var, /tmp, /home on the HDD. However, I do not wish to create a separate partition for each of them, I want each group to be on its own partition. I suppose that I could mount the SDD to /, the HDD to /mnt/hdd and symlink /home, etc. to point to /mnt/hdd/home, etc. Are there problems I can expect with such a setup? Such as a program attempting to read from/write to /var early in the boot process before the HDD is mounted? Will logging work as normal if /var (and /var/log) aren't on the root partition? What would be the best way to solve this? 

I wish to make Vim open every file in read-only mode. My use case is that I use Vim as both my editor and a gdb frontend via the Pyclewn plugin. I typically have one instance of Vim open for editing and another for debugging. I wish that the debugging instance would always open source files in read-only mode so that I do not get the ".swp file already exists" prompt, or that I accidentally edit a file without meaning to. 

What's the easiest way to check the amount of memory used by the linux kernel on a running sytem? In general, does the kernel memory footprint stay the same on a running system under stress? thx 

I'm using Apple Time Machine on Snow Leopard to backup a MBPro and am approx 2 hours into initial backup (70GB of 335GB). I'd like to 'Stop Backing Up' because I need to go someplace with my laptop. If I stop, will it start in same place? I can see the inProgress file on backup drive. thx 

I have a google apps account and on my user name is Jonathan Something but my 'from' email address is set to soemthing different than what my user name is. Where do I change this? thx edit 1 here is a screenshot of problem 

I get the invalid option error. Is this just a syntax issue or might there be some other conifguration issue? How would I fix this? 

I am getting a strange graphics issue on Mavericks with the Finder and it also happens in the Application Switcher. I have rebooted but not really sure what to do next. It's clearly many of them so probably more systemic than just a corrupted single file. Any ideas on what is going on or how to fix? edit #1 having spent about an hour and a few reboots, it has really just been the finder bar and application switcher (and only specific icons amongst those - the actual icons don't change). any other ideas appreciated! 

If it was possible without breaking the drive you would need access to the firmware, but companies do not allow that for obvious reasons. The best you could do is make sure your drive's firmware is up to date or buy a faster drive. 

Your best bet would be if your motherboard supported raid 1 and you did it with an external drive. But if you are going to do that you might as well just the same harddrive as your current one and run a real raid 1. I'm not even sure if raid between a sata and esata ports works. If you are talking about having a new installation of windows 7 ready to go, not a duplicate of your current one, then I would say buy another harddrive, install windows to that drive as well, and use it like a dual boot system, but only boot to the secondary drive if the primary one fails. 

Open the document on your screen, zoom in on the picture to make it as large as possible but all of it is still visible. Press alt+prnt scrn (or the equivalent on your operating system) and it should take a screen shot of the program. Now open up paint or your favorite image editor (photoshop, gimp, etc) paste in the picture and crop out anything you don't want. 

I want to install Windows 7 on a PC that currently has linux installed. My HDD is using the MBR partitioning scheme and its layout is like this: 130MB free space; swap partition(primary); 1.9TB ext4 partition(primary); 100GB free space I know that Windows 7 needs to create both a boot and a root partition for itself. The question is if (and how) I can ask it to use the first 130MB free space as a boot partition and the last 100G as a root partition. If that is not possible, I'd like to know what options I'll have regarding partitioning when installing Windows 7. 

You might want to try instead of 1, but it resulted in re-encode in my test. To get higher video quality, lower the -crf setting, generally 20-28 is the recommended range with lower values producing higher quality. I haven't tried doing two-pass encoding, cbr or abr, but it should work. You can also lower the audio to 192k bitrate. IMPORTANT: Note that you'll need to set to be half of your frame rate. In this example I'm encoding a 30fps video so I've set GOP to 15. If your source is 24fps, set it to 12, if it's 60fps, set it to 30. I know this is an old question, but it's the first result on Google when you search for "ffmpeg options for youtube". Edit: I got these options from $URL$