If the user has a or file in the home directory, then that may change delivery behavior. Check the logs in to see if there are any hints. CHeck any of the messages in the mail queue to see where they originated. It is not unusual for scripts to capture their output and send the mail themselves. You didn't include the original email, but that should indicate whether CRON sent the email, or the script did. 

I don't know about creating the directories, but the rest should be handled by filters and dynamic file names. Normally in a case like this I would log file pattern like. 

I have always scheduled cronjobs at random times (especially minutes). I commonly see cron examples that run at midnight like: 

To move the master node from on server to another you need to copy the directory tree to the new server. You may want to use to do this. Try the copy and run both servers in parallel for a bit. If you don't want to loose history, you may want to copy files directory by directory or server by server in between munin data fetches. Use scp or some other unconditional copy for those copies. Fetches at five minute intervals on the fives. If the copy runs fast enough, or you don't mind missing a sample you can shutdown the new server while you run the final copy. Once you are happy with the new server, shutdown munin on the old server. 

It appears you want a reject or drop policy on your chains. The default is accept. As others have noted RELATED and ESTABLISHED connections will be accepted. From the looks of your rules you are establishing rules piece by piece rather than with policies and rules. Try installing Shorewall firewall. It is packed for many distributions. The documentation is good and there are working example configurations for 1, 2, and 3 interfaces. This covers standalone systems, firewalls, and firewalls with a DMZ. 

Remote access is common in production environments which may have one or more web servers in front of a database server. Development environments often have looser security requirements than production, although make it as secure as possible. 

The sending client should handle this case. Postfix should not accept the message for the invalid recipient. From the dialog you have included it is behaving correctly. It is the responsibility of the sending software to provide the appropriate notifications. If it has accepted the message, the sender may be fake so you do not want to send a bounce message. If you do send a bounce message after the message has been accepted. Sending such backscatter spam is bad practice, and may reduce the reputation of your server. Servers that receive backscatter spam may refuse your mail or assign it to the spam box. 

It looks like you want a DNS service for your local area network. Many routers will not support this but some do. Those based on DD-WRT or OpenWRT should allow you to add local entries. It is incorrect to reply with a private network address to a query originating from the internet. Possible solutions are or running on a Linux server. Configure the router to use this for DNS lookups. If you are already running you can use split DNS to provide different answers to the Internet from those provided the local area network. The simple solution is to add a file entry to any devices that need to connect by domain. This works for both Linux and Windows although the files are located in different directories. 

You may find a virtual server is better. You can checkpoint the state, then restore it at the end of your test. This environment would probably be a better proxy for a real server. KVM is easy to setup and build with. 

This is a common setup. Large organizations often use subdomains for non-personal mail types. Servers sending you mail will look for the MX record for the fully qualified domain receiving the mail. Your domain and subdomain are different fully fully qualified domains. You can point your MX record(s) to any hosts that are configured to receive mail for your domain. Ensure your mail server is configured to accept mail for your subdomain. It is common for mail servers to be configured to send and receive as the organization's domain. You may need to reconfigure so that it is configured to send and receive mail for your subdomain. 

You may be better off using a local certificate authority for OpenVPN. This will give you better access control. You can limit access to clients signed by that authority. It is unlikely you will be able to sign certificates for clients with your paid certificates. Signing certificates are usually significantly more expensive. You can use your paid certificates for other servers such as LDAP, SMTP, IMAP, and POP as long as the domain matches the certificate. Like any other servers ensure you secure these services before enabling them over the network. 

Squid proxy should be able to do this. You will need to configure it to require logins. There are several authenticators available. You may need to adjust the log format to include the authenticated user id. 

An SMTP server will take longer to deliver in these cases, but it is more likely to deliver. If your configuration is not correctly done, you still will have failed deliveries. If you aren't delivering personalized messages, then sending to multiple recipients in one request may help. Depending on how the SMTP server works, sending to multiple recipients in the same domain may be better. In general these settings, if available, should help. 

The default ssh module does not seem to work. It will fail if your key is password protected. From the forums, this module has had ongoing issues. Some seem to tie to issues with libssh2 suport in PHP5. It seems to be broken again in PHP 7. SSH SFTP Updater Support does work for me. I have installed Version 0.7.1 | By TerraFrost 

What happens you try to send mail to norepy@teltub.com from yahoo.com? It should work, even if it goes to the bit bucket. Also ensure that both abuse and postmaster addresses are valid. 

This is accepted use of the database, and the reason you see that line in the file. Adding entries after that line allows you to quickly identify local additions. It is common for the /etc/services database to be incomplete, so you may be adding some registered ports. Some tools will accept ports by name if they are available from /etc/services, or an equivalent source. The one risk you have is loosing the additions when patching the O/S as /etc/services may be updated. Make sure you have a copy of the local services that you can quickly append to the new file. Consider automating the addition of missing entries to the file. If you assign ports for services like NFS and VNC, this is a good location to record those ports. VNC has defined port ranges NFS plays better with firewalls, if you configure it to use fixed ports. When possible, I would recommend using the IANA registered service ports, even if they aren't listed in the supplied /etc/services file. This can prevent future issues if they get added to the file.