Hey you could have just googled that and the first link is your answer. Here. Do some research before asking please. Here's the steps in short: 

The password is bcpb+ the serial number of the firewall (letters of the serial number are in UPPERCASE format) 

I have a server hardware with installed windows server and DHCP server running on it. My network is 192.168.0.0/24. A small issue we just faced is the client machines could not get an IP address from the dhcp server. I then checked that the server nic with the IP 192.168.0.250 which runs the dhcp server also had one more IP address in the 190/8 range. This was probably assigned for some testing purposes. Once I removed the 190 IP the problem seemed to have been resolved. Microsoft's dhcp troubleshooting document mentions this in the first scenario but says nothing about multiple IPs on the same NIC. I just needed to confirm if that was the issue or something else is happening under the hood. I have this query also because on this same network I had some issues like random machines not pinging their default gateway but could very well ping and access the rest of the network. I am no expert at wireshark but during a wireshark packet capture test i could see some STP packets and later learned that STP is disabled. The network layout to my best knowledge is as below. One more doubt i have is that will those multiple links going to the storage in anyway cause network loops. I don't have the idea about their configuration as of now. 

I am not able to understand any of the config, which commands are these? I can tell you about vlans and routing them to the internet. 

Are the sites using https? You should take a look at blocking https enabled and follow that guide. Also some google sites now use their new QUIC protocol and even enabling https will not block it so you need to block that as well and then block the sites using the normal https blocking method. 

See i made a similar topology and uploaded to drive. The ports connecting from to L3-sw to L2-sw and L2-sw to L3-sw both need to be trunked to carry all the vlans. And the port connecting to pc should be access and assigned to the vlan you want. Also create both the vlans on L3-sw along with the interfaces for those vlans. If you want inter-vlan routing then also enable: 

connect to the fgt with a com cable, if not com port then use USB cable with fortiexplorer. Start the console. reboot the device and wait for it to ask for the username Type in the username: 

This is late but finally. I have now found the answer to it. It’s a weird situation. I had opened a ticket with Fortinet’s TAC for the printer query which I have posted and he just enabled NAT on the WI-FI interface on which the printer is connected and the issue was resolved. After this with another client of mine, I faced the same situation this time with an NAS storage device. And voila I had to enable NAT on the interface to which the NAS box was connected to. For some reason any such device like printers, NAS etc. don’t seem to respond to communication from another subnet on the same fortigate and NAT solves the problem. The same setup works fine if it was a PC in place of the printer. 

Rip and Replace Once all the setup and configuration tasks are done, it should just be a matter of swapping hardware. This should take only minutes. 

Obligatory Answer for a Windows Workstation (I've never seen such a setup on a Mac, but it might help to know what works on windows.) I assume you require access to each of the VLANs to perform network administration tasks on those VLANs. NIC and Driver with VLAN Support I have had success using Intel mobile adapters that support VLANs on Windows desktop OSes. In that case, the Intel driver adds a special tab to the properties dialog box. In that dialog box you can create different virtual network adapters for each VLAN, which you can enable and disable to switch between the VLANs. VMs are your Friend I found switching between VLANs on a single OS to be rather cumbersome for everything but the most basic administration tasks. Inevitably you'll end up in a troubleshooting task where you need simultaneous positive connections to multiple VLANs. The challenge in doing that on a single operating system is that you'll end up with multiple possible paths for your packets -- one for each VLAN. In general, controlling to which network adapter (and therefore VLAN) an application on a single OS sends its packets is difficult or impossible to control. On the other hand, if you have multiple VMs, you can enable exactly one network adapter corresponding to the VLAN to which you want to connect. Then you have certainty over which VLAN everything on that entire VM is using. I've done some pretty elaborate network troubleshooting from a single pane of glass that way. Actually, that link is also a great example of the uncertainty of which network adapter an application (in that case Chrome) ended up sending its packets. Without VMs, you will severely limit your ability to troubleshoot. 

Post-Replacement Tests At this point, at least basic connectivity should be working on the ASA. To prove the different aspects of workingness, do at least the following: 

Suppose also that is connected to the internet with a Cisco ASA as its gateway at . The purpose of and is to allow us to replicate as closely as possible the servers on the network so that we can safely test changes to them without impacting production. If you naively replicate the servers on the network and connect them to then they retain their IP addresses as shown in the above table. Now suppose I want to also provide a connection to the internet for the network through the same Cisco ASA. It seems like this would be a problem because the ASA would base its routing decisions on IP addresses of which there are now duplicates on different VLANs. This leaves me with the following questions: 

For IOS Cisco published How to Choose IOS Software Release which, among other things, defines the nomenclature for the version numbers (ie. format ) and software image type (ie. vs. etc). I have not found an equivalent document for ASA. Surely there is some careful release engineering going on by Cisco to strive for stability in some ASA releases and new features in others. I haven't, however, found any document that helps me to sort between the two priorities. I expect to read the release notes to establish what features are available in each release, but without other information I'd still be guessing at how stable each release is. I guess I'm left with the following questions: 

Since i don’t have access to this switche for practice before doing this live in production i need to clear some doubts in my head. So here is my plan, i would really appreciate if you could check it to see if im headed right. 1.Configure vlan 2 and 3 interface with .1 ips as per the subnet, assign ports and configure the clients to use them as the gateway. question: Does tagged port simply mean an access port on just a single vlan and a port tagged on many different vlans means a trunk port? what does an untagged port mean then? 2.Add a static route on the switch as 0.0.0.0/0 with 192.168.1.1 0.0.0.255 as next hop which is the firewall. Does the L3 switch allow its interfaces to be assigned an ip address? On packet tracert I had to do "no switchport" before i could assign an ip to an interface on the L3 switch 3.Add reverse routes on the firewall for both the vlan subnets with 192.168.1.2 as the next hop for the internet to work. 4.Configure firewall policies to allow traffic from 192.168.2.0 and 3.0 subnets to the internet. Does the switch to firewall /30 link need trunk ports? as that is going to on vlan1. At this stage the internet should get started on both vlans. My next phase of config is to block the entire vlan 3 from accessing one particular host on vlan2. And then allow only certain hosts on vlan2(printers) to be accessible from vlan3. This is proving to be confusing, i could really use some help here. Also the plan is to use static IPs for now, but if we decide to go with dhcp I would be configuring the switch itself as the dhcp server. I am aware of creating the dhcp pools, how do i assign them to the vlans though? Do we use the ip helper cmd in this case? eg: pools: 

Also if i am to add a access point in either of the vlans, the AP would to the vlan port on the switch and does it need to have vlan tagging enabled as well? 

Create vlans. Terminate the vlans. This can be a L3 switch where the vlan gateway is an virtual vlan interface on the switch itself or subinterfaces on a router. The router between your vlans and the internet should have a static route back to each of your vlans. Because the router can't see of your vlans and doesn't know those networks and hence can't send back the reply packets to them. 

Note: On some devices, after the device boots, you have only 14 seconds or less to type in the username and password. It might, therefore, be necessary to have the credentials ready in a text editor, and then copy and paste them into the login screen. There is no indicator of when your time runs out so it is possible that it might take more than one attempt to succeed. 

As seen in the diagram is such a network setup possible? The port forwarding works just fine when I try it from an internet connection from somewhere outside my office but says timeout when trying it from the 6.0 network. I am doing this on a fortigate but we can just think of it as any router i guess. appreciate all help, thanks. 

After experimenting with this, I have made a few discoveries that end up dictating which path to choose. Multiple subnet advertisements means multiple IPs in the same subnet If you have multiple routers advertising the same prefix, you don't end up with redundancy, you end up with multiple IP addresses in the same prefix/subnet. This is like assigning yourself both 192.168.0.1 and 192.168.0.2 on the same NIC. It works, but it causes problems. For example I was running a DNS server on one of these machines, and when clients were querying it through the primary IP, it was responding on the second one. Clients were ignoring this response assuming someone was trying to spoof them, instead waiting for a reply on the same IP they sent the query to, so DNS completely broke. Static IPs and router advertisements don't mix (for the same prefix) You might think, as I did, that assigning a static IP in the same subnet would prevent an automatic IP assignment from the same prefix. After all, in IPv4 if you have a static IP address, DHCP doesn't give you another one. This is wrong. You get the static IP address alright, but you also get a second one in the same subnet/prefix thanks to the advertisement from the router. The end result is two IPs in the same subnet, leading to the same problem as above. Advertise a different prefix In the end the only solution that works is this one. It requires letting go of a few IPv4 ideas though. My goal was to mimic my IPv4 setup with IPv6. That is, assign a few machines fixed addresses, and have the rest dynamic, while having everything as robust as possible. And hopefully not having to run a DHCP server anymore. By having a router advertise a ULA prefix, all hosts will self-assign their addresses, just like with DHCP. But you can't have multiple routers advertising that prefix. Maybe in some fancier setup you could have a backup router take over if it notices that the primary one has stopped advertising, but this isn't possible at present. However, you don't have to be tied to placing fixed and dynamic IPs in the same subnet with IPv6. ULA addresses have the facility to specify a subnet (up to 65536 of them), so I ended up using that so that the /48 ULA prefix had two /64 subnets in it. The router advertises one for stateless config (equivalent to DHCP) while the other is not advertised anywhere and used for static IPs configured on each host. You can even use a third ULA subnet for a backup router in case the primary one stops advertising its ULA, just to be sure that your hosts always have a site-wide routable address, even when no global IPs are available. Thanks to the magic of IPv6 there is no need to set up any routing rules when this all happens within the same LAN segment. Everyone gets a dynamic address, and the machines with fixed addresses get a static IP as well, but as they are in different /64 subnets, there is little confusion. The only issue is that those hosts with fixed IPs should always used the fixed IPs to talk to each other. If a connection is made to the dynamic IP from a host who has lost its dynamic IP, it will make the connection out from the remaining static IP instead - which means the multi-homed server will reply back using its own static IP and you'll again have the mismatch. But as long as hosts with static IPs always use the static subnet to talk to each other then there is never a problem. Multi-homed hosts can of course talk to those in the dynamic subnet without any problem as well.