With the numbers you talk about above I'd either go for a regular grid or sweep and prune. They are both relatively simple to update each frame. For a regular grid, you mostly just need to clear each grid cell, and re-hash all the game objects each frame. Sweep and Prune can be even easier, you just need to maintain a sorted list in 1 dimension, its pretty good for long linear levels (2d Platformers etc). If your really interested, I suggest you read this, a pretty detailed comparison of various algorithms in different use cases. $URL$ 

I've been using ECS for a while, at the moment I'm using my own, but it's pretty standard. Components are data only, Entities pretty much just a Map with some additional metadata and Systems that match combinations of components and contain the logic. You have combinations of components that result in the more general functionality. For example Position + Graphics gives me some nice static background image. Position + Graphics + Physics gives me a entity that can move around etc etc This question is about the various options for implementing more specific game logic. But say I want to implement a Door. It has Position, Graphics and a Collidable Hull but it needs 2 states, open and closed. When its open it has texture A and its Collidable Hull is disabled, and when its closed it has texture B and its Collidable Hull is enabled. Lets say the state change should be triggered across some internal channel in the engine. What are the options for implementing this state change? Option 1 is to create Door component, with say 2 variables, door state and state change channel. I'd also need a door system that handled the logic to manipulate the components when it receive the open/close message. Option 2 would be to create a FSM. The FSM is probably also a component with a corresponding FSM System. Logic and state would need to reside somewhere, possibly by sub-classing the FSM or having a generic property map in the FSM and static logic functions for the Door defined elsewhere. There are more exotic alternatives to FSM's i.e. Actions Lists or Behaviour trees, but they are similar to option 2. What considerations are there for choosing a full component/system over an more generic FSM type solution? What if I had 100 different game objects with different behaviours? Would you really expect 100 component/system pairs for each one or would you try and create a more generalized solution? Are there any other options? 

I would like to know how can I achieve this kind of screen transition effect ? The effect is screen independent. $URL$ 

Hi How can I remove far clipping in Water4Advance so that it matches near view like following img? Currently far view water seems plaine with no wave n bumps at all. 

I would like to know whys in which one can spawn skateboard under player like we see in subway surfers. My best two guesses are, 1.Spawnning skateboard and then making it child of player. 2.Changing current child prefab of player with skateboard attached prefab. With first approach ,its get complicated to know exact character's leg position. What you think is the best way? if you know any other good way then please mention . Thanks in advance 

I am looking for ways to improve my traffic AI for endless racing game. Currently, I have hard coded situations where randomly cars will be spawned ahead of user bike depending on position of player. The thing most bothering me is how to provide user challenging situations where he will feel fun to play. Good example of such AI can be found here, $URL$ What are the ways you guys would go on implementing Traffic AI for endless racing? What's your suggestion on same. 

I found a workaround,use following code to do it so, PrefabUtility.ReplacePrefab(gameObject, PrefabUtility.GetPrefabParent(gameObject), ReplacePrefabOptions.ConnectToPrefab); 

I have custom low poly model ,the thing is it is not receiving shadows. Unity's default plane do receive the shadow but not my low poly plane. Here is image that demonstrate more, 

I know we need to add rigidbody if we are moving objects.In Unity 5 the performance of moving non rigidbody objects has been increased too. Though I have doubt over ,Do I need to add rigidbody if I am animating only UVs without moving the object? 

We are working on game where player will throw eggs at each other, I would like to know how can we implement Egg splatter effect after egg hit other player? Thanks. 

Make singletone which will have list of playerIds .When prefab gets spawned ,let script in prefab fetch Playerid from it. 

Our problem seems like rare, as I did research and none find to answer my question. The problem is, I have created prefabs ,materials on my system and then exported it to my partner's System. Now when my partner import it on his system all prefabs and materials I created showing "white" icon (not gray) When we try to drag it to scene its not working. Does anyone know answer to it? 

There is a multiplayer game and server sends to all clients a message when a shot happens, containing bullet position, bullet velocity and timestamp. By having timestamp, we can calculate the lag, let's say it's 100ms. My game uses Box2D. How can I predict the real and current bullet position by having such data? I guess velocity might also change a little bit too. 

I solved this problem differently, than answers sugested me. First of all, when player isn't clicking move left/right button and doesn't jump, I made velocity Y = 0. Next, instead of moving player in straight direction like this: 

I'm learning opengl for a few days only. Now I'm trying to use indices for my cube, but can't get it working, I don't see anything on screen. 

I'm trying to implement slopes in my game. When I walk up the slope and suddenly stop, here is what happens: 

Also, I use this rotated vector only, when player is walking downhill. I noticed, that if he is walking uphill, then on top of the slope he jumps due to the upwards rotated velocity. So when he is walking uphill, I just use a straight vector and scale it accordingly, so that he won't slow down. 

I have a static rectangle and dynamic polygon. I need to generate a random 2D point in that rectangle, but not in a polygon. This is what I mean: 

Green is where random point can be generated and red is where it can't be generated. I'm not really familiar in this thing, so I ask for an algorithm. It also must be fast and efficient, because it's going to be on mobile platform and might be generated few times a second. I could check if point is in polygon, but how do I move it away from polygon to make it still "feel random"? Thanks. P.S. polygon will always have 4 vertices. 

Is it legal to remake a videogame e.g. Team Fortress 2 theme song using 8bit style and use it in my own game? Basically, if I keep the melody exactly the same, but remake it from scratch, will I get in trouble? 

I have ~20 or more enemies and they need to follow a target and avoid to go on top of themselves. I mean follow a target and avoid to collide with each other. Area, on which they are walking, is just a rectangle plane in 2D space. What would be the most simple and efficient algorithm for this? Thanks.