It's not really possible to simply upgrade RAM or CPU. Both are one solid package soldered onto the board. Cluster computing also won't solve this - it simply does not work like you'd hope it would. Bringing more than one computer to work at the same task is complex to say the least and the emulation software you run your games with can't profit from the distributed ressources. The RPi computing clusters you saw on YouTube where probably Beowulf clusters. Creating these with RPis is not very effective, but it's possible to teach people how computing clusters work, what you can do with them and where limitations are. 

Depending on your init system, the command may vary. On a Raspbian with systemd you can switch off the system with: 

I would like to do some simulation of the Raspberry's GPIO pins, e.g. for automated testing and developing the scripts on another host that is not the RPi. Are there any existing tools/scripts(preferably in Python) available for that task? 

The output of the GPIO is probably too low. You should use an optocoupler and some external power source to drive the PWM on the fan. 

If you already have a Python backend, I would recommend, for simplicities sake, stick with Python for the frontend so you can use the already existing codebase. There are so many Python Web-Frameworks out there and it's pretty all about how you like to do things. There are small frameworks like Flask, that are simplistic and minimalistic, which means you might need to do a little bit more but your code can be fast and you know what it does, and there are full-fledged all-in-one frameworks like Django that help you with pretty much anything you could imagine. 

I've built up a little stereo speaker system with USB-powered speakers(just powerd by USB, sound still comes from the 3.5mm jack) and the RPi 3. When I use the speakers on a seperate outlet everything works just fine, but when I connect them to the RPi3's USB, I get a constant low frequency hum from the speakers. I've seen the same problem when using the same external battery pack for the RPi3 and the loud speakers. What is this noise? From other sound equipment I'm used to the mains hum when something is not built properly, but I'm not sure how the RPi could create this noise when the connected parts are both DC powered..!? Is this an electrical/engineering problem of the RPi? And more importantly, is there a way to get around this? 

Try to optimize the webpage as much as possible. If you animate that graph, make sure the JavaScript used is not a big library but instead a clean, small script that uses RAM and CPU as efficiently as possible. You will find plenty of good advise on how to achieve this searching in your favorit search engine. Of course another Computer with better specs would be the easier choice. The Raspberry Pi is performing pretty slow compared to other computers and depending on how much time you can spend on optimizing your page, it might be worth buying something like a CubieTruck. 

Try to measure, what is really needed by the page. Animated charts tend to use CPU/GPU(depending on what kind of chart, how it is implemented and what kind of acceleration the browser supports), but the Script powering the chart could use a lot of RAM, in which case the performance would drop because of the low-memory situation, not the CPU. I set up a kios-mode website like this once and one problem was RAM. The easiest solution, though not the prettiest, was to reload the whole browser or the browser tab so the leaked memory the JS engine produced was freed and could be reused. 

PC-compatible hard drives are subdivided into 512-byte sectors which may be independently written any number of times in arbitrary sequence. The flash memory used by most SD cards, thumb drives, and similar devices is not. Although one can get non-volatile memory chips which are organized in such a fashion, the on-chip circuitry required to handle page writes in arbitrary sequence is more complicated (and thus larger and more expensive) than would be required if write sequences were more restricted. Typically, a NAND flash chip will be divided into pages of 528 bytes (512+16) each, and those pages will be grouped into blocks which range from 16 blocks each (on e.g. an ancient 2MB chip) to thousands of blocks each (on a multi-gig chip). Each block will generally have two associated restrictions: 

USB to UART bridges are cheap and readily available, but have really lousy timing characteristics. Newark sells an "Embedded Pi" board which has an STM32F ARM processor that you can write bare-metal code on. That chip has three UARTs on it, and I think they can go pretty fast; if you were to use one to communicate with the Raspberry Pi that would leave two available for other purposes. Disclaimer: I've bought one of these boards, but have as yet simply used the Raspberry Pi itself to handle by I/O needs directly. If you want lots of slower UARTs, the STM32F on the Embedded Pi board could probably handle a fair number, especially if you're willing to write some Arm assembly language. If there are two groups of 16 I/O pins available on a single board it might be possible to have 16 simultaneous software UARTs all working at once at a pretty decent baud rate (have a periodic interrupt at 3x or 5x the baud rate which stores 16-bit latched values from the receive port to a buffer, and outputs 16-bit precomputed values from a buffer to the transmit port; if you do this, then provided the average servicing time for the software UARTs isn't too great, it won't matter if there is an occasional worst-case hit (e.g. all sixteen ports receiving a byte simultaneously). This approach can actually work out remarkably efficiently for receiving, since the "common case" code doesn't even have to look at individual UARTs. Suppose that you're sampling data at 5x, and the last 47 bytes of the buffer are duplicated immediately preceding it. Assuming data is written to the buffer in ascending order, you can then check whether any byte has been fully received on any of the 16 channels by simply saying: 

While it would theoretically possible to have each sector on disk mapped to a fixed page of memory, and have a sector-write request read into a buffer the entire block containing that page, update that sector in the buffer, and then erase the entire block and rewrite it from the buffer, the result would be a horrendously slow "disk" that would be worn out within a few minutes of heavy use. Much better performance and reliability may be obtained if each write request causes the controller to select a blank page and write out the appropriate data along with the sector number and some sort of sequence count (each page of flash has room for 16 bytes of housekeeping information in addition to 512 bytes of data). Each time a sector is written, the page which holds its previous contents will become "garbage"; periodically the system will identify blocks which contain largely "garbage" pages, move all of the data contained in their non-garbage pages to blank pages (making the pages from which the data was copied effectively redundant and thus "garbage"), and then erase the blocks once they contain nothing but garbage. If all of this sounds complicated, that's because it is. On a small drive, it may be practical to, on power up, examine the "tags" associated with every sector and build a table in RAM that maps all the logical sectors to physical sectors, but on a 32GB drive (64 million sectors), even if one had 256 megs of RAM with which to hold such a table and could populate a million entries per second, populating the table after the drive powered up would take six seconds. Larger drives must thus use other approaches to keep track of their bookkeeping data. In many cases, a controller may keep an up-to-date table in memory and an almost-up-to-date table in flash along with a list of blocks that may be written without updating the latter table (if the flash gets unexpectedly powered down, it will load not-quite-up-to-date table from flash and update it with information from the blocks that were written later). If a controller doesn't have enough RAM to hold the entire map at once, it may sometimes have to write parts of it out to flash and load other parts. If this doesn't happen often, it's no big deal. On the other hand, it's possible for a sufficiently-"random" pattern of disk accesses to result in a lot of extra page-table-flush operations. Even if a controller is capable of reading and writing data quickly, page-table thrashing may slow it down by an order of magnitude. 

So I think this is a bit tricky, but just to be clear, it sounds like you already have a working Raspberry Pi and an image of Raspbian on an SD card. You have an image of some software that you want Raspbian to utilize and mount as a readable drive. Looking at the site that you sent, there is a readme text file that you probably should also use and leverage for this. It doesn't mention anything about needing to download some separate software and installing it that way. SO the image you have I think is the standard Raspbian Jessie image with some references to this project, possibly a slightly custom distro for your purposes. $URL$ If you have that same file that is mentioned at the top as an image, I would go ahead and put that on a SD Card as you would with the Raspbian distro per the instructions on the RapsberryPi.org website. Then this SD card will replace the current one you probably have. You may have some other software or other configurations on the original SD card or only have 1 SD card, so it might be wise to try to back up that data, and then possibly overwrite that SD card with the new image and follow the instructions in the ReadMe file / link above. However, if you still have an image file that you need mounted and need to read from to install some software on it, I think the following steps might help. The first thing is you need to run fdisk to find some general info of the image. fdisk -l /path/to/image Then you need to run the mount command based on the size of that image mount -o loop,offset=65536 NewStuff.img /mnt/tmp This should give you a mounted image of what you are looking for. 

I was able to get good version of the download from the RaspberryPi.org site finally. Update on other parts of the issue...I have been trying this since Tuesday (about 5 days on and off over the weekend and holiday). The version without Pixel, the Noobs downloads, all for the Torrent and Zip version were experiencing the same issues in general. The torrent using BitTorrent would also time-out and give an error. The checksum helped identify that there was an error and that the supposedly complete file was bad, but this was kinda apparent when I would try to install the system. Overall a good tip in general, thank you Steve Robillard. In general, had to make sure that auto-open downloads was not turned on for Chrome. For other people curious. The ZIP file is about 1.48 GB downloaded and an uncompressed IMG file is about 4.25 GB. This is of the current available download from the Raspberry Pi site for Raspbian Jessie w/ Pixel (file updated date is 9/23/2016). Patience was the #1 thing overall. I am not sure if it was the server traffic, the server itself or something on my end (though I was able to download a bunch of other things easily and quickly). It took about 70 minutes, and I had to make sure not much else was going on my computer (its a brand new HP ZBook, so it also wasn't the computer itself), especially downloads or other similar requests. 

I had/have Raspbian and used the LXDE desktop environment. Many posts will commands to enter in and not use the GUI. I took a quickie online video crash course on using linux and being an admin. They covered something about aliasing commands in general, which I think is really helpful. Like aliasing the ls -l command as ll or ls -a command as la. For using the raspberry pi and the commands line, I know many of these may depend on what you are intending to do with the Pi. But what are some good commands to alias that probably could be used for all projects? (ie - "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade" being aliased as "upgrade" or something like that). I am not worried or concerned about what the aliased phrase will be as everyone will have a preference I am sure. But based on some common commands, what should be aliased?