I need to buy an adapter from this port to VGA. Can someone tell me what is the name for it? PS. Following the discussion below, here's the picture of the actual port on the Dell XPS 8700 tower itself: 

For the purpose of testing my own script that reports CPU usage I'm looking for a program to put CPU under a certain workload, for instance: 10%, 20%, etc. up to 100%. Is there a program that can do this? PS. Note that I'm not looking to do a 100% stress test only. I'll need to be able to specify the percent value myself. 

Can I hide the links circled in red? The reason I don't need them there is because now I have to constantly scroll down to get to the files and folders that I actually need. (And if I fold them up with that little arrow, they come right out after a while.) It just wastes time! 

aaaaargghhhh To add insult to injury, the Adobe CC installer doesn't do anything when I instruct it to install Photoshop CC 2014. Update I fixed the Adobe CC installation issue by deleting my CC directory. 

Today I was contacted by GlobalSign with a much better explanation, which I think answers this question: 

I tried to automate this by putting the commands inside a script (the EFI equivalent of DOS' ). My script is this: 

It is worth pointing out that WFP is a kernel-mode API - which means it will be harder to program against, and that if a WFP implementation has a bug and crashes then it has the potential to cause a BUGCHECK (Blue Screen of Death), so it's possible that developers might prefer to use a HTTP proxy instead of a WFP because it's easier and less likely to result in a poor user-experience. This is documented here: $URL$ 

Say, for 32-bit OS, we say that the largest available integer that the CPU can handle natively is 4,294,967,295, which in "human language" is 4 Gigabytes. So for a 64-bit CPU, such number is 18,446,744,073,709,551,615, but how would you call it? A gazillion? 

This is pretty stupid to tie in updates for the OS to the updates for the security software (when the former happens once a month and the latter one -- once a day.) But, we're dealing with Microsoft ... I couldn't seem to find an easy way to make Windows Defender auto-update itself on my Windows 8.1, so I came up with this solution: 

Go to Control Panel -> (Switch to classic view) -> Administrative Tools -> Task Scheduler. Set up a recurring daily task to run the following command (with double-quotes): 

I'm using a computer, a Dell OptiPlex 9010, which comes with UEFI firmware, but does not support booting from PCI-Express NVMe devices. I've worked around this by using DUET to create an EFI boot partition on a USB stick, which has an NVMe driver which it loads, and then executes my OS's EFI boot program. The commands to do this are currently entered manually. Here is the process: 

Ugh. Apparently this is "by design". Even though Photoshop Preferences retains the Transparency Grid options page, the feature is permanently disabled in the main document view and layer thumbnails, see here: $URL$ Adobe: 

I'm running Photoshop CC 2015 on Mac OS X 10.11. Since upgrading to Photoshop CC 2015 () when I create a new layer it's all white, when I select pixels and press the Delete key the pixels remain white - I'm unable to get transparent pixels. The layer is a "normal" layer, not a Background layer. I note this happens even when File > New > Background Contents: is explicitly set to Transparent. Under Preferences > Transparency I have the default settings of Medium Grid Size and Light Grid Colors. How do I get transparent pixels back? UPDATE: I'm having the same issue as described here: $URL$ 

I know that one can use Windows taskkill utility to "kill" a non-responsive process. But what happens if I call it on a process that is running and has no issues -- will taskkill try to quit it normally first? PS. The reason I'm asking is because I want to use taskkill from a script to close one program, but I won't use it if it "forcefully" terminates the program's process without first letting it quit "gracefully." 

I'm setting up Two-Factor Authentication for our small office that will be used to log in to the corporate web site. The TFA is used via the Google Authenticator app that works great, except for a situation when a person doesn't own a smartphone. So I was curious, can we buy a stand-alone hardware device (i.e. dongle) that could work as a Google Authenticator app? 

I want to get the actual Date and Currency values from this table into a format that Excel understands (note that my computer is set to "English (United Kingdom)" and I custom-set my Windows Short Date format to ) and my default Excel currency is £ GBP. I create a new column in Excel, , and set the cells to and a Currency column set to . However for both columns, D and E, Excel gives me the error (because it won't parse as a date as it expects , nor as it expects - so I need to get it to ignore both the initial currency symbol and the trailing 3-character name ) I don't want to have to write an ugly string-parsing function in VBA (or worse, Excel formula syntax) to convert into or into , but is there any other way? 

I just got my new Dell tower and it came with this cable. On one end it had a DVI port and on the other end it had this connector with D and two plus signs: 

And then you can either unlock it, delete it, or react some other way (if it's a malware.) IMHO, this should've been built into Window from the get-go. PS. My example above is kinda silly since I simply ran the calculator, so obviously its own process is locked by itself. In real example you'd call it on an actual locked file. 

Your file might be also locked by some other running process (like an antivirus software, or even a malware.) I personally install this small software that will let me see what's holding a lock on the file: LockHunter. Then when you install it, you can right-click any file and select "What is locking this file?" 

I have a Synology NAS at home, which has a web-based user-interface which I expose to the public Internet. Inside my LAN my NAS has the hostname and on the public Internet I have the domain name pointing to my home router (which then forwards port 7000 to my NAS' HTTPS server on port 443). My NAS comes with a self-signed certificate which isn't really fit for purpose, I would like to install an SNI certificate that supports both the hostnames in addition to - however all of the major CAs perform some form of domain-validation (as they should!) but they can't verify my domain name so they wouldn't issue that certificate. I don't want to issue my own certificate as, for expediency in use, I would like browsers to trust the certificate. 

I personally set it to run at 9 AM daily, but you can pick your own time. PS. I know, Microsoft Task Scheduler is an that needs a long tutorial of its own, but the good thing is that you have to deal with it only once. 

I have a tablet that runs Windows 8 Pro. Microsoft came up with a new power mode that they call Connected Standby, in which evidently all non-Metro apps are suspended when the tablet is put in a lower power mode (that is most of the time for a portable device.) The issue with this is that none of my desktop apps can wake it on schedule (including Microsoft's own Task Scheduler.) So my question is, how can you disable Connected Standby? 

An alternative option is to cut the text into the clipboard, paste it into a plain-text TextEdit window, then paste it back. 

This isn't a direct answer, but my force-of-habit is to open the first Computer window, then navigate to the desktop folder, then open another Computer window, switch back to the first window and navigate back to the Computer view via the tree-view. But WinKey+E, as suggested by the others, sounds much better! 

I want to get the last value which in the table which has a value in the column (i.e. the current estimate not including pending invoices). I found this formula to get the last value in a column (I'll confess I don't know how it works - from here: $URL$ ):