In sub.docx, select the chunk of text that you want to appear in main.docx, and then, on the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Bookmark. Make a note of the bookmark name that you enter, because you'll have to manually enter it again in step 2. In main.docx, place the cursor where you want the embedded content to appear, as usual, and then use one of these methods: 

To clear the style from an item, select the paragraph mark, and press Ctrl+Spacebar (or click Clear All in the Styles pane or Clear All Formatting on the Home tab), as usual. 

Apply Heading 1 style (20-pt Times New Roman [TNR]), and type 'Chapter :'. Before the colon, insert a SEQ field code to autogenerate a chapter number: . Insert 1 to 3 manual line breaks (Shift+Enter), depending on the line spacing for the style, and type the chapter title ('Performance Tests for the Algorithms'). Note that, in both the Navigation pane and the TOC, the number of spaces after the colon will match the number of line breaks that you insert; so ideally, you want to limit this number to 1 or 2. If all the chapter titles will fit on 1 line, you can probably get away with triple spacing for the Heading 1 style and a single line break, which is what I did. You'll now mask the top line of the Heading 1 paragraph. Position the cursor at the beginning of the paragraph, and insert a rectangle shape with white fill and a 1-1/2 pt black border, set the height to Absolute, 36 pt and the width to Relative, 100% relative to Margin. Set the text wrapping to In front of text (if it isn't already), the horizontal position to Alignment, Left relative to Margin, and the vertical position to Alignment, Top relative to Margin. Select Lock anchor. Position the cursor at the beginning of the Heading 1 paragraph, and insert a text box with no fill, no line (border), and no internal margins. Select Resize shape to fit text, and clear Wrap text in shape. Type 'Chapter' with 2 nonbreaking spaces after it. For the font, I used 30-pt bold TNR and set the line spacing to Exactly 27 pt. Select the text inside (including the nonbreaking spaces), and toy with the font's Position setting to get all the text fully visible inside the text box (I used Raised by 1.5 pt). Position the text box vertically so that the baseline of the text is aligned with the bottom of the border around the rectangle shape (I used Absolute position, 18 pt below Paragraph), and horizontally so that the left edge is 1 point to left of left page margin (I had a 72-pt left margin, so I set to Absolute position, 71 pt to right of Page). Select Lock anchor. Finally, select all the text again, and apply white paragraph shading. Do basically the same thing again for the chapter number. I used 56-pt TNR with line spacing of Exactly 46 pt, and set the font's Position to Lowered by 1.5 pt. The vertical position for the text box is 1 pt above top page margin (I had a 72-pt top margin, so I set to Absolute position, 71 pt below Page), and for the horizontal position, I just moved until it was a visually pleasing distance from the word 'Chapter' (the 2 nonbreaking spaces that you added after 'Chapter' give you some leeway here). For the number itself, you can manually type it, but I used a field code that picks up my autogenerated chapter number. If you want to do this, before you lock the anchor for the chapter number's text box, you need to insert a paragraph break after the chapter title and drag the anchor for the text box down to the new paragraph (if you don't do this, the number will appear as 0). Then insert this SEQ field code: (note that it's identical to the first one, except that it has a switch instead of an switch, because you're referencing the last-generated chapter # instead of generating a new one). 

Make paragraph marks visible if they aren't (on the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click ¶). In one of the caption paragraphs, select the title text (e.g., 'Pictorial view...x2.' in your example). On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Bookmark, and add a bookmark. Place the cursor at the end of the caption paragraph, and press Alt+Shift+O (that's the letter O, not a zero). In the dialog box, enter some dummy text (at least one character) in the Entry field, and select F in the Table identifier field. Click OK. Inside the braces ({}) for the field, the dummy text that you entered will be enclosed in quotation marks. Select the text (but not the quotation marks), and then, on the Insert tab, in the Text group, click Explore Quick Parts > Field. In the Field names list, select Seq. In the Field codes field, after , type a space, and then type . Click OK. This will pull in the auto-generated caption number. The cursor should be between the field that you just inserted and the closing quotation mark. Press Tab, since you want the figure number and title to be separated by a tab space in your Table of figures. On the Insert tab, in the Text group, click Explore Quick Parts > Field. In the Field names list, select Ref, and then, in the Bookmark name list, select the bookmark that you inserted earlier. This will pull in the figure title text that you bookmarked earlier. You should end up with something like this: 

You could also generate an answer key, since you've created a separate column for the correct answer. There are several ways to do this. For example, I generated a separate copy of the exam where an asterisk appears at the end of the correct answer. At the end of the paragraph for option A, I clicked Rules > If...Then...Else..., and specified that if the "Answer" column in my Excel workbook holds the value "A", Word should insert "*". I repeated this step for options B–D, replacing "A" with the appropriate letter. For example, here's the rule for option D: 

I'm running Word 2016 now, so I can't check; but I seem to recall that, in Word 2013 and earlier, this could happen if the table's Text wrapping property was set to Around. 

If the line disappears if you select and cut or delete the whole paragraph of text around it, my guess is that it's probably just a stray drawing object. And if you can't click it directly to select it, it may have its Wrapping style property set to Behind text. In this case, when you select the whole paragraph, the object's anchor icon should become visible, as shown here: 

Although this isn't as straightforward in Word as it is in something like Adobe FrameMaker (which has conditional text functionality), it can be done. Here are the 2 approaches that I've used (or partially used) in the past. There may be others. In both cases, I think you'll want to save your base document as a (macro-enabled) Word template, which you'll then use to generate the three final versions. A. Version-specific character styles 

Method 1: Select just column 1, and apply numbering to it. Select just column 2, and apply numbering to it. Both columns will be numbered from 1. Right-click the number of the first item in column 2, click Set Numbering Value, and set a value that's 1 more than the last value in column 1. If you add or remove rows, you'll have to reset the start number in column 2. Method 2: For a table that's, for example, 2 columns wide and 5 rows long, start by inserting a table that's 1 column wide and 10 rows long (so half as wide as you want, twice as long). Select the table, and then, on the Layout tab, click Columns > More Columns. Set the Number of columns field to 2, and set the Spacing field to 0. You'll have what appears to be a 2 × 5 table with continuous vertical numbering from one column to the other. There's possibly a code-based solution, but these are the only methods I know of to do it otherwise. Update: I should note, though it's probably an obvious point, that method 2 only really works when all the items are roughly the same length – specifically, when they are the same number of lines of text. Otherwise, the rows in each column won't line up properly. Still, if the number of lines differ for each item, I suppose you could set a single exact height for all rows in the table (at least as large as required for the longest item) to ensure alignment.