Yes, it is possible to use nginx and FastCGI to run your C binary. Here's a rough overview of the necessary steps: 

This is just a rough guide. There is certainly more to take care of. Please provide more details to get a more detailed answers. 

More to read: Running a C FastCGI script using NGINX [introduction article] Nginx + FastCGI program (C/C++) Demo and deployed to buil 

First check DNS settings so sub.example.com has A/AAAA records pointing to your proxy server's public IP. And make Apache listen with a virtual host on example.com:8082. Now we have to possible solutions. Your question did not make clear which you prefer: 

From reading your question I guess you are asking for an nginx vhost configuration example for an https upstream proxy. Here's such a configuration example: 

Option B: redirect User will open sub.example.com but then get's redirected so he sees example.com:8082 in his browser. Add an nginx vhost config with a server listening on the sub.example.com domain (I assume port 80/443?) and redirect example.com:8082: 

I am running multiple virtual hosts on a local machine running Ubuntu 14.04 and Apache2. Let's assume that the project I am trying to access has the ServerName directive set to When I try to access it in the browser with the browser is immediately redirected to and then fails to connect. I think I found a potential cause but I am not sure. When I first setup the project it contained an file with the following rewrite rules 

where the x's denote the literal external IP of the router of the local network. The result is as follows: VPS: 22/tcp open ssh LAPTOP: 22/tcp filtered ssh Just to double check if I use local hostname from the LAPTOP the port is open as it should be. Why is the port filtered when SSH'ing from the LAPTOP when using the explicit external IP? Is the outgoing request being filtered by my router? 

I guess it does have nothing to do with the settings you mentioned. Also having two locations does not make sense. I read from your comments that you've alradey removed the first one: 

If you still encounter connection problems, check port forwarding in your internet router and in the firewall on your local machine. 

Yes, take a look at your Apache config. Here is a config example for that. And if serving WordPress through a reverse proxy with https you might need to additonally take care of this. 

The server names are an important part of your nginx configuration. If you server multiple domains/sub-domains from a server with a single public IP, the directive tells nginx what server should respond to a request. If there is no matching server name, nginx will next look for a default server that, if present, act as some sort of 'catch all' server. Here's a configuration example for http -> https redirect where you can also see how to name servers correctly without getting errors. /etc/nginx/sites-available/www.example.com.vhost 

Other than memory size limits of 4GB, what is the penalty for running 32 bit applications on an OS running in 64 bit? For example. does a 32 bit application require that it's address space be allocated within the first 4 GB or does the OS and processor abstract this away from the application? There has been a lot of push for 64 bit applications in the software community where I don't always foresee the applications requiring such a large amount of memory (e.g, Firefox), so I'm just curious of the benefits and pitfalls of running 32 bit applications on a 64 bit platform. 

I just installed IE 8 and I am now unable to authenticate with my SharePoint 2007 site using Integrated Authentication. I have no problems, however, connecting with Firefox using the exact same user account. Thinking my problem might be related to IE 8 permissions, I added the site to the list of intranet sites. After this did not resolve the problem, I also reconfigured the security level to low for the intranet zone. I'm still unable to authenticate. Interestingly enough, I'm able to connect to the Central Admin site using the same browser. Furthermore, as I previously mentioned, I have no problem connecting using Firefox. Both Central Admin and my development site are configured for Integrated Windows Authentication in IIS. I've gone through the advanced settings in IE one-by-one and I haven't been able to figure out what's preventing me from authenticating with my SharePoint site using IE 8. I thank you in advance for any information. 

Activate timing variabels for nginx logging so you might get more info out of your log files. See Using NGINX Logging for Application Performance Monitoring. Check nginx logs on both reverse proxy and application server. If problems get worse under higher load you can simluate load unsing the tool. For example to send 3000 requests with 100 concurrent requests use: 

In your example you have set a rate of 10 requests per second (10r/s), a burst size of 3000 a zone 'bursted' with a size of 10 megabyte. And this rate limit applies as separate count for each defined server. In other words, your server accepts and processes one request every 0.1 second and can queue up to 3000 exceeding requests, that are then being processed at the defined rate: one every 0.1 second. And your burst zone can store about 160.000 IP adresses. That means if 3011 reques arrive within one second, nginx processes the first 10 requests immediately, puts another 3000 requests in the queue and the 3011th request will be rejected with a 503 status code. The queue will then be processed at the defined rate of one request every 0.1 second. As long as no new requests arrive the queue will get shorter and new requests can be added to the queue again. But while the queue already holds 3000 requests every additional request will be rejected with a 503 status code. This behaviour linear processing of the burst queue might make your site appear slow. To prevent that you can add the parameter to . This will make all requests from your burst queue being processed immediately while marking the slots in the queue as 'taken' and then 'freeing' slot by slot at the defined rate again, so the defined rate limit is met over time. btw: You can change the status code for rejected requests from 503 to 444 by adding to your config block. For more details see: 

This might seem like a problem that should have been covered millions of times but I am running into issues that after days of scouring the net, I still can fix. I have a remote server that I want to backup in its entirety. I am running rsync from a local machine with a user seb that has access to the server over ssh with a public rsa key. The remote has two users, seb and git each with its own folder. User seb is sudoer on the remote. The command that I have been running from the localhost 

To describe the situation, I need to define three machines. On the local network I have a machine (LAPTOP) and a machine (SERVER) connected over WAN and LAN to the router, respectively. The third machine is an external vps (VPS). I am trying to SSH into the SERVER from the LAPTOP using an explicit IP address. To accomplish this, I set up openssh servers (all machines are running Ubuntu) listening to port 22. On the router I gave a reserved IP address to SERVER and added a port forwarding rule for incoming port 22 to port 22 of the SERVER. What is working: - SSH from VPS to SERVER - SSH from LAPTOP to SERVER using local hostname internal to local network What is not working: - SSH from LAPTOP to SERVER using explicit IP address. To try and debug I ran nmap to see if the port is being filtered. I ran the following command on both the VPS and the LAPTOP 

The two timeouts from your config: The will make your server wait up to 10 seconds for a client body to be sent after a request. If no body is sent from the client within this time, the server will close the connection with a 408 status code. The will make your server close any connection to a client that is still open after 30 seconds. But according to my tests, the time a request is waiting in the burst queue does not count for the keepalive_timeout. 

Option A: proxy_pass User should see sub.example.com in his browser while in the background the page is fetched from the Apache from that special port. Add an nginx vhost config with a server listening on the sub.example.com domain (I assume port 80/443?) and a location section to pass traffic to example.com:8082: 

The passive mode connection can't be established. There is most likely an issue with the tcp traffic not getting sent/received over passive mode ports between your ftp client and the ftp server.