Yes. The yellow line as many switches, which, as related to the packages between the two hosts, do not have IP addresses. Modern switches can obviously have IP address of their own for their own configuration (i.e., if they offer a management web GUI). But simple household switches, even if they are rather intelligent (i.e. if they do not broadcast any and all ethernet packages on all ports, like they did in the stone age of networking), need to have no IP address at all. Remark regarding comments: this is equivalent to saying that all the switches between those hosts are part of one subnet (i.e., one IP netmask). This is, admittedly, to some extent an assumption, as these days there can be very complicated switches, and some people may even call routers switches. But still; per default I would assume that a chart labeled with switches contains switches. They may (in fact, they most certainly will) look at the IP address to make the decision on which port to send a package. But they do not introduce new IP addresses as part of the path the packet takes. 

I like the excellent wikipedia page on TCP. It clearly shows what happens with the port number. It, by chance, also contains a helpful chapter on ressource usage: 

The PC receives the packet and does not see anything about the NAT procedure. The packet looks just like if 198.51.100.20 had sent it, as if the NAT router was not there at all. 

198.51.100.20 eventually receives the packet, notices that it is a SYN ("establish new connection") and sends a SYN-ACK message back to the sender. From its point of view, this is the IP address 203.0.113.10, with the TCP destination port of 12345. The router receives this packet on its WAN interface. The WAN interface has been configured to resolve NATted addresses like this. The router then... 

As far as I am concerned, the most common SFP problems are Poor performance, No connectivity and Corrupted software. For the first one, the possible cause of this problem include that cabling distance is exceeded or port statistics show excessive frame check sequence (FCS), late-collision, or alignment errors. Resolution: Reduce the cable length to within the recommended distances. See your SFP module documentation for cabling guidelines. For the comnectivity issue, maybe you have used the incorrect ot bad cable, or STP (Shielded Twisted Pair) checking for possible loops. Resolution: Verify the pinouts are correct for the proper application of cables. Replace the cable with a tested good cable. Wait 30 seconds for the port LED to turn green. For the third issue—corrupted software, this include three situation including the port is placed in error-disabled state after SFP is inserted, device does not recognize the SFP module, and excessive errors found in port statistics. Resolution: Remove the SFP module from the switch and replace it with a Cisco-approved module. Use the irrdisable recovery cause GBIC-invalid global configuration command to verify the port status, and enter a time interval to recover from the error-disable state. The best advice is to use the Cisco original SFP or 100% Cisco compatible SFP (If you decide to use a third-party SFP, please ensure that your supplier is assured) that is adapted to the switch. Hope this might help you! 

According to my own experience, it is a laughably misleading opinion. In fact, it will hurt the latency since the longer distance, but not bandwidth. Supposing you are comparing the internet speed of using the 10m fiber and 20m fiber, you will find that electrical signals travel through an ethernet cable at the speed of light, or 299,792,458 meters per second. That means that it takes about 0.00000003 seconds for the signal to travel through your 10m cable, and 0.00000006 seconds to travel through your 20m cable. You cannot notice the difference here. Not mention if you compare to many miles to whatever server you are accessing. However, longer distance transmission indeed have signal loss and noise issue, which might have an impact on the internet speed. 

We've been using the LTM and ZebOS for some time now. Time and again we've run into OSPF bugs, and an upgrade usually resolved them. ZebOS's BGP has been relatively stable in that regard. We're planning on extending our site (that will have its own DC), and need a (carrier-grade) router that'll potentially have a 100G pipe to the internet (and 10/40G connections internally). Would a Viprion 4800 chassis be a terrible choice for a router? We'd like something that is MPLS L3/L2VPN capable, which F5 doesn't support yet. On the other hand, there could be load balancing requirements in the future, in which case, we'd have to drop an F5 behind an upstream Cisco/Juniper router. By having F5 as THE router for that site, we do away with SNAT (since it'll be inline for all the traffic), and take advantage of its ADC capabilities. Amongst other things that concern me, since I haven't come across any vendor documentation, is whether F5 can hold the internet routing table (more than half a million routes) in its forwarding table, and if we're taking a performance hit by using a wildcard forwarding virtual server instead of hardware forwarding on a router. Would appreciate any inputs on whether F5 should/shouldn't be a choice, or if someone in here is using F5s as backbone routers. TIA! 

I realize the F5 community might be the right place for this question, but this concerns routing design as opposed to an ADC design. We are planning to use F5's CGNAT module for NAT'ing our campus traffic. These will be two devices in an inter-site geo-redundant configuration. The F5's are not inline with our PE routers and are more like in a router-on-a-stick setup. We have a BGP/MPLS IP VPN backbone and would like to utilize that by attracting traffic from (say) VRF-A to NAT-1 device and VRF-B to NAT-2 device. F5's routing module ZebOS has no MPLS capabilities, instead they use something similar called Route Domains ($URL$ using route-domain ids to seperate VRFs as opposed to route-distinguishers in MPLS VPNs. I'd would like to know if the following is possible: Assuming we have two VRFs (VRF-A and VRF-B) in our backbone, create two route domains (RD-A and RD-B) on each F5. Advertise a default from each route domain for the corresponding VRF on the PE router. Configure BGP local-pref for the default route higher for VRF-A that VRF-B on one PE router and the opposite on the other PE, and advertise the modified defaults across the rest of the backbone. I believe this way we can attract traffic for one VRF to a particular NAT device and the other VRF to the other NAT device. The question is how do we associate route domains on F5 to the VRFs on our PE routers, so that the default from one route domain ends up only in one of the VRFs. Is this something that can be done on the F5 or needs to be done on the PE routers, or something that will happen automatically as a part of the MPLS backbone when the defaults are advertised from the F5. Would really appreciate any inputs on the above or other design recommendations. TIA ! 

Can one fiber be used to transmit and receive signals? Yes, one fiber can be used to transmit and receive signals. Have you heard of the WDM technology? This technology can multiplexe a number of optical carrier signals onto a single optical fiber by using different wavelengths of laser light. There are two common types of the WDM technology—CWDM and DWDM. Let's take CWDM as an example, a typical 8-channel CWDM system offers 8 times the amount of bandwidth that can be achieved using a SONET/SDH system, for a given transmission line speed and using the same optical fibers. For more, please have a look at this blog. For you own network, you can use the CWDM/DWDM optical transceivers, or BiDi transceiver. 

Since you have so many questions, I will explain the first one in details. Basically, you should understand that routers have two main functions: Forwarding pkt to destination (IP address) Running routing protocol A router refers to a device that generally performs its operations by software. While the main role of a switch is to transfer packet as fast as possible based on IP address, especially for the layer 3 switch. A Layer 3 switch, does it per hardware. It's usually and depending on the environment that you are. There are carrier grade routers that route packets using hardware. But, routers provides features that are considered 'premium' in switches such as NAT, Firewall, BGP, VPN, MPLS, VPLS,... These things are really difficult to implement in hardware and that's why the carrier grade routers that implement these protocols are so expensive. To sum up, the case of use of a Switch and a router are different, although they are the same at a theoretical point of view.