yeah you can run QBASIC in a cmd prompt. Download it. Then just open the file with the program in it and press F5 to run or choose Run from the menu. i've downloaded QBASIC 4.5 before, for windows xp. I just tried 4.5 and it's fine, and there's a version 7.1 too $URL$ 

Now open it in Chrome, do CTRL-SHIFT-I right click the opening tag or closing tag, and click "Edit as HTML" and you can conveniently edit the file and paste Hebrew into it, and the webpage updates itself. You can then copy/paste from the webpage. Any Hebrew you write or paste in, within the tags, will come out plain(not big/bold). Second thing to do: Choose keep source formatting Here are two webpages, if you open them in chrome and copy from them, then you can paste into ms word, and it keeps the formatting. But be sure to choose "keep source formatting". You don't need to save these webpages you can just try copying the text below תורה נביאים וכתובים ^^ try copy/pasting that into ms word, following the instructions in this post. But these are examples of very simple webpages that work to demonstrate it too. yaya.htm Note the meta tag with charset. Save this in notepad, as ASCII, that will save it as 1252 or as 8859-1(the only ascii notepad knows is iso 8859-1 or windows 1252, notepad doesn't know 1255). Chrome will read this in 1255(hebrew). And note the extra stuff in the HTML tag. 

Problem may be the PATH environment variable isn't pointing to where there is a java.exe Also when you set an environment variable to point to a directory it doesn't scan all subdirectories. So don't confuse installing java.exe to c:\program files\java and installing it to c:\program files\java\jdk1.7.0_06. And if it says it searched a location don't assume it searched all subdirectories of it. 

You have more URLs than you want there, for the second album, that command gives 97 and you only want the ones with _72_p in the URL So | grep -E "72_p" so you get a list of just the photos you want. 

Though sometimes it does load. I haven't had it fail with wget yet though I guess that's just chance. What might be the cause.. Maybe the server is under a huge workload? I'd be interested if there is anything I can do my end to ensure the link loads though I guess it's an issue their end, and there's nothing I can do.. in which case i'd still be interested in what might cause that. 

profoundly unlikely. it takes a lot of imagination to imagine how. Like maybe if one of the hardware devices was online like, with an IP and MAC address. but even then it's behind a NAT Router and not initiating any connections. people are posting about hardware problems they have all the time. it's no risk. if you were developing a nuclear weapon, or you had a robot at home, perhaps not accessible on the internet, but there was a risk somebody malicious and highly technical might gain access directly, then you wouldn't want to share info online. because if they knew all about it then they may be able to do something to quickly install some controlling software that they'd been writing for a while to control it. So if they knew the hardware info of it, they could write something to make it kill you in the night. But that's a risk if they even see your robot twice. Once to see what model it is, and once to install the malicious software. They'd need direct access to it though, unless the robot likes browsing the internet. 

I have a laptop with its main screen(A) and a connected one(B). Sometimes the mouse is on one screen(B) and I want it on another screen(A), but i'm just looking at the one screen(A) where the mouse isn't. I could drag a lot and look for it seeing for it to appear on A, or if B is on I can turn my head to B to see the cursor location on it(B)..so I can see when it'll get to A as I move it, But it'd be easier if I could just with a keyboard shortcut, get the mouse cursor in the middle of my laptop screen(A). So a key to move the cursor from one screen to the other screen to a place i'd know where it is like the center. Even a mouse movement that does it, so long as whatever the move or key is works wherever the mouse is, would be ok. Is there a way? 

use -L to go with the redirect (as says the page has been moved), and it has been mentioned that when doing it via IP the Host header doesn't get filled out. Well then, how about specifying the host header. curl -L -H "Host: www.google.com" 173.194.34.115/doodles 

I have included some output from processor monitor(I understand that has replaced regmon), though i've no idea what registry areas of folder areas it is accessing that might trigger that (if it even would) $URL$ I tried writing a c sharp program to write to an area where you have to be administrative (making a file c:\program files\abc.aaa), $URL$ but I notice that didn't trigger a UAC, that just made an unauthorizedaccess exception. I also just tried running a 32bit exe that had setup in the filename, and it didn't trigger it 

I've used -b 1M, this might be quite important, because the default is 512, and that would or could take ages. dd had the same issue.. It's possible that you could do 4M maybe and 4M may be better, but the major difference is specifying 1M vs the default of 512 bytes. I'm pretty sure i've done the default with dd of 512 bytes and it took ages.. and perhaps similarly with ddrescue. So do -b 1M at least. Regarding -d I haven't really experimented with and without it.. it's to do with accessing the disk more directly. -f is the same as --force, and is or might be only necessary when writing to a disk, so not used or not necessary when going from disk to file. Maybe it's a safety feature so maybe ddrescue won't let you write from file to disk unless you put in -f/--force. The from goes first, and then the to second so you shouldn't mix them up. But do double check. And notice i've specified a log file. Obviously it almost goes without saying that you can also check the manual for ddrescue $URL$ 

Note- there was one time I managed somehow to change it to a VBS icon(though I can't even manage that now), but I want to change it to the icon of any EXE like calc.exe I am able to right click the taskbar, choose toolbars...new toolbar...and I can change the icon of a particular shortcut, but when I drag it , the icon doesn't stay for the taskbar. 

have you tried HPUSBFW.EXE (HP USB disk format storage tool) try FAT16(which it calls FAT I think), FAT32, NTFS I see it available here $URL$ a slightly newer version is 2MB as oppose to 440KB. Or, much newer versions of the HP thing. which they call HP drive key boot utility about 44MB! FAT16 is limited to 2GB, so see how that goes.. try FAT32 , and try NTFS.. I haven't tried it in a long while.. 

I was using XP Home, i'm not sure if this is particular to it or this individual one.. I got an icon and probably a message like this 

Then hitting del then I end up with 1. and I can't delete it. Really trying to explain the things that happen when I try to my wrong attempts at deleting and evading them, how they reappear, or appear elsewhere, or move or don't move.. explaining that isn't that feasible, and hopefully isn't necessary. There should just be some way to delete the things. I notice the cursor changes to up and down arrows when it hovers over them.. that may help identify what they are. I can't screenshot that though. 

You say you've changed the hard drive. If you have 2 sticks of RAM, then remove one. Try it. Remove the other. Try it See if still a problem. You say you've tried different cables. (I know IDE cables can often be unreliable maybe SATA ones are more reliable..no doubt you use SATA but still try..) As people have said. Try putting your hard drive in a different port on the motherboard. It may be one port is faulty, then you'll be a bit more sure it's a motherboard issue and have isolated it a bit. If still a problem then it makes the motherboard a big suspect. But you won't know for sure. Normally you can't go further than that. But maybe if you find a way to keep the chipset cool or if you check the temp and find a relationship between that and crashing, then you've hit the bullseye. That would be interesting. But that's a bit experimental, and you seem in a rush.. so Get the motherboard replaced.. you've probably got enough reason to. Then if the replacement will work, you'll know. 

I had one that looked like that cooling pad first pic. I haven't tried different types but I wouldn't necessarily go more expensive. I found the main use of it, is that if the laptop is on a desk, it gets hot.. my laptop does anyway. I can feel the bottom of it. So i'd take that thing and it'd cool it down pretty quick and i'd feel the difference. Usually I don't use any pad, I normally run my laptop on a wooden or glass covered desk, which helps it cool anyway, and I move it around the surface of the desk, to cool parts of it, and I put it on standby when it gets really hot. Sometimes it gets very hot particularly in summer. Now it's Autumn it's not bad. Most laptops have more cooling built in than mine though. And watch the temp of the laptop with software. always be in touch with the heat of your machine. You'd want to hope the laptop maker didn't go cheap on the fans your laptop uses.. but for this thing, the risk is not as great if the fan in the laptop pad gadget breaks. Your laptop would still work as good as it worked without it. And you can just get another one to help prolong the life. If you think your laptop is getting too hot, feel it and you'll know, then you'll benefit from this thing. I don't run it for long 'cos it makes a noise. Just enough to cool down the laptop though it gets hot again. But you could run it continuously. Sometimes it's far more efficient to use that thing than to put it on standby. And when it's very hot I like to deal with it fast and put it on the pad. 

And as I said to ramhound " there is a 1-1 relationship [between ip and mac address], try the command arp -a The only limitation is it'd only apply locally. ARP or RARP won't tell you the ip address for a MAC address on a different subnetwork. You'd need your own list for that to do the conversion if you want to go beyond the local subnetwork. But locally the command arp -a will tell you in windows" Also the OP mentioned a program $URL$ 

You see the cursor over there. Hebrew is a right to left language so the left and right arrow keys behave a bit differently as you move through it. The strange thing is that if I put the cursor where you see it there, on the far left. Then if I hit a character e.g. double quote, then I get this 

When I try to run an EXE The EXE is MFTRCRD64.exe $URL$ Click green "clone or download", then the blue "download zip" 

Any idea why "Date" isn't included, and how to include it? Also, (and less importantly, and as a very secondary issue) is there a convenient way to read the csv file? reading an email with a long body, in excel, is not convenient, I need to select all of the body from the cell and copy/paste it into notepad. 

Only thing is file1.txt has a new line in it and is not 0 bytes. You could replace that second command i.e. with then file1.txt would be really empty, 0 bytes. 

Edit your PATH There is a java.exe in c:\windows\system32 You want C:\Program Files\Java\jre6\bin BEFORE C:\Windows\system32 Because it's C:\Program Files\Java\jre6\bin that you want to run when you type java That's what I gather from your post anyway. 

You could use Ethernet Over Mains, and the router downstairs with the modem as well, and then not have any cat5 cable running up/down the stairs. You will then have a cable to any devices xbox included. 

You have horribly misspelt technical terms in your title, that is ludicrously sloppy. How are you to even search out the problem if you don't spell the terms correctly. That aside. I don't think what you've written in your question is the case. Did you get the idea from a book? if so, which? ethernet many many years ago, before Cat5 cables(which are twisted pair), people used coaxial cable and some other metal bits and bobs since coaxial in ethernet wasn't used like cat5 with one device on each end and no devices in between, you had devices hooked onto it. I would guess that you'd have printers and routers and so on, with coaxial interfaces also on the coaxial cable. Not just computers. Just like nowadays, computers routers and printers have RJ45 connectors. (of course.. when I say computers have them.. I mean the motherboard or the ethernet card in them) 

Rik makes an interesting remark, that it may be trying to write to somewhere that it isn't allowed to, where you have to be administrative. And indeed I don't get that box come up when in an administrative cmd prompt. 

I believe proxifier(for windows) and proxychains(for linux) can do it. I think i've seen it done in proxifier, there's a dialog box to add proxies, and then when you launch a program it is proxified. And for proxifier, I think you add proxies to the config file and then have to run the command proxifier then the path of the process. You may ask "hang on a minute, is that going proxy->proxy->internet or as you want proxy->internet->proxy" <-- Well.. since the proxies you are adding would be across the internet from each other, it'd have to be going proxy->internet->proxy which is as you want. 

Chrome has gone a bit slow when creating/closing tabs, and when playing/pausing youtube videos Word has when highlighting text with shift and up and down arrows I see it very much. ADDED - here is a video(showing chrome's slowness) $URL$ (the voice is the voice in the youtube video that is playng, not mine) Ultimately I restarted Windows and then it was fine, and I can't reproduce it 

In the case of USB, there are length limits of 3M for lo speed devices, 5M for high speed devices. $URL$ Beyond the USB cable length limits, you can get USB Boosters.. Each one goes a certain length(5M maybe) and is then plugged into a power source. Or you can get USB-Cat5 adaptors, it's like 2 bases. plug them in(either one or both plug into the mains, I don't recall if both) and effectively extend it really far like 30M. That's the case for USB. Ps2, I think the limit might be 5M. I have a PS2 extension thing, it involves 2 bases and plugs into the mains. I think in between it uses what looks like and probably is, a ps2 cable. KVM extenders commonly use cat5 and extend ps2 and VGA. (nowadays of course KVM Extenders would do USB) VGA cables of course don't send any power.. people often find the signal gets worse over long distance, but i've bought a really thick one that worked over very long distance, 50M. So for VGA certainly the bulk of the VGA cable makes a difference for length. So different cables and situations can differ.. I did once attach a wire to an electronic switch, the wire was long, it ended up not working 'cos it acted like a big aerial! So I think I had to get shielded cable. So sometimes each situation can seem to have its own weird solution.. but generally whatever you want to extend, ways have been devised! And solutions can be similar or the same kind of thing. But different things like usb,ps2, just naturally, have different limits.. as you can see. But these can be worked around.