Try using ProcessMonitor to achieve this. After installing it, right click on Internet Explorer in the taskbar and choose Always on top. This change is not permanent, though. It's only until the window is closed. 

It's not exactly very complicated to uninstall an app in Mac OS X. When you drag it to the Trash it really is gone, so it's uninstalled. The problem is that most apps also have preferences and other auxiliary files; they are nt deleted when you remove the app. However, there are quite a few apps that remove the files left over. One such app is AppTrap. It does it's job just as well and is free. When you move an app to the Trash, it asks you if you also want to move all it's preferences and customizations as well. Simple and effective :). Here's what it says on the Apptrap site: 

In Excel, go to Insert > Picture > From file... and type the URL of the picture you want to insert. I don't know if the picture updates itself since I've never tried it. 

Sorry, there's no such option and there's no way of changing this behavior; it's hardcoded in the screensaver. 

Found something that might work for you. Here's a link to it: $URL$ A quick description from the forum post: 

Replace 266.0 with the latest Chrome dev build (mine right now is 4.0.266.0). You can find out what the latest dev build is from the Chrome Releases blog. 

If you use Total Commander, hitting Ctrl + Page Down will show you the contents of the archive if the executable actually is an archive. It will be treated like a normal zip archive. There's also a plugin for Total Commander called InstallExplorer used to view msi files as any regular archive. 

It's right there, on the official site. Go to $URL$ choose the LGPL option and you'll see a list of available downloads. I think Qt SDK for Linux/X11 32-bit or Qt SDK for Linux/X11 64-bit will be what you want. 

A lot of stuff is done on the partition that Windows is on (think temporary files from all types of files). I once ran out of space while trying to extract a large set of files from an archive, even though I wasn't extracting to the partition Windows was on (but the unarchiver was saving some temporary files there). Also, a few programs, although installed on a different partition, copy some files to C:\Program Files\Common Files (that folder is taking up nearly 650 MB on my PC). On top of the minimum 4 GB everybody is recommending, I suggest you leave a little bit more, just in case (about 1GB should be enough); it never hurts to have a bit of breathing room :) 

Ask your friendly IT department to block all unproductive sites; also, ask them to automatically redirect you to a local intranet webpage threatening you to "Do your job, or else...". That's what they did where I work and it did the job :). For bonus points, also kindly ask them to uninstall all your browsers and leave you with only IE6; I'd rather go to the post office to get my mail than to try checking my Gmail account. 

When you install Winamp, you can choose not to install the "Now Playing" feature. My suggestion is to just reinstall Winamp and unckeck this option. 

As a temporary solution until you can get NTFS to natively work, I suggest using MacFuse and ntfs3g (I've used them in Leopard and the experience is pretty seamless). To be honest, I'm pretty sure that's what Apple uses in Snow Leopard anyway. They are free, mature, open-source projects, that are also used in various Linux distributions to enable the NTFS read/write capability. 

If you have Bluetooth on both the cellphone and the PC, you can get the files you want directly, via Bluetooth. It's not incredibly fast, but neither was the USB connection on my w810i (it's only USB 1.1). 

Here's an example of a pie-chart created with gnuplot. Also, on the same site, you can find another example, including the script used for creating the pie-chart. 

I believe the procedure is identical to the one in Vista. You can try following the suggestions from this site: $URL$ 

It's most likely a problem with iTunes. I had UI artifacts, the interface jammed up and I had flickering, just as you. This occurs on 64 bit versions of Windows. There's no real solution to this, unfortunately. 

Well, I'm afraid the behavior is hardwired into Excel. It's not something you can change. Word has a different behavior as well (try double clicking on a word with an underscore (_) in the middle in Word and in notepad and observe the difference). 

Doing a fresh install usually gives you the best performance. However, it also means wasting a lot of time reconfiguring everything and making them work like before. Upgrade and patch is the easiest way to do it, but I've sometimes had a lot of problems with this approach (especially with Firefox). The big advantage is that all the settings are kept intact (if the patcher or installer is worth anything). I've recently upgraded a Windows Vista install to Windows 7 and everything worked extremely well; all the software was in place, all the drivers were working. If I'd have to do it again, I'd go the same route. 

Try Microsoft Security Essentials. It's almost the same thing as Forefront Client Security, only it's better suited for just one client; FCS would be a bit overkill. MSE is also free. You might be interested in reading this article by Mary Jo Foley, over on ZDNet. Here's the part that you might be interested in: 

If you're not really sure about making the switch to Linux, try running a distro of Linux in a VM, such as VirtualBox; it's free and allows you to work with the OS as you would have if it were installed directly on your PC. I've done this in college, because I only needed Linux for a while; I didn't want to have multiple operation systems on my PC or to completely erase Windows. 

They get them from sites that actually sell their users mail adresses, they get them from forums, from Email accounts that have been hacked. It's not that hard, unfortunately. Maybe they found your email on a forum where you were talking about Adobe products. Or maybe they were lucky; they send billions of emails, regarding anything they can sell. They were lucky by sending you spam about something you were actually interested in. 

Having experienced the very, very slow performance of both VMware and Parallels, I'd probably go with Boot Camp. Granted, the experience isn't very seamless, you have to restart just to get into the other OS, but it offers the best performance possible. For me, speed is an important factor. I have to wait a few extra seconds for every task I do in the virtualized OS; these seconds eventually add up to a few minutes. In those minutes that I've just wasted for something (anything) to happen, I would have been able to just boot into the other OS and avoid the added frustration. 

Try booting with v pressed (verbose booting); maybe you'll spot something there. This might be a first step in diagnosing your problem. What's weird is that the performance update had nothing to do with bluetooth, it was hard drive related. You probably corrupted a file when you powered off the machine. 

The easiest and cheapest way is to just use Picasa. It has a lot of options, it works with EXIF data, has the ability to tag photos and has a pretty good search functionality (it is made by Google, so no surprise there). If you want something more powerful, you could try ACDSee. It has way more functionality, but it comes at a cost. A few more details about Picasa, from Wikipedia: 

Go to the Tools menu and select Internet Options... There, click on the Delete Cookies, Delete Files and Clear Cache buttons. That should do it. 

I've had the same problem as you on an Asus motherboard (M2N-E) with an AMD Athlon64 3000+ processor. The problem appeared every few weeks; sometimes nothing happened for more than a month. I replaced my hard-drive because it made some weird sounds and the whole "DISK BOOT FAILURE - INSERT SYSTEM DISK AND PRESS ENTER" problem went away for a while. It started up again with the new hard-drive. I think the problem is with the motherboard, but the problems are rare enough that I'm not bothered by them that much. If the problem happens often enough, could you try to borrow a motherboard from someone? You could then try to boot up a few times. If you don't get any errors, then the hard-drive is ok, it's the mobo that's broken (my money's on the mobo being guilty). 

I'm not seeing something like this so something is really strange. Maybe it's because they are formatted as "x out of y"? What happens if you just change to just "x" instead? 

I lost 1 GB just by sticking with Vista 32bit on one PC. If possible, always choose the 64bit version of the OS. A lot of apps are starting to get 64bit versions which are normally faster, the OS feels more stable and you can actually access all your RAM. 

However, it also shows how to create an equation in Word 2007 that can be read and edited in Wrod 2003. 

Are you referring to the Windows Update Catalog? That's the only one that comes to mind and offers the functionality you want. 

Try ImgBurn. You didn't mention it in your post as not working. I've been using it for about a year and I've had no problems with it. 

Compression usually has an impact on the CPU. If you compress a lot of small files, it's even more taxing. It's normal behavior, in my opinion. For instance, if you copy 1024 100kB files, it's going to take a whole lot longer than just copying one 100MB file. There's an overhead for each file; the same is true when compressing. 

Try using the video card drivers. I've used this option from the nVidia and Intel video cards settings, but they're different from one manufacturer to the other. Edit: for an nVidia card you could try NVRotate (it should come with the video card driver). If this doesn't work, just try iRotate; it's a free, very small (125KB) app that does what you need. 

The easiest way to remove a program from startup is to do it using msconfig (most apps that are run on startup are not actually started from the Startup folder). Hit WinKey + R, type , go to the startup tab and remove the program you don't need. Just don't go crazy with the tool, you might actually need some of the apps from startup; the best way is to research them a bit before removing anything.