HSTS is supported/implemented for a lot of the major internet sites, including Google, Gmail, Facebook, Twitter, Paypal. HSTS Statistics 

Are "shared physical media" the same as "multiple access media"? Why are "half-duplex point-to-point links" "shared physical media"? Yes. Because they share the physical channel with other devices. 

The problem with separate providers is that you have different external IP's. To balance a single connection over the two links your options are. 

The reason for half duplex, was due to cost, initial 10Meg ethernet shared the same coax cable only two conductors 10Base2. At the time it was not imagined that any thing as fast as 10Mbit/s could be transmitted on a unshielded cable. One port on a switch/hub could have 20 pc's connected in daisy chain, thus CDMA was used to listen for traffic, start sending, back-off for random time if someone started transmitting at the same instance and send again. This is also the reason for the length restriction and minimum packet size, as you had to be sure before the last bit was sent that someone on the other end of the same cable did not also start to transmit at the same instant. As electronics became faster and cheaper, we moved to Cat5, individual cables/ports for each pc, and then to switches, where the packet can be stored and forwarded in both directions at the same time (Full Duplex) 

If your two core switches support vss, vpc, or mlag, you could simplify the network as the two core switches will look like one switch with a LACP ether-channel to the aggregation layer switches. EDIT: This will eliminate loops to the aggregation layer as each aggregation switch will have a single ether-channel link, while still allowing VLAN's to span all aggregation switches. 

Yes, you should see it as open, if the port on the WAN side is natted to the internal network and the internal server can route back out the nat device. On a normal FW where nat is setup for internal traffic connection out through the FW the ports will not be open, only for the external device connected to. 

If your Camera is wireless, you might also consider connecting it directly to the Huawei on a different wifi channel and leave your other devices on the Zytel. 

I think this may be the confusion. When you have offices connected with routers, the traffic flows through a L3 device. Two network's on different sides of a L3 device is on different VLAN's(Physical) networks. They may have the same vlan ID but they are not the same vlan. If this was not the case every vlan in every company in the world would be the same vlan if they had the same vlan ID. 

Thus if a GW/Router has interfaces in different subnet's it needs a IP on each interface that is from that subnet, to allow it to talk to the hosts in the subnet. In your example, if the Gateway only had ip 192.168.0.1 it would not be able to talk to 171.43.22.5 directly, as 172.43.22.5 would refuse to send packets to a ip not on its subnet, and rather forward them to it's configured gw(who has to be in the 171.43.22.0/24 subnet) 

My first question has to do with the links between Core and aggregation. I could use MC-LAG or pure OSPF. With MC-LAG I can have all links on the same vlan and its very easy to have other vlans span the whole network, but on the other hand, it feels to me that ptp-links and OSPF eclb is more robust and scalable. 

Connecting and then runnig all traffic through a VPN tunnel would be the safest way to consume the public wifi, but introduces complexity and delay depending on breakout. The most pragmatic approach would be to only use SSL/TLS, the internet scale companies is working hard to make this more secure to protect there clients for snooping etc. 

Some default ttl values: $URL$ Each device can pick it's ttl up to 255 when sending a ip packet, the recommendation is 64, allowing for 64 layer 3 hops before a packet is dropped. To double check the number of hops, use traceroute. 

The Mask splits the IP into a upper and lower half (In binary format). The first half (where the mask is all ones) is the network and the second half is the host. All IP's in the same network IP/mask can talk to each other directly, if the network portion does not match the Gateway is used to router the packets. A: 1.1.1.1/24 (255.255.255.0) Network 1.1.1.0 Host 0.0.0.1 (HostRange 0.0.0.1-0.0.0.254) IpRange 1.1.1.1 - 1.1.1.254 (Excluding network and broadcast) B: 1.1.1.2/22 (255.255.252.0) Network 1.1.0.0 Host 0.0.1.2 (HostRange 0.0.0.1-0.0.3.254) IpRange 1.1.0.1 - 1.1.3.254 (Excluding network and broadcast) C: 1.1.1.3/21 (255.255.248.0) Network 1.1.0.0 Host 0.0.1.3 (HostRange 0.0.0.1-0.0.7.254) IpRange 1.1.0.1 - 1.1.7.254 (Excluding network and broadcast) The mask is a binary mask, all ones and then all zeros, total length for IPv4 is 8x4=32 bit. Answer: If you have a host1 talking to a Host2 and according to host 1, host 2 is in the same Network(IP/mask) it will send packets directly. In the provided example, although misconfiguration the Network portion of ip A, B and C matches. This would break down if i chose in the same subnets different IP's, they would not be able to ping each other with out the assistance of a L3/Router to route between the subnets. AA. 1.1.1.1/24 BB. 1.1.2.2/22 CC. 1.1.7.1/21 

Dual tunnels to external server, as you suggested, then you do per load-balancing over the two tunnels, and at the external server you are hidden(Nated or web proxy) behind a new public IP. 

Notes: Remember that the return traffic will also traverse the ACL on the interface where it enters. 

ACL's on routers are not state-full as on Firewall's. What this means is that you need rules to allow traffic in both directions. TCP connections uses a well known port on the server side and normally selects a random port for the source of the connection. 

The machines on private IP-adresses still need internet, so I want to NAT them out. But our new core switches doesn't support NAT (as far as I know) so we are setting up a NAT-router on the side. Is there some smart way in OSPF to redirect traffic from privates IPs to the nat-router? Or should I use PBR? 

Opt1: PBR - is messy, and hard to maintain, single nat device is single point of failure. Opt2: central NAT on outgoing university router Opt3: get two routers/firewalls/devices that can sit between your core switch and the University network that can do the NAT for you 

The goal with q-in-q is to take all the customer c-vlans and switch them in a single s-vlan. You configure q-in-q on the inbound interface from the customer, thus taking all his c-vlans and switching it through the internal network on s-vlan. It is not a one to one, there is multiple c-vlans all inside a s-vlan. Each client is handles in a single s-vlan. 

Problem: Branch camera vlan protected by firewall As vlan's will end at branch a new solution need to be implemented for the camera vlan, here is a couple of options 

Some of you say its a bad idea to have both public and private IPs in the same OSPF area. If this is so, what do you think we should do instead? 

A better/standard approach is to use private ip's 10/8, 172.16/12 for the host IP's, then on the upstream router do a 1 to 1 nat to the public IP, for outgoing and incoming traffic. If you then ever change ISP and get new public IP's is simple to change them in one place. 

Have a look at mtp/mpo fiber SM or MM multi-fiber ribbon cables, 12 or 14 cores in a single connector. They allow for easy movement and addition of fibers. Fluke Tester MPO Cassette MPO Cassettes MTP-fiber 

I prefer scenario 2, extend area 0 into the branch, and then stub area into branch to l3 switch for vlan routing. Making the branch router ABR. The reason is that we need high availability for the branches, with a couple of redundant links from different providers, as well as 3G, and dial-up backup. The bigger branches also have dual routers to cater for a router failure, here we do provision a area 0 link between the routers, using a vlan. Allowing Area 0 up to the edge of the branch allows for better routing decisions. We are also able to deploy links between branches that are close together, using the area 0 interface on each branch router, this would not be possible if each branch was in a different area. Dialup / DMVPN etc also causes problems if the branches routers are only in a area >1 as the central router now needs to have the template/mutipoint-gre in more than one area. Summary: I think the WAN should be in area 0, if the wan is not extremely simple/standard with just one or two links to each site. 

Connect all 6 of the pc's to the wifi ap. Going the wifi route is the most cost effective and quickest to deploy. Look for a AP that has 2.4GHz and 5GHz radios so you have more bandwidth, and connect the Server/Internet to the Ethernet ports on the AP, to reduce the wifi hop for most traffic to one. If you have to place some pc's more that 20 meters from the AP or there is a lot of walls reducing the signal think about adding more AP's connected with ethernet Cat5/Cat6 cabling to central AP, avoid wifi bridge links between AP's as it halves the bandwidth. use the same ssid en wpa2 key, selecting not overlapping channels for each AP. 

Use a web downloader that breaks a single file download into a lot of smaller download pieces. As each piece is a separate connections they could loadbalance over different links/providers. 

Your problem is that the host(rochfort) you are pinging (from chimay) does not know how to return packets. 

To route, you will have a different subnet for the VM's and the physical interface. You also need a a route on the external network that routes traffic for the internal subnet to the external IP, probably added on a router. 

With the L3 recommended option, there can be smaller public IP vlan/subnets in each area. take your public /22 and subnet with /28(64net x 14hosts) or /26(16Net x 64hosts) each, then have a vlan in each cluster for public IP machines. Also easier to filter/protect in future But maybe the best way is to just split up the network into smaller ones and route them with OSPF as needed. Agreed 

Core Switch is ON -> Open network, i would guess they run Cumulus Operating system. Just do the Nat on the L3 core switches. Match private IP's leaving for the Upstream router and nat them as required. 

Now do the port forwarding for the new Cam ip on the Huawei. Remember to consider security/access control. 

Now IPSec only protects the data, and uses the original IP header, just changing the protocol field. 

It is not possible to protect against arp spoofing on a public network if the identity of the AP can't be established and the traffic is open and not encrypted. 

I think is totally acceptable, most providers of mpls infrastructure, provide internet access to clients using VRF/MPLS to separate production and internet traffic. Just verify that the management IP of the router is only accessible through the VRF you require it to be. IOS devices will accept all VTY connections by default. However, if an access-class is used, the assumption is that connections should only arrive from the global IP instance. 

Why "multiplexing also may be used in full-duplex point-to-point communication between nodes in a switched network, which should not be considered as multiple access"? 

When ram is allocated to a VM(Guest), the VM is using it. The host does not know if the values stored in the ram is relevant or not. The OS running in a VM keeps track of Ram assigned, but it does not have to ask the Host for ram. It is easy for the host to keep track of stats for things entering or leaving the VM e.g. Network packets or Disk read's and writes. The problem with ram is that for the time slice the VM has the CPU it can read/modify/write to it's allocated ram without any visibility by the host. This is also the reason that changing the RAM dynamically is not really a option. One way around this is with a baloon driver loaded in the Guest, it can then chat with a back channel to the Host, asking for ram from the Guest where it runs, and then informing the Host it is locked and can be removed. When the user then decides to add more ram, the balloon driver informs the guest it does not need the ram it was holding. 

I think you should add the ethernet header and interframe gap. 1500 - 20b(IPv4) -20b(TCP+checksum) = 1460b DATA (and 40b Overhead) Add 40b + 14b(Ethernet) + 4b(FCS) + 12b(Interframe gap) + 8b(preamble) = 78b Overhead 78 / 1460 * 100 = 5.34% overhead 1460 / ( 1460 + 78) * 100 = 94.93% Throughput/Goodput 1,000,000,000(1Gbit) * 94.93% = 949Mbit/s(0.949Gbit) you measured 941Mbit/s that gives (949 - 941) / 949 * 100 = 0.84 % error between theoretical and actual. 

Change your Zytel routers IP to 192.168.1.2 Disable the DHCP on the Zytel and enable it on the Huawei. 

/16 to /20 4bits, 16 subnets /20 to /24 4bits, 16 subnets with 254(265) hosts each. Total = 16 x 16 x 256 = 65536 ip's or /16 to /20 4bits, 16 subnets /20 to /23 3bits, 8 subnets with 510(512) hosts each. Total = 16 x 8 x 512 = 65536 ip's 

Shared physical media: only one device on the shared media can access it at any given time, the rest has to wait. Halfduplex point to point links, uses the same physical media in both directions. It is the same frequency and point to point electromagnetic wave/channel. It is halfduplex as a radio can only transmit or receive at a given point in time. The two sides of the point to point link can not transmit at the same time they share the physical media Multiplexing: is the interleaving of multiple data streams, the resulting multiplexed stream can then be sent over a full or half duplex link. 

Only ease of use deployment, no control over router, no separation Use public ip's, (only public ip, no private ip) on hosts that need them. Statical configured. Use private 172.x private IP's on the rest of the hosts. The routing between public and private can then be done by a L3 switch. Ask the provider that manages the router to only nat/hide the private IP's when they leave for the internet, but let the public ip's straight through. 

The lowest ip is 10.1.1.80, and the highest is 10.1.1.191 (from 10.1.1.128/26) The smallest subnet (bigest mask) to cover both is 10.1.1.0/24 When you sub-dived the subnet 10.1.1.0/24, by increasing the mask to /25 you get two subnets, not one can covers all the subnets in the question. 10.1.1.0/25 (Range 10.1.1.0-127) 10.1.1.128/25 (Range 10.1.1.128-255) The ranges you provided is not continuous, and the answer 10.1.1.0/24 covers them all and the network in between and at the start and end of the ranges. 

The switch can map multiple mac-addresses to a port. Thus all the device mac's on the second switch is seen by the first switch as belonging to one port. It updates it's table when it receives any packet, as they all contain a source mac. If it had the mac on a different port before it changes it's mac address table (mac to port map). When the position of a mac changes between ports often, it is reported as a mac flap. 

The ip is configured into the application that does the connection as either a dns name(resolved to ip via dns server) or as a IP static IP. There are also auto-discovery protocols that utilise broadcasts and multi casts to advertise and find services. e.g. avahi If pc's are auto configured using DHCP, the dhcp lease includes information such as DNS server ip, GW-ip, and can even include additional auto configuration information. 

The sdn controller could route non critical/bulk traffic on longer routes that are not fully utilized. The sdn controller could send the initial couple of packets to a firewall, and once the firewall is happy/accepts the flow, the sdn controller can bypass the firewall thus removing load from the FW and allowing multi-gigabit datacenters to be fire-walled. The sdn controller can easily implement load-balancing also at high data rates by just directing different flows to different hosts, only doing the set-up of the initial flow's. Traffic can be isolated without the need for vlan's, the sdn controller can just refuse certain connections. Setup a network TAP/Sniffer easily for any port or even specific traffic by programming the network to send a duplicate stream to a network monitoring device. It allows for the development of new services and ideas all in software on the sdn controller. OpenFlow-Actions