(I'm talking about the shell Fish, esp. Fish's Fish.) For Bash/ZSH, I had with some exports, aliases and other stuff. I don't want to have a separate config for environment variables for Fish, I want to re-use my . How? In The FAQ, it is stated that I can at least import those via , however I don't really like running that for each Fish-instance. 

(And I think some others, I partly deleted them already, I don't remember exactly anymore.) Of course, maybe the most obvious reason is that some of the scripts in is messed up somehow and created them. 

Recently, I noted that some directories of my server are cluttered with files like , , , etc., i.e. always a filename of size 6 which seems to be base64 encoded. The file size is always zero. Some more properties: 

When I make a new Git commit () and it enters Vim, sometimes it happens that I make a small typo when I want to save the commit-message-file. E.g. I type instead of the usual . Vim reports an error then. Then, when I correctly save the file and quit Vim, Git says that Vim reported an error and it aborts the commit. How can I avoid that? I.e. how can I reset the Vim error state so that Git doesn't think that Vim had an error? 

While the paragraph is still selected, you should now be able to click the drawing object directly and have it become individually selected, as shown by the circles at each end: 

Copy this line, and paste it after the Heading 2 paragraph for every song. Press Ctrl+A to select all, and then press F9 to update all the fields. At the location where you want your TOC to appear, press Ctrl+F9. Inside the braces, type to build a TOC from field entries, suppress page numbers (since you've manually added them to your field entries), and preserve tab spaces inside the field entries. If you want the entries to be active links so that you can use them to jump to the info for specific songs, you can also add the switch. Press F9 to update the field and generate the TOC. Modify the paragraph style that's used for the TOC entries (presumably, TOC 1). As necessary, adjust the Tabs settings. You want one Left tab with leader 1 None just right of the left margin, and then another with leader 2 ... farther to the right. 

It should be simple because I want to develop my own solution and just use this as a base. This is intended for the case that my computer gets stolen so that I might be able to track it back (if it doesn't get completely reinstalled). 

If you install Perl somehow (and symlink , if it isn't there), it should work. In some very minimal environments, that might not be that easy. For me (on a QNAP), I had qpkg available and I could install qpkg packages via the admin webinterface. That allowed me to install ipkg, which is a common package manager which might be available for your system, too. Via ipkg, you can install Perl (). For the debootstrap script, you need to have symlinked to your Perl installation, which might be . On my system, was also missing and needed for debootstrap. Via ipkg, you can install binutils, which contains that package (just to be sure, I again symlinked that to ). Some helpful discussion (with the ipkg tips) was here. 

Thanks Gordon for the link to the Macworld forum. There is this code which might be able to do what I want: 

First off, you don't need to insert section breaks, which, as you've seen, disrupt the continuous flow of text. An easy way to achieve what you want is to define a character style that you'll use just for those page references (you can also repurpose one of the built-in styles, as long as you won't use it for anything else). If you'll be using brackets around the page references, as in your example, but you don't want the brackets to appear in the header, don't apply the character style to them; apply it just to what's inside them. Then, in the page header, insert a STYLEREF field that references that style (on the Insert tab, in the Text group, click Quick Parts > Field, select STYLEREF in the Field names list, and then select the name of the style in the Style name field). Word will then find the first bit of text on each page that's in that style, and stick it in the header for that page. 

I could also have achieved the same thing by setting the border width to, say, 1 pt and then setting Top, Bottom, Left, and Right to 5 pt. 

Each further try with doesn't change anything in that situation. While trying that, I am getting these messages in : 

It seems to work mostly for me but I am not sure what else is broken now. I did some investigation into the Subversion source and it seems that UTF8 filename support is broken very badly. They kind of ignore the fact that a filename can have different representations in UTF8. They handle all such different representations as different filenames. MacOSX might change the representation internally and this is what Subversion confuses a lot -- and cannot handle. You can see in their source that their path compare function is basically just a memcpy. I tried to fix it but I am not really sure if I did or not (and I don't want to waste much more time into it -- it seems to work now but not sure about it). Read the upstream bug report for more details and a follow-up discussion. 

Note that there was also PySide. Although that seems like it is abandoned and does not support Qt 5. You probably can install it anyway via: 

If paragraph marks aren't visible in Word, make them visible by pressing Ctrl+Shift+8. You should see that the paragraph mark (¶) at the end of list item 4 and all the following list items is blue, like this: 

As a kind of workaround, you can print just the comments, separately. If you have other tracked changes in the documents (text additions and deletions, etc.), first hide them. On the Review tab, in the Tracking group, click Show Markup, and then clear the check marks nexts to Ink, Insertions and Deletions, and Formatting, leaving only Comments selected. Then click File > Print, and under Settings, select the drop-down arrow for the first setting (it may currently be set to Print All Pages: The whole thing), and select List of Markup: Your tracked changes. Adjust other settings as you require, and then click Print. The full comments (uncollapsed) will be printed. If you also need to print the full document showing your additions and deletions, etc., you can then do that. Add the check marks that you cleared, and then reselect Print All Pages: The whole thing (or whatever your default printer setting is) to print the whole document plus markup. 

I am trying to ssh with X11 forwarding into a host where I don't have a home directory. Because of that, xauth fails and X11 doesn't seem to work. I tried to specify a home-directory in advance but I guess it doesn't export env-vars to the host. 

I just got a KVM switch box and when plugging my monitor on that box, MacOSX doesn't recognize all possible resolutions, esp. not the native resolution which is very annoying. Is there any way I can fix this? Is there any way I can force MacOSX to let me specify any possible resolution? 

How do I compile some specific package with my custom CFLAGS? Other searches suggest that I should just edit the formula by hand but I don't want to do because I want a solution that easily works in all cases. Or do they strictly not want to allow custom CFLAGS? This suggests it. Esp., in my case, I just want to pass one of , , or to CFLAGS because I want to build a library which is compatible with >=MacOSX 10.6. 

Insert a table that has as many columns and rows as you require. Make sure there's a blank paragraph between this table and table 1. In Table Properties, set the width to 100% measured in Percentage. Leave the text wrapping set at None, and add a 1 pt solid black top border (and internal borders, if you want them). Optionally reduce the height of the paragraph between tables 1 and 2. Then select the paragraph and apply white shading to it to mask the side page borders. 

In the collection document, on the Insert tab, in the Text group, don't click the Object button itself; instead, click the drop-down arrow to the right of the Object button, and then click Text from File. Select the file to insert. Don't click the Insert button itself; instead click the drop-down arrow, and then click Insert as Link. 

Since you have a well-formed data source already set up, you can also use a mail merge for this. Create a Directory style merge, link it to your Excel workbook, insert merge fields, and format the paragraphs as you like. For example, the column names in my Excel workbook are "Question," "Option A," "Option B," "Option C," and "Option D," and I want questions to be numbered and in bold, and the options to be lettered. So my merge document looked like this: