SSDs do report SMART data (although some of the SMART attributes obviously don't apply to a non-rotating drive.) Even an MLC drive should last much longer than a platter drive. Intel says you can write over 20GB of data to the X25-M every day for TEN YEARS without exceeding its write capacity. Patriot actually WARRANTIES their drives for ten years (and their drives aren't even very good!) The nice thing about SSDs as well, is that in theory once you stop being able to write, you can still read just fine...so just clone the drive and off you go again. I would not bother redirecting the caches. If you're really only using the machine for browsing, you're fine. Just make sure the machine is in AHCI mode and the partitions are properly aligned (XP is /not/ smart enough to do this on it own!) and be aware that XP doesn't natively support TRIM as well so you'd have to do it manually. (TRIM is a sort of wear leveling the controller on the drive does to prevent performance slowdown over time.) It's best to use Windows 7 with an SSD, but honestly even with XP on a light usage machine there's no worries. 

While in theory you could do this with any sort of radio with the correct software, practically speaking that's not going to exist for these. WiMax radios are designed to communicate with the broadcast towers only. (If you need to stream HD video in real-time over a distance that short, a wired network is best if at all possible.) 

To super-over-summarize, you can take that warning at face value. Whichever partition has the bootloader you want to use should be marked as active (it doesn't matter where the operating systems are, just where the bootloader is). There's never any reason to mark a different partition as active unless you want to use a bootloader from that partition. If you render your machine unbootable in this way (by, say, setting a partition with no bootloader at all as active), you'll need to boot to a LiveCD or Windows repair environment or something like that (or slave the drive to another machine) to fix it. It's an easy fix but does require an environment to do it in. 

You don't specify whether you need local connectivity as well. If you don't, the so-simple-someone-could-easily-overlook-it, 100% foolproof solution is to just unplug the network cable. 

You should check out Silent PC Review. That said, if you're really concerned about noise, consider finding a case you like and just replacing the fans in it with quieter ones. Very few cases come with decent fans, to be honest - I don't even like the ones in high end Lian Li cases for acoustics. EDIT: You can always add acoustic dampening foam, as well. 

You've selected DDR3-1600 (1600 as in MHz). This processor only has a memory clock that supports up to DDR3-1333. What the message is telling you is that your DDR3-1600 will be downclocked to DDR3-1333; essentially, you're wasting the money. Just use DDR3-1333. (Stats on memory controller from Newegg because AMD's site hates me at work for some reason.) Extra points: The stock sink probably has an integrated fan already. 

20GB? Just buy a couple of small USB thumb drives. You can get 16GB drives for US$20-30. Alternatively, you might consider buying another INTERNAL drive if you have connections free in the case for it. You can get a 320GB SATAII internal hard drive for around US$40-50 or maybe even less if you shop around. (As far as a torrent goes...who do you know that you're comfortable giving all your data to? And you're going to run your own tracker?!) 

This doesn't really fit with any other answers here or I'd just leave a comment, but in general when I hear 'new laptop' and 'can't connect to specific routers' my first thought is 'flash the firmware on the router'. I have had many cases where brand new wireless cards would send packets that confused routers with 2-3 year old firmware but the flash fixed it. Now, this probably ISN'T your issue, but it may help somebody who reads this at some point... 

The surest way is thorough mechanical destruction of the hard drive - a drill, thermite, sending it to an industrial shredder, etc. PRACTICALLY speaking, a thorough formatting with any number of disk wiping utilities will render it unreadable to anybody who isn't very knowledgeable and dedicated, but that would require another machine to slave the drive up to, or a bootable environment to do this in. 

If you're concerned about the actual dimensions, you just need the specs for the case and motherboard from the manufacturers. They generally list the form factor for the motherboard, and which the case supports. As long as they're in sync, you're good to go. Common form factors are: ATX, mini-ITX, micro-ATX, extended ATX. There are a few others but they're pretty niche. If this is a standard desktop tower-style machine the overwhelming odds are that you've currently got a standard ATX or micro-ATX motherboard. (EDIT: Note that OEM machines, like from Dell or HP, may often have proprietary mounting points or I/O plate alignment. You generally can't just throw any old motherboard in a case like that.) 

The way you describe it is confusing, but it sounds like you're trying to connect the Dell monitor via VGA, through a DVI-D adapter, through a DisplayPort adapter, to the DisplayPort connector on the card. This will not work because DVI-D is digital only. You need an active digital-to-analog converter somewhere along the line, that's what an adapter like that is intended to be used in conjunction with. I'd just buy a DisplayPort to VGA converter (which generally don't need external power beyond what the DisplayPort provides itself, which is a nice bonus). 

There are a few paid tools (I use Casper, I think Acronis does it as well, probably others) that will let you clone partitions and will downsize (and upsize) them on the fly as much as free space allows. Completely effortless and foolproof. Most freeware I'm aware of requires a two step process - resize the partition, then clone. 

You can purchase the base image from Lenovo for around $50 (call support and tell them you want to buy product recovery CDs). Alternately, are you using Service Pack 3? This machine may actually not support it due to age - try SP1 or SP2 and see if you have better luck. 

RAID should support everything AHCI does for an SSD that isn't actually in an array; no reason for concern. (On a tangential note, I've benchmarked better speeds using the msahci driver than the Intel one even on Intel drives. If you're that concerned you might check it out.) 

The primary reason for this is that adapters generally accept any (reasonable) input source, and so you can just take your charger to a country with different electrical outlets and simply swap the line cord rather than having to buy a whole new adapter. There's no particular reason it COULDN'T be integrated, but if anybody does this, it's uncommon enough that I've never seen it. It's just the way these things are generally made. EDIT: See techie007's answer for an example of what this would probably look like if you actually found one (it would be more likely than having extra cord length in both directions). 

It's a little bit of a kludge, but I don't see any reason it shouldn't work fine. Some motherboards do have the eSATA ports on a different controller which can hurt performance and/or impair your ability to boot from the drive but PROBABLY it should work. I think it's a pretty clever use of the resources you have handy. 

The power management settings let you decide how fast it powers off, but I'm not aware of any way to manually turn it off without involving an app or just waiting for it to go to sleep. (I'm not even sure what you mean by "without using any software" - you want a physical switch?) EDIT: See comments; this functionality is not native to Windows. Requires special software. 

It's possible, yes; it depends on what they have installed on the system and what level of access they have to your account. It's entirely feasible that they have something running that logs every single keystroke you make and saves it for later review. It's even possible they have monitoring software installed that will allow them to see what you're doing in real-time without your knowledge as long as you're online. (You could probably block this stuff from your home router but that would require some foreknowledge of what it is in the first place.) If you're browsing through a VPN, they can VERY easily see everything you're doing internet-wise. It's also entirely feasible that they couldn't care less, but I wouldn't risk my job over some porn. Keep your work assets for work use only. 

This generates a report that, among other things, can possibly point out some common sleep problems. (This isn't its primary purpose, but it is a potentially useful and very easy tool.) 

An overwhelming majority of the time, these issues are usually caused by a peripheral driver or a software application that doesn't properly wake up from sleep mode. Make sure all the drivers are up to date. Make sure Windows itself is completely up to date. If neither of those help, try removing or disabling unnecessary software services and devices from the machine until you find the culprit. (Unplug any USB devices, turn off the wireless radios with the master switch on the side, etc). Note that it may turn out to be something you can't live without (or it might be something that you simply can't disable so you never figure it out at all). That said, issues like this are just one of many reasons sleep mode is a bad idea unless you can't avoid it. 

The difference is simple - dedicated graphics cards typically have much faster performance, especially for 3D rendering and anything that can get a major speedup from hardware acceleration. The difference in 3D rendering speeds between an integrated and a discrete card can literally be orders of magnitude. Now, having said that, if you're only using your system for word processing and email, you'll never notice the difference. 

Assuming that you're talking about modern SATA drives, most cases take standard internal drives in their hotswap bays. There's nothing unusual about the drives, you can use existing ones. The concern however is the motherboard - hotswap support isn't always on by default. You may even have to enable it on a port-by-port basis. Don't just expect it to magically work, though. 

If you're looking for specifically hardware status (temperatures, voltages), no. Out of the box, Windows 7 has no interface to access this sort of information. Windows DOES try to record information about running processes and take a memory dump at a crash if at all possible - the easiest way to get to this info in Windows 7 is to launch the Reliability Monitor (it's buried in Control Panel somewhere, I forget actually, but you should just be able to type it into the Start Menu). 

I've used Portable Apps to great success before. Basically it lets you install portable versions of applications (and they have compatibility fixes for TONS of them) and run them directly from their launcher utility. The installer for the utility should set it up as an autorun, unless they've changed this since the last time I used it. In the event that it doesn't, this is easy enough to set up, but note that it varies from OS to OS. In particular, old fashioned autorun.inf won't work under Windows 7 anymore. There's a good bit of detail on this here and also here. To get autorun working under Windows 7 requires special firmware on the drive and/or some specialty software preinstalled on the machine. 

The search function in the Vista/7 Start Menu is pretty awesome. Just type 'Device Manager'. This works for pretty much any system config applet as long as you have the slightest idea what it's called. (Try 'hard drive' sometime.) The old-fashioned way I used in XP, and this still works, is to right-click My Computer in the Start Menu and select 'Manage', which brings up the Computer Management console which has Device Manager, Disk Manager, Event Viewer, etc, readily accessible. 

This is not necessarily a hard drive problem. At a minimum, I'd run LatencyMon to see if there's any particularly problematic driver or software utility that's obviously causing the system to sit around doing nothing waiting on a response. If you're a bit more technically savvy, you should almost certainly be able to pin down the exact culprit with XPerf (part of the Windows Performance Analysis kit), but it may be a little too involved for the shy or faint of heart.