I prefer the router configuration. But since you are using a mobile broadband connection (which I assume you are using a mobile broadband stick), I think you should check the software that comes with it. To use a VPN or proxy, you should configure each host to not access a particular website. Or you can configure a VPN to a router, so all hosts connected to it don't access that website. Even if you use browser addons or any other way, the case is the same. You can even install custom firewalls on your router, but that is not the case with you. Some USB modems support configuration. So its recommended you check your carrier website for more information. Also what I find really useful is using a router to share your mobile connection, like Dovado Routers 

64-bit has better performance. Not only from the bit perspective, but also you get to use the full 4GB of RAM. You get also a wider range of applications. But that's it. The RAM module will be with the same speed, and games will be addressed at the same speed. What's more important for games, is the graphics card. Take my laptop for example, I can run games up to 2012 games (with 20-30 fps), but still don't get the best experience. CPU is important also for games. But some games use more CPU resources and some less. For example, Dragon Age: Origins uses so much CPU resources, that you will not get that much of experience of a dual core cpu. Sometimes you get 90% CPU usage, and that's not a bug. The processor it's not powerful enough for that game. HDD vs SSD. With one sentence: An SSD is a must for upgrading an old laptop, and one that will improve overall performance, including gaming. 

When you use the output will be , where is considered as a character (not a logical one, since it's inside the double quotes). So in your case (), is searching for a file/folder named inside the directory. When it's outside the double quotes is considered as a logical character, meaning anything that starts with (, etc). Or if (anything that is on that directory). Sorry if I'm using some wrong terms here, but that's the idea. 

I have an Acer Aspire 7720G, with a Core 2 Duo T9300 CPU 2.5GHz, NVIDIA GeForce 9600GT 1GB and 4GB RAM. It came with windows vista 32-bit. After that I installed Windows 7 32-bit, and now I have the 64-bit version installed. 

Side note: Sometimes some plugins get recreated by the software related to it. If this happens after deleting the file, follow the same procedure again, but before opening Firefox, go back on the location of the file and on the folder that contains it, > and select "Read only" and then select OK and open Firefox. If it is a toolbar: Option I Open Bitdefender and click on Settings. Then go to 'Privacy Control' and from the Antiphishing tab set on OFF 'Show Bitdefender Toolbar'. Option II Go on Control Panel > Uninstall a program and search for "toolbar" and see if there is any toolbar related to bitdefender and uninstall it. 

Some question I have: 1. Have you tried to connect to another network? And if so does the same happen? 2. Does this happen in another machine or only in this one? 3. Are you running any firewall, antivirus or different DNS? 

There are a couple of ways to fix this problem. Some of them are mentioned in the other answers, but I don't think that is the case. I've had the same issue before. Here's what you have to try... 1. Download a tool called CheapEasy and check your device VID and PID. 2. Go to $URL$ and enter the device VID or PID and search for the flash tool for your device. To make sure you get the right one, check on the CheapEasy tool for your Flash Part number or flash ID, which usually will be on the description of the flash tool you have to download. P.S. If you have trouble finding the right tool, export you device information and send a link so I can check it. It might look impossible to find the right one, but I've fixed almost all types of USBs, expect some chinese copies of Kingston USBs. 

If the spare HDDs are empty and don't have data in them, they can be stored in a box. I personally store them in a anti-static bag, and inside a crush/dust/water proof case. If they have data in them, they might be affected to data fading. In my opinion there's no issue if you keep the HDDs in a constant room temperature, and protect them from moisture, static electricity and dust. Also keeping them in a place where no vibration is present is a must. Random vibrations and constant vibrations can both create issues. Both might create a displacement of the servo's head (sometimes damage of the head), or worse, damage in the motor and platters (like cracks in the worst case scenario). Theoretically it should be fine, unless there's some factor I'm not considering. I did this myself with 2 HDDs for 6-7 months, and 3 for a bit more than a year, and everything was working as expected. And in the long term, they started showing failures the same as those that were put in use at the moment of purchase. A more in-depth look related to this kind of issues can be found in this video: $URL$ 

Actually I've come into the same problem some time ago, and there is an alternative option to do that. That is, you have to edit the torrent files separately. If those are folders that are with the same name, they can be edited directly from almost any torrent client. But if we talk about files, that would be impossible. So, in this case it would be handy to use an online torrent editor. I use a website called Torrent Editor. You can edit everything from the torrent file, and download a new copy of the updated one. Now, if you don't have the torrent file, and you are downloading using a magnet link, just convert that magnet link to a torrent file using a website like $URL$ As for how to generate a hash for the different files, check OnlineMD5 You can replace each torrent file name with the appropriate hash and update and download the new torrent files after editing. Other than this, I don't think there is any other option. 

Not sure if you are running into a problem, or just you want to speed things a bit. Anyway, for tips how to speed up things, I will make the text in italic. This depends also on your system specs, but still there could be some windows problems. It could also be a virus. For windows to generate thumbnails, it's needed some time for that. Only in case those thumbnails are generated before, and are in the thumbnails cache, the content shouldn't take at all to load. You can check if this happens, or if it takes a lot to load even after you open and reopen a folder. If it always takes a lot, most probably it's a virus. Now, that could be a problem also if you installed a codec with a bug (or maybe a thumbnail generator in general). Try to uninstall them (if you have any), and install one as K-Lite Code, which has a tool to generate thumbnails also. But this will be only valid for video thumbnails. As for other thumbnails, they get generated by programs which files are opened by default on windows. If the problem happens on any type of file, than you can try to disable thumbnails by pressing key and going on on the menu bar, and - View Tab, and select 'Always show icons, never thumbnails' and apply changes. This will speed things up, but you will not see thumbnails anymore. To remove, add, or organize your context menu, check out this tutorial, and for a more detailed or advanced one, check this one. P.S. Please let me know if you still need help... 

I've come to this issue myself and done some research. Some of the causes related to it: 1. Video paused for some time and when resumed the video gets reloaded and starts from the moment you left it. (Usually happens on youtube) 2. Lost connection - sometimes it might happen that you lose your internet connection, and the video gets "reloaded" at the moment it was interrupted. 3. Browser changes regarding HTML5 implementation. - I think this could your case. As I've had the same problem the latest months and not before. Some video players do not support HTML5 video, and browsers are tending to update their core to play HTML5 by default, which in my opinion it's not still perfected. 4. Change in your public IP - Several time ago, my ISP was doing some changes in the public IP (how the ip was set to different users), and google and many other sites showed messages like connection not secure or something similar. 

Go to start, and in the search box type "cmd", right click>run as administrator. Once opened, type "DISKPART" On diskpart, type: "list disk", then "select disk 0" (since drive D:\ is the one you want to make changes, as I see from the screenshot) After that, type "list partition", then "select partition 1" type "active" 

The only way I've done this, is by converting the PDF to another format (usually word), changed the font and fixed any small problem, and then converting it back to PDF. This works almost perfectly if you are working with a normal PDF file and not a scanned one. I would recommend Acrobat DC as it converts the PDFs better. This is what results to me at least... 

Open a new tab on firefox and enter: Search for "Bitdefender" with and copy the location of the plugin Close Firefox, delete the file on that location and reopen Firefox again 

There are a couple of ways... 1. You can use the same log in credentials for both PCs and you will get everything synced. This is the way I prefer, even though it would be better that they included also an option to sync (or share) with other users (say addons). Of course, you can choose to sync only the addons for your profile. 2. Using an addon with witch you can back up your addons, and then "restore" them to the other PC, such as FEBE. 3. You can modify the package and the database if you can, so they get preinstalled (something that I find very complicated). Although not all where entirely what you requested, these are some of the alternatives. I will gladly edit the answer if someone else knows some other way. 

(here I'm assuming you have some browser open or some service making ssl connections, which usually happens on most of the systems) TLS is basically SSL. Check here for more. I think you should have a better understanding of TCP. Here you can find a list of common protocols running over TCP. Extra helpful tips: Create a new column for the source port: Right click on the columns header > Column Preferences > Click on the + sign and set the name to Source port and type Source port. This way you can see what packet is being sent over TCP and over what port. You can learn more about display filters here. 

There's an --hitcount option which specifies the number of failed attempts. I suggest you test this on a test computer or something, not SSH-ing to a remote server as you might get locked. Unless you have KVM console access. A similar answer is given here: Automatically deny hacking attempts in CentOS? For more seconds, just specify your value and it should work. Something to always keep in mind, is that DROP rules must be at the end of the rules. Usually the iptables rules file is located in /etc/sysconfig/iptables For other options, you can check $URL$ You can find almost anything on the linux.die.net page. It includes the linux man pages and more. To check the list of banned IPs, you can run: iptables -L INPUT -v -n Check this for more: $URL$ And, what I personally found useful is this guide: $URL$ 

It will go to the wired connection, or the top-most connection on the connection settings. They work one at a time, but with tools like Connectify, you can access more than one connection simultaneously. If you are connected via LAN you can access shared folders in different computers. If you are connected to a wireless connection, you can access those that are connected to that wireless and have provided you access to their shared folders. If that web server has ftp access, you can access it through windows explorer or any other tool for ftp access. Every connection that provides you internet connection can give you access to it. In case you manage the server yourself and are connected through it via LAN, you can connect to it via your LAN connection. 

Windows generates according to file types the folder properties. In the second image, you have in that folder music files, or media files in general, therefore you see those details. In this case you have to "convert" the media folder, to "normal" folder. To do that, right-click on the folder you want to make changes Properties > Customize, and under "What kind of folder do you want?" > "Optimize this folder for:", select "General Items". You can alternatively select "Also apply this template to all subfolders", and click Apply/Ok to save changes. But, you also have to know that by doing this, you will not have some buttons next to organize, in the menu bar, like Play selected, Play all, etc. To remove undesired details, click Alt > View > Choose details... and select the one you want in that folder. But you have to know that changes do no apply to all the folders or files, but to the folder(or/and subfolders) and files you are making the changes. For more read: Windows Explorer Column Heading Permanent???, choose details for multiple folders at one time 

That's the way windows works, and that's the part HDD are bad at. Usually SSDs are good at copying small files. You can check out benchmarking of HDDs and SSDs about file transfer speeds. But you have to know that other things are in place, like windows is reading first the files, then your antivirus checks them, and then they get written to the new destination folder. Not to mention that when you cut a file, the deletion process is added. So, more files, more "real" time added to copy a bigger number of files. 

Open start > run > cmd and type (or type cmd directly from search): This will show you from what was the computer waked. If it was a device, type: . The device will show at the bottom of the results from the first command. P.S. I'm assuming you don't have any peripheral connected... 

And this is where you have done the partition bootable. After this, you have to go to Disk Management and right click to Disk 0, change driver letter to whatever you want. Then, right click, change driver letter of "C:" to "D:". The final step would be to change the driver letter from whatever you assigned to, to "C:". So in other words, you make the drive bootable, change the letters, and then follow the steps above but this time with the old drive, and make it "inactive" (you can change the driver letters from diskpart also. reopen it, select the driver you want to make changes, type "assign letter=?", where ? is the letter you want) CAUTION: This can result in problem with booting, and sometime cause the computer to launch the startup repair. Therefore, I suggest you the first method. Notes: In case if you are unable to change the driver letters, make the new partition as active, and the old one inactive, restart the computer, and then change the letters. Method III: Using a live cd application, like Clonezilla, which basically runs from a CD or USB, and does the operation as working from another system. Select the source drive and the destination drive and complete the operation. Everything should work fine then (even though clonezilla has some limitations in drive sizes). But that is for cloning. After you remove the old drive from it's slot, and check everything works fine, you can format the old drive. P.S. In case I made it unclear, or if something is wrong, please let me know, I will try to help you. But please, I would recommend you stick with the first method, since it's more secure.