I'm really curious of those software that promise you to make your RAM bigger and faster. But before I try it, I have to get your thoughts on it, Does the software really make your RAM run faster or boost your RAM? I just know that when you buy a physical RAM (eg. 2GB) and thats it. now if you wan't to make your computer run faster you would have to add/upgrade some of the hardware. Please share your Ideas. Thanks! 

Notice that when i downloaded the images, i am only interested in placing them in the secondary directory ("vegetable" and "pets") and didn't include the first directory anymore... Is there any software that let me do this? I have a MACOSX and Also have a Windows 7, So any would do for me. Thank You. 

I have a software that accesses a website, I want to monitor what website is it accessing and block that website. Is there a software similar to "windows task manager" that allows you to monitor software that accesses a website? I want to know what website/server is it accessing so I could then block it. And Is there an alternative way to block aside from "host" file? Thanks! FYI: running on Win7 

Your key is actually stored in the BIOS. But don't go looking for it in there. Since microsoft decided to remove the stickers at the bottom of your laptop, 

The " that are included are required Option 2 also fixes your issue with Microsoft Edge, Cortana, etc. Hopefully one of the options worked for you! 

I recently purchased a series of a TV Show off the Microsoft Store as at the time I didn't have any credit on iTunes. After I downloaded them I tried to play one using Windows Media player, but said it encountered a problem and refused to play it. I tried with VLC Media player and all I get is a very glitched out picture. I attempted to covert the video into .avi using DIVX but it still returned the same results. Why is this happening? 

Your USB has most likely become corrupt. Open CMD and type in when CMD shows in the output type in locate your 64MB USB drive. Mostly USB's are recongised as disk 2, BUT PLEASE CHECK THIS OR YOU MAY LOSE IMPORTANT DATA! type in WARNING: PLEASE MAKE SURE IT HAS SELECTED THE USB AND NOT A PARTITION ON YOUR HARD DRIVE! when it outputs type Wait for the process to finish. Close DISKPART and press WIN+R and type in Check to see if the full 4GB is there (In windows' case, 3.7GB*) If it is, right click the partition and select "New Simple Volume" Follow the steps and select "Quick Format" You should now have your full 4GB Back. *Windows technically does not use Gigabytes, but instead Gibibytes. Learn more here: EDIT: If it does not even let you run CLEAN, your USB drive has most likely triggered the read-only function in the firmware, which is irreversable What is a Gibibyte? 

Hi I have a Windows 7 installer and I'd like to extract the built-in drivers of Windows 7 to be used in my windows xp install. Is it possible that I can make use of the drivers from windows 7? I'd like to install windows 7 instead of Windows XP but the hardware isn't ready for Windows 7. Drivers i'm interested is for Video and Sound. I also can't download drivers because i have a slow internet connection. Thanks! 

Are there similar software or alternative to Adobe Edge? I'm looking for a software where you can animate your html elements visually or using a GUI and then it will export in HTML and using javascript(jQuery if possible). If there's none yet, I hope the jQuery (or other JS framework) community would develop a small app where you can just drag html elements, and animate it visually. 

Do you know any software or compilations that you recommend to handle drivers and codecs for newly formated computer? I am having problem gathering drivers and codecs when I format my computer or other's computer because we frequently misplace it's original drivers. I need an offline solution that doesn't need internet. Same for as the codec, when formating computer we frequently lost our codecs, are there codec packs you know that you would like to recommend? P.s. I had tried driver bot but it's only good when your online, I'm looking for a complete package that has all the driver to most common hardware (eg. Monitor, Sound, etc). Thanks! 

I have an Epson WF-3620 and recently it couldn't print anything, as it sounded as if the paper was stuck, then the printer rolled the paper through and displayed an error on the screen, it told me to turn the printer off via the button and turn it back on again. Now I am getting this issue where before the booting finishes and it takes me to the home screen, the printhead suddenly stops and the entire thing shuts down. Its also always in this position when the entire thing shuts down (The printhead is the grey box with colours inside) 

So I just refreshed my windows 10 Pc. (Keeps all my files) but now at the boot screen I'm stuck with this: 

I've decided to upgrade to Windows 10 on my Dell Optiplex 760, but the problem is when I boot from the USB, nothing happens. This is also the same on my laptop which is where I downloaded the iso from Microsoft's Insider Build page, I have tried both arch's (x86 and x64) and both won't boot from my desktop. What should I do? Specs: Dell Optiplex 760 Intel Core2 Duo (64 Bit Processor) nVidia GeForce 210 1GB DDR3 2GB DDR2 RAM Intel Virtulisation Technology (VT-d / VT-x) CD/DVD RW Drive 

Are there software you know that can copy images from a DVD? now the problem is there images in the DVD that are corrupt that I won't force to copy, If the software can recover the file and copy it that would be cool, If it cannot then skip the file. The dvd is kinda large and I don't want to sit and wait there. I want the DVD do the decision, If it can recover then recover if it cannot, then skip. And do you know other solution copying corrupt files? thanks! 

I need help/guide how I can open my ssh access from a GUI or Filezilla. Here's the scenario my developer just left me with the login info to my Amazon EC2. Now I am finding difficulties in understanding all this stuff. I used PuTTy and command prompt just to connect to my server using ssh process. It uses some bridge process just to connect to my actual server. right now he provided me 2 sets of login. [Set1] 

This is a Toshiba C50B14D, today when trying to power it on it refused to, the power light would illuminate, the fan would spin very quietly, then it would shut off. No display or anything. I tried the usual Toshiba diagnostic steps all the forums are talking about, but none of them have worked. I tried powering it on with the power cord and no battery, it does the same but the charging indicator will flick off then on again. Is the main board or any other component dead? I'm not sure as it doesn't have error codes like Hp laptops do. 

It is possible, but you need to put the iso onto a usb disk. (4GB or more, I reccomend 8GB just in case) Now download the Windows 7 USB/DVD Download Tool and install it, afterwards open it and select the ISO file, click USB then let it do its job. Once it says its completed, go to Computer (Or this pc) and click your USB. Then navigate to the sources folder and delete the file. When you load your windows 10 installer from usb, it will show all windows installations! 

[my process] in [Set1] I enter "bridge.hisdomain.com" in the hostname of PuTTy. after I hit Open It will open a terminal and will asked for a username. thats where I provide my [Set1] username and password. Ounce login, I then perform [Set2] Details. I will use "ssh username@123.456.789.123" after I enter it, It will then asked for my password. from there, when I do "DIR" in command prompt I will see al my files there. I wanted to download a directory there to my local drive but I am not familiar with the commands. I would like to access it just by using FileZilla or similar. And I've also tried this but I don't know what I'd miss, because It didn't work for me. I downloaded a .pem file from the [set1] because I can also access it using a regular FTP (filezilla) and I then converted that .pem file to .ppk. right now I'm kinda confuse what login info I should use for my FileZilla to access the server. I had success in loging via FTP using [Set1] login details. But my files aren't there. I only saw some folders and a .pem file. I can't login to my Filezilla using [set2] details. I tried FTP and SFTP. I also added the .ppk file in the settings of my fileZilla. But I had no success in loging in. any ideas what did I miss? 

Your only choice will be to use a software to retrieve the missing key. Download this software and unzip the software, after opening try searching for it with the MSDM option checked, 

What should I do now? I am completely out of ideas. (I have also tried BOOTICE, but that did nothing too) 

So I currently have this issue where my Epson WF-3620DWF can't find the blue and yellow cartridges. (They are official epson ones) and I have a full black cartridge in there. How do I force my printer to ONLY print in black and ignore the cartridge(s) not recognised error? 

These DNSUnlocker things are everywhere on every page on my PC. I don't even know how it even got on my system. After finding it in control panel and uninstalling it, it seems to still terrorize my pc, with most words becoming links for "ads" which is really annoying when trying to click play on one of my games. I won't be able to add images because the images button has been taken over by the adware. How can I stop this "DNS Unlocker" adware from messing up my PC?