I tried the option, and it seems to work with as well! (though its documented only in ). I.e the EngineID is same across restarts. 

I have a SNMP trap sender, in which I have to configure the EngineID of the receiver (doesn't seem to support discovery) in case of SNMP V3 Inform!. And my receiver being , the EngineID seems to be a random generated one on each restart (the )! I there a way to assign an EngineID to , so that I can configure it on the sender side? 

EDIT There can be new MIBs added, with newer versions of software, so I do not want to statically map an IP to allowed OIDs (as in SNMP VACM views). Also, this method makes it difficult to manage, when there are many interfaces(IPs) and many MIBs. I would want to know, if it is possible to filter out results, dynamically (by looking at the OID, and the requester's IP, if a result is relevant or not) 

I've 2 remote HP Proliant DL180 G6 servers with HP Integrated Lights Out enabled on both and I have to install RHEL5 on these servers. I try to do it with ILO - mounted ISO file from local hard drive as Virtual CD-ROM, and performed installation from ILO console. OS installation on the first server was successful. But I have to make 3 tries to achive this. The channel between me and the servers is too slow - they are in datacenter. The installation takes a long time - 5-6 hours. So sometimes Virtual CD accidently unmounts and installation hangs. How can I perform the installation on the other server in more convinient way? 

I'm trying to setup Nginx as a reverse proxy to Apache for a site running locally on :8080 and externally accesible via . The current configuration leads to a 502 - Bad Gateway error. 

I cannot connect from my machine to a server running Postgres. I think I've configured it all correctly. No firewall are present on the server. I'm running Postgres 9.1.9 on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS This is from /etc/postgresql/9.1/main/pg_hba.conf 

I have in /etc/postgresql/9.1/main/postgresql.conf I've stopped and started the service multiple times. : 

On a Ubuntu server, I have a database file under a user's home directory, specifically . Apache works under the group . What is the best way to grant access to that file to Apache? Thanks 

I have HAProxy 1.5 running on Ubuntu 14.04 (modified). It accepts connections on http and https ports. Two backend applications process requests using persistent connection. When I create around 2200 client connections haproxy stops accepting additional connections. But I want this system to accept at least 10K simultaneous connections. Here is connection statistics: 

I've loaded this files to document root and opened in Firefox 3.5. I see the first frame, see controls, but can't play video. This video plays good even from my server. How should I encode video to view it in browser? UPD: If I start playing video from the middle, everything works fine. 

Yes, it have. You should look at flag in your . Here is the output from my system that uses this processor (two lines are for two cores): 

I have enabled and monitoring one of my applications, where if the application restarts more than 4 times in 10 cycles, I stop it, and run a script (which, among other action, also does , and stops ) Now, if I manually start my application and again, starts out with monitoring disabled on all the applications. Is it possible to say somewhere in the or other configs to on start? I could have issued the command from my scripts, but there is a configured for , and I will have to wait until the connection is up, to issue the command. Instead it will be good to have start with monitoring enabled for . I am on the latest , built from source on Ubuntu trusty. 

to Log into the remote system and type xclock &. This starts a X clock program that can be used for testing the forwarding connection. If the X clock window is displayed properly, you have X11 forwarding working. 

You should place it somewhere outside webserver root, for example. It has security considerations: webserver code must not be exposed to uploaded code, and it can happen, if you mix these two things and set wrong permissions. And you keep your content between upgrades. If users upload small files, the best way is to store them in database. 

I want maximum information in minimum letters. First, to be able to get information from SMS. Second, to read only the headers of e-mail messages in 90% cases. For example, the previous message can be just "" where H stands for . If this server is down, I would like to get such a message: . Instead of message, that "Swap usage on server is CRITICAL" I would like to get "[!] S: server/swap usage is >50%" where 50 was taken from the nagios config for check_swap, not hardcoded into the message. And if "Router/wan2 is CRITICAL", I want to see "ADSL channel is off". So, to summarize, I want to customize message for every service and its state separately, with ability to use plugin parameters in text. How can I achieve this? 

This works if I visit $URL$ On my registry provider (that is not the same a my server provider) i have the following records set: 

is there any solution like LogmeIn consisting on a small client to install upon a *nix machine and hence being able to use its shell from the browser bypassing proxies because it all will work on :80? Thanks 

I have an application server running on port 80. How can I check if the incoming and outgoing traffic is gzipped? Also, the application communicates with another server (also HTTP requests). I'd like to check these connections are compressed as well. Can this be done with tcpdump? How? Thanks 

I think you should start of monitoring your memory usage/cpu usage and then monitor your server network activity. Try this tutorial. It describes the main linux monitoring tools that will help you. 

I have VMWare ESXi 4.0 preinstalled on the server with IP A. I also can use IPs B and C. I have KVM access to this server and I can connect to it using vSphere Client. CentOS iso-image isn't on the server. My task is to create two virtual machines on this host and install CentOS 5.4 on both. Then I have to configure network, so guest1 is accessible on IP B and guest2 is accessible on IP C. Can anyone provide me a brief howto on this topic? I tried to find it, but found nothing. 

I want to be able to dynamically filter the result of an SNMP walk, via an intermediate agent (a process) based on the interface(IP) where the request came from. I.e., my scenario is like this, say the request can come from two different network interfaces and , and I map these to the ID and respectively. If I have a MIB structure like: ... The SNMP Agent is responding with all the results, but in the interim process, I want to filter out what is not relevant for that requester, i.e., if the request came from , then I will only send out values which match its ID () ... ... etc. I checked the feature in - I want to be able to do something similar, but dynamically based on where the request is coming from, also I want to know if this can cause issues with the walk - as in, can this cause the lexicographic ordering to fail? I hope I made my question clear, any hints or pointers to probe further, much appreciated.