mod_pagespeed is new to me... first time I heard of it (sorry for the ignorance) seems interesting though. However the problem seems to be that OpenVPN is not letting you connect to the INTERNET, if I understand correctly without Openvpn you have Internet... with it you don't right? Can you post more details about the openvpn config? 

"All network connections working, clearly, since VPN works. Its how I am doing this post now, is via VPN and remote desktopping to work computer." Or not.. since you can't connect without the VPN :) We would need more info about the setup, but regardless of the OS, I would say this is some proxy config or the gateway/firewall is blocking it... If you "trace route" to some internet address what do you get? and what about the openvpn IP? If you're able to reach that but nothing else some firewall must be in place. 

I would say the problem is "all windows" and specially ISA... lets take the first example: Internet Explorer - your IT Support folks force the ISA Proxy server and exceptions (which you can't update) into IE's setting via Group Policy. This works flawlessly, except when it doesn't. Exactly... *when it doesn't is not so rare"... I think the main problem is that companies that are too attached to MS are afraid to move away from it or they don't have anyone with the skills to do it... The best proxy/cache software is IMHO SQUID! Also if possible proxy can be transparent and this way you don't need to set it in IE or other apps.. Now does squid solves all the problems? well not just like that... One problem will be again the NTLM auth... but squid acl's would solve this... For example you could have squid setup to allow non-auth access to windows updates and even cache it (no need for WSUS :) ) same for you're anti virus and java apps... The config would have to match the scenario of course but squid is indeed very flexible and reliable. But the most important part would perhaps be the "transparent proxy setup". What I advice is to setup a linux/unix box has you're firewall/default gateway (you could have OpenVPN server here to handle VPN connections). Squid could be in the same box or in another, a different box is always better. Of course this requires some knowledge of iptables (or you could use something like shorewall) or packet filter, or you could still have an ISA box with OpenVPN and squid setup in a different box, but why pay for extra licenses, and most important, why run a GUI server for a firewall, vpn or proxy/cache??? But in any case its possible. NOTE: I'm not trying to say that Windows totally sucks and linux/unix is way better, I do believe that linux/unix is allays better for servers, but its still difficult to find companies willing to have their desktops without windows, mainly because of Office. My point is that in the "servers" world their are other solution a part from Microsoft that might cost much less or even nothing (except the time to set it up ofc) 

If you have access to your cable or DSL modem's web interface (usually through $URL$ or 0.1), you can try looking there. My modem's interface has a Status tab, where it shows the WAN IP address. 

Did you even check LG's website for the drivers? Half a minute of google searching gave me this: $URL$ If you have already tried the above driver, maybe you should post any errors you got. 

You need a CPU with hardware virtualization support to virtualize 64-bit guests operating systems. You can use SecurAble to find out if your processor supports it. Also check this link for the requirements to run a 64-bit guest OS: $URL$ 

I don't know if this method will work with Windows Vista or Windows 7 installations; I have never tried to find it. But it definitely works with XP. Another option is to use a registry tool in Hiren's BootCD, like 

I have an HP m7560in Desktop which came with an LG DVD burner. As far back as I can remember, it has been having problems in burning discs. It used to take about one and a half hour to burn 4 GB of data on a blank DVD-R. I am using Nero and ImgBurn and I usually select 8x speed for burning. I used to run XP earlier and now I run Windows 7 on it, but I face the problem on both. I have already checked that DMA mode is selected in the IDE controllers' properties. On XP, uninstalling the IDE controllers and DVD drive from the Device Manager, rebooting and letting it install the drivers again fixed the problem for a while, but after a couple reboots, the problem used to come back. On Windows 7, even doing that is not fixing the problem. In fact, in Windows 7, the burning process doesn't even begin. Imgburn gets stuck on the first stage (of writing Lead-In), and it never progresses until I turn off / reset the computer. I checked the disc info after this happened, and the disc still shows empty and ready to be burned on, so it's obvious that it didn't even touch the disc. I have already had the drive replaced once by HP, but it didn't fix the problem. Do you guys have any suggestions? (Note that Windows Updates doesn't give any newer driver for the controllers, or any other components for that matter). 

I remember this happened to me too. I solved it by turning off the scheduler for all time periods and then setting it up again. Uncheck the Enable Scheduler box, check it again, 'color' all the time boxes in white (i.e. Turn off), and then color the time periods you want with green again. 

Its because the image cache was corrupt. It's a file called Thumbs.db and its hidden. Select show hidden and system files in directory properties and then delete Thumbs.db in any folders with corrupt icons. 

After few hours I got tired of all this and decided that I don't give a damn about my data. I saw that the progress was on 120GB while the operation was to move a 100GB partition left and expand to 500GB. As it is after copying all the data that was on the disk it was essentially copying zeroes, there was a good chance I could salvage something so I hit cancel. after running check volume in gparted, running windows repair from windows cd(it didn't boot without) and running chkdsk the system booted and had all my files. I guess I'm lucky. 

Is it ok to leave 0 bytes free in the partition if I will never boot it again, only copy files off it? Even if its ok, will gparted shrink it to 0 bytes free without defrag? if it won't, how can I defrag it without booting windows? 

I have a MacBook Pro and I installed Windows 8 on it. Windows 8 took ages to boot up (15 minutes atleast). Because the MacBook Pro is fast, I thought it must be a hardware problem and tried installing it on a VM. When I tried installing it on an EFI enabled VM, even when not using EFI to boot, it took ages to boot. When I installed it on a VM with the same settings except EFI disabled, it booted in seconds. My MacBook Pro is similar to first VM - it has EFI enabled, but Windows doesn't use it. How do I fix it? is there any way to instruct Windows 8 to not poke around with EFI even when its there? 

My current windows installation got screwed but the files are fine. I want to install a new windows on a new partition. I thought about leaving 0 bytes free in the current installation partition and creating a new partition on the remaining space using Ubuntu live cd. My problems are: 

I have two screens. mainly I use only one but I want when I'm gaming or something to have skype open on the second screen. this works well, until I want to do something in skype. In both starcraft II and warcraft III the mouse just won't move to the other screen while on the desktop or in non-games the mouse jumps from screen to screen when I move it to the edge. I there a way to make the mouse still jump from screen to screen when a game is on? or even better have a shortcut that moves the mouse to another screen (like alt-1 will put it on screen 1, alt-2 on screen 2)? 

For this purpose, you can just pause the slideshow by right clicking on the slideshow screen. After that, the picture will only change when you press the mouse button or arrow keys. 

I have an 8 year old computer (Pentium 4 1.6 GHz, 256 MB DDR RAM) which is not turning on (it beeps for 10 seconds and then goes off). Nothing appears on the screen, so I can't get into the BIOS. A computer repair person listened to the beeping pattern and told me that its because the integrated graphics on the motherboard is defective. It's an ASUS P4S333-VM motherboard and the graphics solution is SiS 650. He tried putting in a PCI graphics card expecting that the computer will use that instead and ignore the integrated graphics, but apparently older computers don't switch automatically to the dedicated graphics card; it needs to be changed from the BIOS. But, I can't get inside the BIOS settings as I already said. I am told that the only option now is to replace the motherboard (which is not feasible since it's very old now). So, is there any way to make the computer use the PCI graphics card? IIRC, the motherboard also has an AGP port, but I think that it will also need to be selected from the BIOS? 

Simple copy and paste only copies the files, not the boot information stored in the disc. You need to use the Copy DVD feature of a disc burning application to do this. I recommend ImgBurn or CDBurnerXP to perform this task. 

Alternatively, you can do it the manual way by following these instructions, which tell you how to modify the ei.cfg file to change the edition. 

A portable install means you can copy the folder, where the program is installed, to a storage device (like a USB flash drive or HDD), and then you can run the program on another computer without having to run an installer. On the other hand, you cannot just copy the regular install folder of a program to another computer. It might work with some programs, but it's not recommended, because there are other types of files and registry entries too, which the program uses. These are not copied over just by copying the install folder, and thus the program may not run properly elsewhere. 

I don't know which Windows you are using. At least for Windows XP, you can make something like a Bart PE bootable CD, (Windows PE stands for Windows Preinstallation Environment), boot from the CD, load the registry hive (you will probably need the file named "system") using the Registry Editor from the boot CD, and remove the autorun entries manually. The registry hives are stored at C:\Windows\System32\Config\ (Source). There is a guide with graphics illustrations here. The autorun programs are usually stored in these places: