I was working. BSoD shows up Display goes black while the memory dump was on 20%. Monitor power was up, its just there was nothing to display. There was nothing happening, like no hard disk activity. So, I cold restarted the system. Nothing shows up on the display. No hard disk activity. There even wasnt any beep sound. Tried restarting it several times. But the result remains the same. 

I didn't know that my google account wasn't in sync with my chrome for the last couple of months and now that I have link again, the restored record is several months old. Now, that I've lost all my recent bookmarks and all other stuff...is there anything or anyway so I could revert the Google sync so I can get my bookmarks back? Update 1 I have found that under there is a file named that holds the old state of my bookmarks before the sync. Update 2 is the file that holds the current(after sync) bookmark list. I replaced with and restarted chrome, but still chrome isn't fetching information from the updated file. So, I have my old bookmark information, but how to restore it in chrome. Update 3 : solved I still couldn't figure out why replacing the bookmarks file didn't work and aparently that's the only solution available on web. I reinstalled everything and then copied the old bookmarks file. Then I got my bookmarks back again. Lession learned : Check regularly if google sync is working. 

I was trying to write an boot-able IMG file(Hexxeh Chromium OS) using Windows Image Writer to my pen drive. But, after the write process is done, the pen drive became became inaccessible. I tried this on 2 of my pen drives, and both turned out to be the same. They weren't even boot-able. I tried formatting and after the format, capacity of both the pen drives was showing 1GB. One was GB and another was GB. But after the format, now the pen drive is accessible. I think the damage is minor and can be repaired using some repair utility. I googled but could find any reliable one. Can anyone redirect me to some resource to repair the pen drives. Thank you! 

How can I manually decrypt these notes if I don't want to use page notes anymore? I have them saved as a csv file. 

Currently I'm on a new project and working with an existing server (redhat) that has already been setup. One of my tasks right now is to upgrade ffmpeg to the latest version. I'm familiar with navigating the shell and all, but I'm not too familiar with how to upgrade software. So far I have the following down: 

I'm currently in a symbolic link directory and I want to go up one level in the absolute path, but I cant as it will hit me back up to my home directory (~). I can do pwd -P to get the absolute path, but how do I pipe that result into the cd command? I always thought it was this: {} Sample: 

I have no way to open ports on my router as its a shared office environment. I'm able to access my nas via CloudLink, but how do I get my Qsync to work with it? I can't find any docs in order to get this to work. 

But when i do a sudo su < user >, php is is loading the cgi version which is breaking some of my applications that require php-cli version. 

I tried changing the php-cgi to php-cli, but that just totally broke all my websites as I believe my cms websites require php-cgi to run properly. How do I make php-cli as the default program when i do a sudo su user or sudo -i? 

Recently I've been getting notification popups on certain websites. I don't know if I accidentally clicked it or not, but its really annoying. I found that you can disable all of this completely in the "content settings" of chrome, but I want to leave it on with permission to ask. I couldn't find the stupid site in the list of "exceptions", but found a $URL$ wildcard indicating its being set by a plugin. But problem is WHAT PLUGIN? I want to remove this site from notifying me. Is there a way to do this? I also checked off "Do Not allow any site to show notifications" in chrome and it still showing up. 

I can access youtube using IE and FF. My question is purely from a technical standpoint, What's the meaning of this error? and how can I solve it? 

I am reading a networking book and it says - to have a high capacity(bits per second) link, we need to have a high bandwidth link. And bandwidth is defined as the range of frequencies available for communication on that particular link. For example, voice grade phone line typically supports a frequency range from 300Hz to 3300Hz, so the bandwidth of this link is 3000Hz. My question is, why having a large range of available frequencies on a link increases the capacity of that link? 

There was a sudden crash, Blue screen of death on my pc. But, after the memory dump on 20% the whole system turned off itself leaving only the power led on. After that I tried turning off and on again but there was no activity except all the cooling fan were running and the lit power led. There is nothing on the screen. There isnt even any beep sound. Where should I start troubleshooting my system? I dont have any second machine to try and replacing things. I think its a motherboard issue. Another thing is that, the BSoD was frequent now a days. But I didnt bother. Here is what happened 

Information is conveyed by the change in values in a signal. High data rate is achieved by making higher frequency signals. If a link supported higher bandwidth, that means it supports high frequency transmission. Which translated to being able to transfer high frequency signal. This is how high bandwidth correlates to high capacity for a network link. Source 

I'm doing some QA testing for a website I'm developing and I want to be able to open all the links on the webpage into its own tabs. Right now I have to click on each one manually to open it in a new tab. Is there a trick or plugin to do this automatically and open all the links in a the webpage into their own tab in Chrome? 

My ubuntu 12.04 server was working fine a few days ago. I didn't change any server configurations, but today all of a sudden I can't ping anything. What could be the potential issue here? I can't even ping 127.0.0.1 Below are my ifconfig stats: What else would one look for in this scenario? 

I'm thinking about using the google cloud storage as my main storage device instead of buying a bunch of my own nas devices. But what i'm wondering is my data secure and backed up via with google's massive infrastructure. So my question is, how does google cloud storage handle redundancy in case of a drive failure? do they even use raid or is it something much better? 

I've been using dropbox's public folder to upload small files I want uploaded to my server via the wget command. Is there a better faster method than this without setting anything up? Is there an online service for this kind of thing? 

Everytime I'm in WSL in windows 10 ubuntu and I press tab I get the anonying bell sound. How can I turn this off? 

Is there a tool or how would one encrypt data into a jpg file and be able to upload to photo hosting service? Has anyone done this with RAW image files as those can be much bigger and can hold more data. Another thing is has anyone done this to much larger files and span it across multiple jpg files? 

While I am trying to access youtube using chrome 22.0.1229.94 m(I am on windows 7), I am getting the following error, 

Is it possible to monitor one program from/using another program. Say, I want to monitor the responsiveness of a program or how much memory/cpu that process in using when doing a particular job. Is this possible? I am not talking about monitoring task manager. I was looking for something more sophisticated method that could identify , what process or what subsystem is causing the ir-responsiveness for that program etc etc. OS: Windows 7. 

I have Windows 8 installed on one of my HDD and I want to install Linux Mint on my unused SSD. The point is, I want to install another operating system to the unused hard driver in a way, that it does't interfere with Windows 8 default boot sequence. My plan is to use the Boot Option Menu(pressing F12) at boot time to select desired HDD to get different OS running. I don't want Mint to implement a boot loader on my primary storage. The problem is, I am using Lenovo Ideapad Y500(UEFI firmware) and since it came with Windows 8 pre-installed, I am assuming there is some hardware binding with the OS. i.e. OEM SLP key (Original Equipment Manufacturer - System Locked Pre-installation), One key recovery feature etc etc. Question is, is there going to be any problem if I just boot from live Linux Mint and install it to my SSD and try to boot it using Boot menu? How I can install Linux Mint without interfering with Windows 8? I want to keep everything separate from the hardware level. Thanks! Edit : Since I am on Laptop I didn't find a way to disconnect/remove my primary HDD without opening it up and I don't want to do that. 

I've been getting data from api websites by using file_get_contents or curl, but I never knew whats the difference from them. They seem to have the same results, but now there is Guzzle for php. What is the difference from all these 3? Why would one choose one over the other? 

I'm managing 2 linux servers and looking to copy the data from one to the other. I'm looking to just copy these files on one server first then zip it and then scp it over. I need to copy a 100GB folder, but there are many subfolders in this folder. And in these folders that are some files that are 5MB+. How can I make a copy of this folder without including any of the files that are over 5MB+ in linux? 

I first installed WSL on win10 then did an uninstall via the command: lxrun /uninstall / full I then try to reinstall with lxrun /install But I'm getting the Error 0x80070091 -- I'm not sure how to solve this issue. 

I'm in charge of migrating an existing server's websites to another server, but I require doing git clone and other related commands that require me to reach out into the internet and grab files. I can't even do a wget to pull in a file. The original server admins that set this up totally screwed it over with the blocked ports like :80. I cant do anything with wget or git clone as it just hangs and can't reach any of these sites. But it can grab from redhat repos only. And I even disabled the firewall. It's something to do on their end. Is there some sort of ssh tunneling where I can reroute the data from the server through my ssh connection in order to reach these websites? Waiting on the server admins to do anything takes days to weeks since its an outsource IT company. I just want to get it done today.