I'm currently somewhere with poor quality internet connections, working on some time-sensitive projects. I'd like to update from Windows 8.1 to Windows 10 at some point, but not for a month or so until I'm somewhere with better internet connections, with more time to fix any bugs, glitches or compatibility issues. Is this possible? Is there any way I can sign up for the free install now before the deadline, but defer performing the install until later when I've got the time and facilities to make sure it happens smoothly? 

It appears to be a list of "Services", judging by the fact that right-clicking on any gives the options , and . But strangely there's a button that goes to another window of services. Unlike the task manager I'm used to, it shows everything including things that aren't running. Right-clicking on the window itself does nothing. What I want is the normal list of running applications where I can force things to close. What is this window, why am I getting it instead of the task manager, and how can I get the normal task manager back? 

That first nameless fake drive-within-a-drive seems to be where all my files are, judging from its size (12GB) and the fact that, when Security Essentials was scanning the drive, I could see my old files behind an odd path like (note the space) as well as malware copies it removed like I'm not planning on opening it since I imagine that's part of how this virus propagates. Most of the files have backup copies, but there are a few files that I only got very recently that aren't yet backed up which I'd like to gain access to. I've tried: using or as suggested on this page, and using to browse the drive, but both had odd results - it's aware that the USB stick is there and correctly identifies the manufacturer, but says "File not found" on trying to access it: 

This is based on the WinSCP "Useful commands" page entry for "delete" with some important missing steps added. These steps you only need to do once: 

There's a simpler, non-VBA option here - Concatenate a cell range without vba in excel There are the key steps. Follow that link for images, comments and other tricks. 

Sometimes when a laptop / tablet / whatever is plugged in, it animates. Sometimes it just sits there like this. In both cases, it appears to be charging just fine. There's no obvious pattern that I can see in when it animates and when it doesn't, no obvious difference in what it says when moused over. I've tried searching for information on this and just found a reddit thread full of speculation and contradictory answers. One user speculates that the animation might be the fallback if Windows hasn't yet figured out how full the battery is, but other users give contradictory suggestions. What's Windows telling me if the icon starts or stops animating? I'm on Windows 8.1 but I think it's like this in other versions too. 

To be clear - unlike most other power adaptor / voltage questions on this site, I'm using the manufacturer-provided adaptor, and I already know the impact of deviations in volts (dangerous if too high, likely to fail quietly if too low) and amps (simply goes unused if too high, might fail or struggle if too low). 

How can I get to the small, windowed desktop calculator in Windows 8? (specifically Windows 8.1). In Windows 7 I'd find it in the Start menu, but the "Calculator" icon I found there only opens the massive full-screen version. I find this version really disruptive and distracting, switching in and out of desktop mode to a huge full screen calculator. I much prefer to use the calculator alongside other applications. 

I can't find any intelligible information on what this is or what it means. All that comes up that is even nearly relevant is a couple of Firefox/Mozilla support issues (1249469 and 1252945 ) discussing some very fine details of the implementation of... whatever this is. No clues I can understand about what any of this actually means. What it this and what does it mean? 

Here's an example of a complete configuration that worked for me, including the logging config, so you can see more easily where it goes: 

Curiously, IE by default is zoomed to the same level as what Firefox calls 100%, but it calls it 125%. 

My (windows 8) machine mostly connects using a metered connection, to one Exchange email account and one IMAP account. I'm using the Outlook 2016 Trial, which has a nice feature that warns me before it connects when it sees I'm on a connection I've set as "metered": 

Maybe I've missed something and/or am using the wrong search terms: this seems like a standard feature but I can't find any such option to show column numbers in the View menu and can't find anything online beyond that I can jump to, for example character #43 on line 9 with ctrl-p followed by . Which is nice, but how can I just see which column number the cursor is on? I'd like to enable something in the status bar or somewhere else visible that shows what column number or character number my cursor is currently on. I'm sure I used to have this feature in Sublime Text 2, which I recently upgraded from. At least one commenter in that linked question is having the same problem, so if I've missed something obvious, it's not just me. 

I've found what looks like a possible explanation from someone I believe is a Mozilla developer, but it's very technical (intended audience = other firefox developers) and I don't really understand what it actually means. I think maybe this means that Firefox is complaining because it doesn't like the way Firebug is trying to take over break handling, and Firebug is responding to these system messages as console warnings then just keeps on doing what it was doing? 

What does it mean when a firewall says that a new WiFI network connection has caused the DNS server settings to change? What should a regular end-user be aware of, and are there circumstances under which it should be treated as a concern? 

Word itself gives no indication or warning of why it's eating all this data, and Office 2016 is an application that is aware that my network is a "metered" connection. It can't be anything to do with checking Office 365 accounts (I'm on a Business subscription, in case that's relevant), because if it was I'd expect Excel to do the same, but Excel only eats kilobytes of data. Why would Word be eating tens of megabytes of data every few hours when not doing anything (just sitting with one document open in the background) and not updating itself (because updates are off)? 

p.s. It's very hard to find quality information on the VZ firewall utility. Everywhere I look takes me to either woefully incomplete for-dummies style resources, or, information about configuring iptables directly. I can't find anything on how the UI settings are interpreted behind the scenes or how they relate to existing iptables settings. Any general pointers towards detailed quality information on what's going on behind the scenes of the VZ firewall utility would also be appreciated. 

I've received an email with many attachments. I want to save them all at once - but "Save all attachments" is grayed out, with no clue as to why. 

Apparently, Firefox has decided that it's going to quietly take that setting, and pretend that 100% equals whatever that setting is. So for me, in Firefox-land, 100% = 125%. It applies this to the Firefox UI as well as all web content (which is why my Firefox buttons look blurry). It sounds like there's no simple way to turn this off - the thread linked above describes some complex steps, then loads of people comment saying they don't work. 

I can't think of any more details to add. The only non-standard thing about my setup is, I'm on a metered connection (with Outlook set to be allowed to use it) and I set Outlook's download preferences to only download headers at first to save data. But I've downloaded the whole of this email. I'd like to find out what's disabling "Save all attachments" and find a way to un-disable it - I often receive emails with many attachments and I prefer to download them all this way. 

If you go down the portfolio road, check Matthew Oglethorpe's comment in the above linked thread on PDF Portfolio backward compatibility. Apparently, if you replace the Cover page for the portfolio in the "vertical Icon bar (left column, 3 buttons on my set up), click Pages icon(topmost)" under , you can remove the nag screen for people in older versions of Acrobat. Might only work in Acrobat 9, not tested. Looking at the way that, on a Mac, this ugly nag screen is used as the file icon on the desktop, I think the above method might also work for replacing the nag screen for non-Adobe users with something useful. Again, not tested. 

I'm running into what I think are issues to do with a settings on a github project. To confirm exactly what's going on and to see such issues clearer in future, I'd like to be able to see what line endings are on each line in a diff view in Github Desktop (Windows). For example make something like this: 

Pressing the "Escape" key on your keyboard causes it to disappear. Or alternatively, bringing up any other box along the bottom replaces it. For example, "Find" replaces it with the Find box, then you can click the close X icon in the Find box. 

What I want is, as soon as I enter content into the new row, the conditional formatting to apply, like this: 

On installing Office 2016, I tried to sign in to my Office account. However, it wouldn't let me try: 

Microsoft support are trying to send me a 1GB file. The problem is, their homespun file transfer service (filetransfer.support.microsoft.com) appears to be configured in a way which prevents downloads from being resumed. I don't know what they've done on their side, but here are some example symptoms: 

Example reading a cell that contains a number to be treated as a column number (e.g. if it contains 25, it'll return AB): 

It doesn't resize with the bubble this way, but it does always remain in the right place below the heading regardless of the text or sizing and it moves with the bubble. It doesn't take long to resize the line shape after you're got the bubble the right size. 

I'm looking for how to apply conditional formatting to blank cells - but ONLY if the row they are in is not completely blank. For example, I'm making a project tracking sheet, and I want incomplete stages in projects to stand out. So here is how it looks with a simple "format blank cells" rule applied to the first four rows: 

Currently, because it seems excessive and there's no reason I can see, I'm using the firewall to block it. 

I started up a networked office computer (VDI) I don't usually use and, while it was finishing booting up and opening Outlook, it popped up this message: 

Is this line just a regular line? Or does it need to be a shape or a path? If it's just a regular line, I'd just do this: 

Wow, Illustrator 6 from 1996. Illustrator CS6 is version 16, so that's the version 4 versions behind CS1. Illustrator v8 and below used a file format based on post-script, so you can try broadening your searches to include v7, v8, v5 etc since it's likely that anything that supports one of these should support all, and you could try opening these files as postscript (.ps) files rather than illustrator. Converting old Adobe files isn't easy, Adobe periodically phase out backwards compatibility. Postscript is near-universally supported, but illustrator-specific features and markup around the post script aren't, so results may vary from file to file. Some options: (for all these options, if you can't convert to jpg in the program suggested, convert to eps, svg or pdf then open that in modern Illustrator and convert there. Again, results will vary from file to file) 

I tried to have some business cards printed at a local print shop yesterday, who asked for the files on USB pen drive. Big mistake. I came away with an absurd heap of malware which (fortunately) Windows Security Essentials (Windows 7) quickly spotted and cleaned: 

I've heard that Skype has a "feature" where if you are connected on multiple devices and someone calls you, it guesses which device it thinks you are closest to, and then only that one device rings. Here's one example discussion of it, with no clean resolution. So for example, if you're Skype-chatting to someone on your computer, then you pop outside, and someone calls you, Skype on the phone in your pocket won't ring because Skype has guessed that you are closest to your computer, so you won't receive the call. I want to turn this feature off. I want Skype to behave like, say, Gmail, which pops up notifications on all connected devices then removes them when one device answers the mail, or like a 90s-style home landline with multiple phones in different rooms, where all phones ring until one is answered. Is this possible?