Another key reason I think it is so popular is that it is considered a "Green" way of operating your data center, because it has the potential to use less electricity. And Greenwashing is a big thing for corporate PR departments as of late. In a typical non-virtualized environment you you have build each server with excess capacity to handle the peak load, which means that you have a lot of extra horsepower suckling on a power outlet just in case everyone decides they need to kick off an expensive request at the same time. In a virtualized environment, multiple logical servers can share that excess capacity under the assumption that the logical servers co-located on a physical machine aren't all going to get maxed out simultaneously. A second reason it is gaining steam is that it is riding the coat-tails of cloud computing. Virtualized servers are a core technology that makes it possible to offer many of the features of cloud computing, that not-coincidentally mirror those of virtualization. Cloud computing is a hot trend right now and chances are that if you are putting servers in the cloud they are virtualized servers. 

In case it helps, I am running FF 3.5 on that exact same OS and patch level and it seems to be working. If you indicate the error you are getting I might be able to help further. 

I am planning a wireless network that will involve a wireless radio modem that must be mounted pretty far from my house on a post (Needs line of sight to work) and then getting the signal back over to the house using an outdoor wireless access point(something like this, for example). Both the modem and the WAP can be powered by Power over Ethernet and I was wondering if I can chain them. For example, can I replace this configuration... Cat5 -> PoE Injector -> Cat5 -> WAP -> Cat5 --> PoE Injector-> Cat5 -> Modem With this configuration... Cat5 -> PoE Injector -> Cat5 -> WAP -> Cat5 -> Modem Is this possible? Also, Is one of these two configurations a bad idea for some reason? 

You can use AutoHotkey to move the keyboard focus to the file pane. In this example, I use the hotkey Win+Space: 

As other have mentioned, there is no built-in keyboard shortcut. However, we can work some magic with AutoHotkey. I am going to use the Backspace key to close the highlighted Taskbar window: 

You do not need to create GUIs or use hotkeys with AutoHotkey. You can write powerful command line utilities by compiling an script. That being said, you will want to look at the FileAppend command for working with . 

It appears that Safari is reading your code as intended, while Firefox/Chrome is reading it as written; i.e. with and without the attribute. 

This is not a bad solution, but I'm curious to know if it's possible to bypass 'typing' in a path and go directly to any specific section. 

Sadly, this is normal. For whatever reason, the Chromium team has yet to implement a comparable addressbar/history feature to Firefox's. In the meantime, you can try the Better Omnibox extension to improve history and bookmark support in the Omnibox. 

If you have a dark wallpaper and there are no windows behind the Firefox window, you can use AutoHotkey to make the window transparent when it loses focus, and opaque when it gains focus. I've come up with a simple script that should also be light on resources: 

After searching using Search Engine A, click the icon in the address bar. The search suggestions drop-down will appear. 

I did this on each of the linked tables. Both time, when I tried to execute the query, I got a type mismatch error. Any ways around this? 

It seems like a really good place to start is to find out what application is using 0x000000006F5AD67D, but I haven't found where to look. I've looked in Task Manager and those give me IDs but not memory addresses. I also checked System Information (msinfo) but physical memory locations don't seem to be in there either. I downloaded and ran a heap memory tool but the running processes didn't coincide with that address. Any other hints / suggestions to see what program is using that memory location? The error message came up more than once with the same memory location in the error, so that seems to be pointing to one app as suspect. 

I'd have four columns: X, your scatter, your linear, and your quadratic. Have X go from 0 to 4 in steps of 0.01 (use fill ... series). Fill the three scatter points in the appropriate place. Then fill the other two columns with your function values for the line segment and the parabola. Adjust the size of the points in the last two so they're a little thinner and look like lines rather than points. 

was added to the path. I deleted this part of the PATH variable, and WikidPad no longer showed the dialog boxes. However, WebMatrix2 no longer worked, for the same reason: Bad Image errors. So one program needs the path to be there, and the other needs it to not be there. How do I fix this? 

When you install the 64-bit version of Internet Explorer, it also installs the 32-bit version. To use the 64-bit version, you have to find the shortcut in your Start Menu. 

To add a new item to the Right-click context menu of .png files, you add a new key and subkey to in the Registry. Based on your example, importing the following .reg file should work: 

Toward the bottom, you will see some information about the recent keystroke. We are interested in the (Scan Code). In my case, it was . 

Yes. The simplest solution would be to configure your virtual machine for Windows Remote Desktop Connection using RDP. The VMware knowledge base has a guide for configuring VMware here, and you will also need to enable RDP access from within Windows. Note that some editions of Windows do not support RDP or are only able to access other computers. If you find that you are not able to use RDP with your Windows virtual machine, there are many other screen-sharing and remote desktop software solutions. Wikipedia has a great list here. 

But... If you wanted to style the property on tab labels, menu item labels, and download labels, the following CSS selectors will work: 

You can only sync an iOS device with one iTunes Library at a time. When your friend plugged your iPhone into his computer, he must have chosen to erase your data and sync the device with his iTunes Library. The first thing I would try is to see if you can log in to your iCloud account on the iPhone and try to restore from an iCloud backup (assumming you are running iOS 5.0+). If not, and if you had originally synced the iPhone with your own computer, you may be able to use iTunes on that computer to restore the device from a backup. Otherwise, you can try to to recover your photos and videos by using data recovery software such as Recuva. 

This seems like a common enough procedure (I'm normalizing a table) that Excel would have this canned. Is there an easy way to do this, or does it get down to writing a macro or VBA? 

I have two tables (each in an Access DB) -- called LinkedTable1 and LinkedTable2 linked to my working Access database. I got them on my computer after downloading them from a SharePoint site (Actions -> Open with Access). In each of LinkedTable1 and LinkedTable2 there's a Memo field that contains a GUID. This GUID links the two tables. I'd like to use these GUIDs in a query, but when I try to JOIN them within Query Design, I get told that I cannot join on Memo fields. I tried creating an expression to convert the field to a Text field: 

Basically expand each column according to what's in the column, and collate the like elements on their own line. (Assume each column is sorted.) I've been doing this manually by playing cut-paste Ginsu chef, but was wondering if there's an automated way? (I have Excel 2007 but will be getting Excel 2010 shortly.) Alternatively, is there another tool better than Excel for this purpose? Thanks for your time. 

I upgraded to Windows 10 recently and I'm getting an NBCore.exe exception box that pops up that says: 

I have two programs that rely on some .dll files. (Wikidpad and Microsoft WebMatrix2.) I was using WikidPad for a while without issue. After I installed WebMatrix2 (which uses IIS Express, I guess), I got a bunch of "Bad Image" dialog boxes of the form: 

To get a good estimate, one thing you can do is copy and paste the text to a .txt file and then read the resulting file size. I've written an AutoHotkey script to make it a little easier. Press Win+C to have a little popup message display the file size of the selected text. 

Yes. If the computer can handle it, you can run multiple virtual machines simultaneously. The easiest configuration would be to have them all use bridged network adapters, so they are on the same subnet as the host. 

This happens when the EOL control characters are not correct. Windows represents newlines with the + . In Notepad++, you can check for these characters by selecting: View > Show Symbols > 

Change the Speed from to a different value and then click Apply. In this case, you want the game to be slower, so make it less than . For example, would run the game slower, at normal speed. 

Note: For either method, if you want to use commands without first creating a batch file, I recommend using the (run and close) or (run and keep open) flags of . For example, you could replace above with 

Select or highlight the variable. Right click > Refactor > Rename... Change the name. Click the button 

No. Currently, the only features available through Firefox Sync's web interface are the following administrative actions: