These devices usually have a bunch of buttons or a dial on the front and they actually physically switch between the different connections and your computer. It's much more old-school, but much easier and cheaper if that's all you need. 

(That's not the exact wording, but it's pretty close. I'm typing this on my other machine while watching the installer run.) I ran Disk Cleanup on the drive, which cleared out the Temp folder and the downloaded/unpacked installer files (in and ), then started the installer again and had no trouble. 

Note that when using the filter, the delay must be specified in milliseconds and must be specified individually for each audio channel. In this example, the audio is stereo (2-channel) so the delay is specified twice. Line by line explanation: 

Note that both of these spaces as described require the use of the subnet mask (a.k.a. ) in order to reach the entire space. However, you describe your subnet masks as set to (a.k.a. ). If there are actually hosts in the entire area, your machine will not be able to access them directly. Instead, it will only be able to access machines that share the same 3rd octet in addition to the first two. In your example, with the gateways set to and , you will not be able to directly access any hosts in the blocks , , , and . Instead, traffic to any of these addresses will go to one of your gateways, whichever happens to be the primary. If your networks really are Class B, you need to change the Subnet Mask entries on your computer to match the required mask for a Class B network. If your networks are actually smaller, you may need to set explicit routes, as others have described. An easy way to check if the problem is routing is to unplug whichever connection is currently working and see if the other one starts to work. Note that you may need to clear routes from the routing table, so view it with and delete anything that doesn't belong with . 

The two networks you describe in your question are configured as Class B networks because there are two "wildcard" octets. 

I bought a ThinkCentre M71e (3134-C4U) with the intention of using it connected to several separate physical networks. I bought a PCIe Network card (SuperMicro AOC-SG-I2) with two additional network ports to use for this purpose. As far as I can tell, this network card should work with no problems - it's a PCIe 2.0 x4 card, which should work in the system's PCIe 2.0 x16 slot. However, the computer does not recognize that the network card is there! To test whether it is an issue with the card, I pulled a similar card (known working HP NC360T) from another computer, and this computer did not recognize it either! What can I do about this? The computer is useless to me without the additional network connection. I noted that, while the specs explicitly say "PCI Express 2.0 x16", the Hardware Maintenance Manual calls it a "PCI Express x16 graphics slot" (emphasis mine). Does this mean that Lenovo deliberately prevents cards other than graphics cards from being recognized in this slot? 

You can technically store the keypair wherever you want, though there are some common ways that it is done. If the data is particularly sensitive and is not going to be needed regularly/constantly, the most secure method of storing your private key is on a flash drive or printed on a piece of paper in a safe or a bank vault. (Note that you can store the public key anywhere you want - it is, after all, a "public" piece of information. If you need the data to be readily accessible, it is not usually practical to store the private key offline in a safe or vault due to the hassle of retrieving it every time. A common location that is often used for key storage is a folder named inside your home directory. (This is the default in OpenSSL on Linux, and is often used on other systems too.) The common practice is to store the key as two files with names that describe them in the following way: for the private key and for the public key. For example, if you use the OpenSSL command line to create and RSA key that identifies you, it will be stored by default in the files and in the directory. In your case, you could name the key files something like and . IMPORTANT: If you store a private key in this way, it is highly recommended that you secure it with a passphrase. This prevents anyone who gets access to your files from being able to use your private key. You may have been prompted to provide a key passphrase when you originally created the keypair; if not, you can add a passphrase to the private key using the OpenSSL command line tools. If you will be doing a lot of sensitive encryption work, you can buy a hardware key-store, called a "Hardware Security Module", abbreviated "HSM", which is designed for secure storage of private keys. Unless you are actually working in the security/encryption industry, this is almost definitely overkill. There are also other hardware solutions, including "Smart Cards" and "USB Crypto Tokens", which are cheaper than a full HSM, but still require some investment in hardware that is likely more than you need. 

I have a lot of extra search engines in Google Chrome, all but one of which were automatically added by Chrome when I used the search form on various websites. For example, typing "youtube" in the address bar prompts me "Press Tab to search YouTube Video Search". Most of the time, this is very useful. However, sometimes I want to search Google for a query that starts with a word that is a search keyword. For example, Chrome's chosen keyword for searching the Chef Supermarket is . This means that I can't search Google for any term that starts with "Chef" because Google automatically jumps to the Chef search. The hack that I used to use to get around this was to preface the keyword with a single space character which prevented Chrome from seeing the first word. However, this doesn't seem to work anymore. I know that I could just change the search keyword for the particular search for "chef" to allow that particular query, but that's fixing the symptom, not the problem. For example, the same problem could happen when searching for "Amazon River". One thing I noticed is that while the text says "Press Tab ...", Chrome actually does the search when I press either Tab or Space. Is there a way to set it to only search on Tab? 

2. The Ribbon The ribbon is extremely powerful because it is context-aware. If you select an image, it will show the Image tab. If you select a table, it will show the table tabs (one for "layout" and the other for "design"). If you select an image inside a table, it will show all of those tabs. That said, the ribbon can be very confusing when you first start - even Microsoft says so. (Note that the site linked here does have some good tutorials.) In my opinion, one of the single most-important things you can do to become a real power user of Microsoft Word is to learn the ribbon. That includes learning the keyboard shortcuts for activating the ribbon, switching between its tabs, and activating the stuff inside them. Most users don't ever bother with learning this and then get stuck looking all over the place for commands that are really in logical spots. To help learn the ribbon, Microsoft has an add-in you can install called "Search Commands" that will help you find where the commands you need are located. You can download it from here. 

I have never seen a tutorial that I liked. That said, there are a few things you can do which will make it easy to become a Word power user: 1. The Microsoft Office Golden Rule The single biggest thing you need to know for proper use of Microsoft Word is this: Use STYLES! Word is designed for you to create a "style" for the document (much like you can do with TeX) and to apply that style to the various parts of your document as applicable. 

Right-click the Windows Logo (Start Button) and click "Run" Type and click "OK" Uncheck "Users must enter a username and password to use this computer." 

To go directly to the proper settings page, type this address in your address bar: . Or to go the long way, do this: 

Technically, yes, you could - it's called datacasting. However, it's not something that you should seriously try to set up unless you have serious practical commercial radio transmitter experience. Some people (PDF) are working on doing exactly that using regular FM radio, and I have spoken to them about many of the issues they face -- here are some important points from that discussion: First of all, you would have spectrum licensing issues. Unless you already own a radio/TV station and have a license, you can't just start broadcasting on the TV band. You would likely have to find some existing TV station to work with. That's doable, but you'd likely have to work pretty hard to convince them of the benefits. Much more importantly, there would not be an easy return path back over the air, because you can't have all the computers. (The paper to which I linked above describes a protocol that is specifically one-way and requires no response from the end user.) First of all, you need some way of receiving requests for data from the user, and you also need a way for the underlying TCP ACK packets to get back. The way that Satellite Internet providers do it is that your data to them travels over the phone line, while their data to you comes through the satellite. You could do the same thing with a phone line, but it's not going to be simple. Additionally, there is the issue of security. Broadcasting your Internet traffic out into the air for all to see is just asking for trouble. You need some kind of encryption to protect your traffic, as well as some kind of authentication to verify that what you are receiving wasn't sent by the pirate station down the block. While Cable and Satellite Internet also have these issues (because they are shared bandwidth systems), they mitigate the former by having your modem filter out traffic that isn't yours and the latter by assuming that no one else has the transmitting equipment. You cannot make either of those assumptions with terrestrial radio. Finally, there is the issue of bandwidth. American Digital TV standards allow for broadcasting up to 19 Mbps per transmitter. If you could dedicate all of that bandwidth for a single client, that would be pretty good. However, if you have multiple clients and you have to multiplex their data on that stream, you'd see a very quick drop-off in network bandwidth. Additionally, if you were working with an active TV station, they would also need a significant portion of that bandwidth for the TV signal itself, leaving you with very little bandwidth for your data. 

If you run your Django application under FastCGI or in mod_wsgi's Daemon mode, then you can run it as a different user than the one Apache is running under. Then, you can completely remove Apache's and World's permission to read any file that you do not want to serve. For example, note that your password file is already not accessible because Apache does not have permissions on it and it is not world-readable. If you create a new user, say for example, and add to the Apache configuration, then you can have the Django application be owned by the user, with its configuration file not world-readable, like the file already is. 

The only change I know of that I have made on my machine is upgrading to the Windows 10 fall update (a.k.a. Threshold 2, a.k.a. update 1511). What is causing Virtual Machines to not work? 

Find the website you are looking for and click the 'X' that appears to the right of its name when you hover over the name with the mouse. 

As mentioned in the comments to your question, this is almost always caused by overdriven and/or dying power components (capacitors, inverter, etc.) in your monitor. I have seen this happen most often on Dell monitors from the BadCaps era. It almost always signals (in my experience) that the monitor doesn't have much useful life left. On these failing monitors, the noise is usually followed (in a few months) by blurring of any long lines of black (such as rows of text), and then followed by the monitor remaining black even when it is powered on and has a signal. The reason that it is specifically with Notepad++ showing these non-printing characters is because the non-printing characters create an image very similar to the horizontal bars on the ScreenTunes page. As an experiment, see if the sound changes in either volume or pitch if you change the font size in Notepad++.