method used in has a parameter named validation_split, which specifies the percentage of data used for evaluating the model which is created after each epoch. After evaluating the model using this amount of data, that will be reported by if you've set verbose to ; moreover, as the documentation clearly specifies, you can use either or . Cross validation data is used to investigate whether your model over-fits the data or does not. This is what we can understand whether our model has generalization capability or not. 

Both cases will work. The point that you have to consider is that you shouldn't use activation in the last layer because your classes have intersection and they are not mutually exclusive. You should employ activation function and there should be two of them which each of them can be one or zero as the output vector. Consider that in this case you should not compare each activation to the other. Each one shows the probability of existence of the corresponding object, cat or dog. For your case I suggest you to provide images which don't have either and in some cases have both. The former is more important. Because if you don't provide negative labels, not existing, the net always try to make something out of nothing. Means the net always try to flag similar patters as cats or dogs. 

Consider how cosine similarity is calculated. Cosine similarity takes the dot product of two real vectors, and divides this value by the product of their magnitudes. By the Euclidean dot product identity, this is equal to the cosine of the angle between the two vectors. The upshot of this is a value between 1 and -1. When the value is 1, those vectors are pointing in exactly the same direction. When the value is -1, the vectors are pointing in exactly the opposite direction (one is the negation of the other). When the value is 0, the vectors are perpendicular to one another; in other words, when the value is zero, these two vectors are as unalike in the feature space as it is possible to get. The dot product is the sum of all the element-wise products of your two vectors. The bigger those numbers, the more they contribute to the cosine similarity. Now, take any feature in your vector. The fifth, say. If you set this to zero in one of your vectors, the fifth element in the element-wise product of the two vectors will also be zero, regardless of its value in the other vector. When you sum up all these element-wise products, the fifth element will not have any impact on the summation. As a result, setting a value in your feature vector to zero means it doesn't make any contribution to the cosine similarity. This is why setting a value to zero in a feature vector is equivalent to not including the feature in the calculation of cosine similarity, and does not does not distort cosine similarity. 

"Early Stopping" is the concept which needs to be used here. As mentioned in wikipedia about early stopping, 

The answer to your question is "Transfer Learning". Since the datasets "cat and dog" and "mouse" are quite similar as both are images. In DeepNet for recognising "cats and dogs", any deep learning network in its early layers learn to identify low-level features like edges, etc. It learns high-level feature like eyes, ears, etc in few further layers and in very later layers of DeepNet, it starts to recognise the intended object. In DeepNet for recognising "dogs", similar pattern will follow. On comparing these two, one may find that first few layers of DeepNet in both cases produce similar low-level features like edges, etc. Hence, first few layers of the DeepNet learned from "cats" can be used as base layers for the DeepNet for "mouse" detection. This technique is called transfer learning. To apply transfer learning, dataset on which DeepNet has been trained on and dataset on which this technique can be applied must be similar. This transfer learning video by Andrew Ng would also be helpful in understanding the concept 

Labeling data is not always an easy task. There are occasion that the data in hand does not have label and you need to make a model using them. You have to find the similarities and differences in your input data. Clustering approaches try to find these similarities and differences to find similar data. Also they are used as a pre-processing before doing supervised classification. In cases that the input data does not have any label, employing clustering approaches can be a way to label the data and use them for training supervised models. 

I've not seen any paper about that but based on what I've faced till now, normalizing data intuitively is just for assigning same importance to different features which their raw values do not have a same range. Take a look at here. Also, you can take a look at here that professor says that you just need to employ a technique and it's not really important which technique. Also, take a look at here. 

When you have 32 feature maps with height and width equal to 100 and the depth of each equal to one it means that you have 32 planes, a common jargon among vision people, with 100 by 100 entries. You can set the height and width of the next layer and they can be arbitrary. You can also set the number of feature maps but the depth of each feature map would be equal to the number of feature maps of the previous layer. So it should be 16 * 9 * 9 * 32 if you set height and width equal to 9 and the number of feature maps to 16. As you can see in 16 * 9 * 9 * 32, 32 is located at the end, this is called channels last. You can not set the depth, because it should be equal to the number of channels, features maps, of the previous layer. 16 * 9 * 9 * 32 means that you have 16 feature maps of dimension 9 * 9 * 32, so the output of each feature map would be the member-wise product of all the outputs of the feature maps of the previous layer and each of 9 * 9 * 32 kernels. Consequently the result would be 16 planes. I highly recommend you taking a look at here. 

Depends on content, but I would probably go for "observed" (vs. "unobserved"). A suitable direct antonym of "missing" might be "extant". 

If you have a large enough sample size, you can indeed carry this out the way you propose. For five events, you have 120 ($^5P_5$) possible permutations of the order of events. This allows you to run a logistic regression with 120 dummy independent variables, each of which corresponds to a permutation of your order of events. The F-test of this regression will function as a significance test to see if there is any difference in frequency of your outcome between different orderings of events. This does require a large sample size, however. A good rule of thumb is at least 20 observations per independent variable in a General Linear Model, so if you have a few thousand samples, we'd expect this model to fit reasonably well. This does assume you have a relatively small number of events. Five seems manageable, but as your number of events increases, you quickly run into problems as your number of independent variables grows factorially. 

At epoch > 280 in your graph, validation accuracy becomes lesser than training accuracy and hence it becomes a case of overfitting. In order to avoid overfitting here, training further is not recommended. However you may choose to train the model beyond the epoch where training and validation accuracy matches if the resulting validation accuracy is sufficient for the particular problem you are working on. 

If I have generated features using state of the art feature engineering methods of a dataset, can I use it for any kind of algorithm to build the model apart from few modifications in the features so as to plug in different algorithm? Is there any dependency of algorithm while building features from dataset? 

With this understanding, if features are generated once for a dataset, it may be used for any relevant algorithm with corresponding adaption. 

Hence, it is suggested to bring all features to same scale smaller enough to train easily. Below link also discusses similar concept. $URL$ 

what are some ways through which I can generate the negation of sentence such that output sentence reflects the negation of original sentence? If the sentence is : That is an apple. Then, the expected negation could be : That is not an apple. Sentence: Rita is so hot. Negation: Rita is boring.