If you are using VMware, a much better way is to use the tools built into VMware to reclaim any unused space on the virtual drive. I used this to reduce the size of the virtual disk from 28 gigabytes down to 13 gigabytes. Your mileage may vary. When I tried using , it actually increased the size of the virtual drives to 30 gigabytes, which was its maximum size. See the VMware website and Compact a Virtual Hard Disk, which is under . Update Sometimes, the GUI tools are not quite as reliable as the command line tools. I have run into issues where the GUI tools fail, but the command line tools work just fine. Here are the options for : 

If you want to search for files "less than" simply change the script. For each result, right click on the file and select "Explore Here". Rename the directory path to shorten it, then repeat the search until there are no results at all. -----start file named "max path length search.js"---- 

MyUSBonly from AC Element Company and StopUSB from EverStrike will also work. Both of them ask for a password if you want to mount a new, unknown USB device. To be honest, both could be better designed, but at least they do the job. 

The contractor needs to be able to initialize the connection himself, from his end. The recording needs to be in realtime. The video must be recorded at the server end. 

I've run into a brick wall trying to install MySQL v5.5 on my machine. My PC is Windows 7 x64, Enterprise edition. MySQL installs fine, but when I run the "MySQL Instance Configuration Wizard", it pauses forever on the step "Start Service" (I can let it run for 30 minutes with no response). If I go into services, I see that the "MySQL" service hasn't started, and if I try to start it, it says "Windows could not start MySQL Service on Local Computer. Error 1067: The process terminated unexpectedly." I've tried the following: 

A possible solution would be to switch from using webfaction to using the Google Mail SMTP servers to send your mail. Since Google servers are reliable and free, you'll never have any problems. Here's what to do: 

I guess the subject says it all: would switching to Windows HPC Server 2008 R2 have any effect on average network latency ping times? Even if it shaved a few milliseconds off the time, I'd be happy - but is that realistic? 

Mount the drive as per normal. Right click on the drive, and turn on file sharing. Alter the permissions for the share to remove "write" permission. Leave "read" permission enabled. 

Use a utility such as HDtune from www.hdtune.com. It allows you to run tests on drives to see their bulk transfer rate and seek time. I'm sure that there's a free version as well (have a hunt around for it). 

I'm working with a contractor in a different country. We need some method to add his machine to the local network, using a point-to-point VPN. Unfortunately, Hamachi, while very easy to use, creates stability problems as he is using Windows 7. Whats the best method for us to use? 

I am trying to set up a FTP server under Windows XP. Everything works fine with FireFox, but not with GetRight or IE. Any ideas on how I can get it working with IE and GetRight? System Setup I've tried both XLight and Gene6 FTP. On my router, I'm forwarding ports 30100 to 30110 to my local machine which is 192.168.1.64. I have configured the listening port to be 30100. I have configured the PASV port range to be 30101 to 30110. I have set up an anonymous FTP account. On another computer with an external internet connection (via WiFi to the next building), I can browse to ftp://91.195.X.X:30100/. Everything works fine with FireFox, but not with GetRight and IE. 

Right click on a directory, choose "Select Left Side to Compare". Right click on another directory, choose "Compare to". It lists all of the files in two vertical panes, showing the ones that are missing/changed/etc. You can then drill down into each pair of files to see the changes at a file level. 

There are loads of videos on YouTube which describe how to do this, the one that I successfully used was Set up a Mirrored Array in Windows 7. Update It is possible to avoid this error, see the answer from @CyberPonk. 

It has quite a nice feature: if any files are different between a pair of directories, it changes the color of the icons. This allows you to instantly find any files that are different in the directory tree. 

Here's how I fixed the problem: Step 1: By default, its impossible to find out the reason why the service is failing to start. So, tell it to start in non-service mode, and pipe errors to the console: 

I'm copying 600GB of data from external hard drive A to external hard drive B. Windows Server 2008 R2 has notified me that 100 files have filenames that are too long (i.e. >255 chars). Is there a utility that can allow me to search for these filenames, and manually shorten them? Shane. 

You can also use the "Reliability and Performance Monitor" that is available under Windows Server 2008. As you can see below, it automatically keeps a record of the reliability of the server, and assigns it a "reliability score" out of 10. This score starts at 10, and drops if the server experiences any crashes or unexpected shutdowns. It even keeps a record of which programs were installed, and when, so you can diagnose if an installed program seemed to cause more faults. You can also set it up to continuously log the CPU usage of programs, to see which program is causing the 100% CPU utilization. 

Solution: From: $URL$ "You can set the USB port status to Read only or Readable/Writable with Autorun Virus Remover ..." Conclusion: if you place your hard drive in an external hard drive case with a USB cable, you can ensure that its mounted as read only. According to Software Informer there is over 4,078 people with this utility installed on their computer as of 2009-07-07. Note of caution: when this utility is installed for the very first time it scans external hard drives. Suggest a thorough test flight on another external USB drive before committing your life to it. 

... then reinstall. The MySQL v5.5 installer has a bug: if you uninstall MySQL v5.5 to fix a problem with a bad installation, it fails to clean up C:\ProgramData\MySQL, meaning that it is impossible to install MySQL v5.5 on that machine, from that moment on, without deleting this rogue directory. Hints: 

Now, do all of your access through the UNC file share, e.g. \computer\mydrive - RO\ I use this trick to provide an absolute guarantee that my file backup program won't inadvertently stomp on the data that its meant to be backing up. 

In my experience, FileZilla is not as robust as you would expect. Sure, its open source, but this doesn't necessarily mean that it is as polished as you would like. Little things such as the timeout could be set incorrectly. Suggest running Software Informer, and searching for "FTP server". It will list the most popular FTP servers in use, right now, by developers and users worldwide. Recommend: - Cerberus FTP Server with 4.5 stars and 325 users; - Gene6 FTP Server with 5 stars and 150 users; - GuildFTPd FTP Server Deamon with 5 stars and 23 users Avoid: - XLight as it seems to be unstable; - Titan as its unstable I really like Gene6 FTP Server. I have it running on my machine serving files right now, it works like a dream. 

Under Windows 8.1, if I format a drive to ReFS, then add a mirror using Disc Management, will it self heal if there is a bad sector on one of the drives? Or do I have to use Storage Spaces to take advantage of the self healing capabilities of ReFS? 

We have a contractor working offsite. We would like to set everything up so that his screen is recorded to our Windows Server 2008 R2 machine in real time. We've been using TeamViewer, but we've run into limitations. What would you recommend? p.s. Constraints: 

I'm running Windows Server 2008 x32 under VMware Workstation v6.5.2. VMwareUser.exe process crashes regularly, and uses 95% of CPU until its shut down manually. When I shut down VMwareUser, I suddenly lose the ability to copy/paste between the host and guest OS's (I can't live without this so I reboot). Any idea on how to prevent VMwareUser.exe crashing? 

I'd recommend UltraCompare or SyncBackSE. UltraCompare allows you to compare directories full of files, then drill down to compare individual files. SyncBackSE if quite easy to use. It compares two directories, gives a list of files that have changed, and offers the option to synchronize the directories. Its pre-configured out of the box, but if you want to do anything unique it has a whole bunch of configurable options. I use SyncBackSE to backup my files to Amazon S3 (and Gladinet to mount Amazon S3 to a drive letter). 

I once had this same problem as well. It turned out to be the hard drive controller on the motherboard. However, in this case it definitely sounds like a dud hard drive. Hard drives tend to hang onto life by marking sectors bad, transparently, in the background. When sectors finally start to go bad at an OS level the drive ends up expiring very quickly. 

Here is an example of shrinking a disk. This command line worked, in spite of the same command from the GUI failing: 

Is there any service which runs in the background, and does the job of prime95 (i.e. it tests server CPU/RAM for integrity now and again)? Regards, Shane. p.s. The reason I ask: we recently had some bad RAM on our server, which ended up slowly corrupting all of our business files. A file would be copied into memory, it would be corrupted in RAM, and copied back onto the RAID 1 hard drive in a corrupted state. 

The first method (eliminate the source of the unavailable UNC network share) is always going to be the most efficient, as it guarantees an extremely quick response time. Thus, to fix this problem, I identified the source of the 30-second timeouts that were freezing my system: my NAS (Network Attached Storage) device. Never buy a cheap Netgear Stora NAS. For about two months, your computer will freeze randomly for 30 seconds. This will inevitably result in you telling the problem to your mates, followed by uncontrollable sobbing into your beer with frustration. 

This solution has been working well for me for a while. And as a bonus, you also get to use gmail to send company messages from your domain, without the unprofesional look of having a @gmail.com attached to the end of your email address. 

My machine is working 100% in every other way. InfiniDB (a MySQL compatible database) installs 100%, as does Visual Studio 2010, Microsoft SQL Server, etc, etc. Your advice on how to work around this? p.s. Here is the screen it got stuck on for 15 minutes until I killed the process: 

p.p.s. I've been a programmer for 15 years. I understand how programmers work, its more to see his coding style and to keep the investors happy, rather than anything else. I trust my contractor. 

I was trying to create a mirrored drive in Disk Management, but I kept on getting this error: "All disks holding extents for a given volume must have the same sector size, and the sector size must be valid." 

Very rarely, our server runs low on RAM (and crashes) due to a certain rogue app that gobbles up all of the RAM. To guard against this happening again, is there any way to configure the built in Performance Monitor to send us a warning email if RAM crosses the 80% use threshold? 

We ended up setting up port forwarding on the router for the specific services we needed, and Hamachi 2 while we got the port forwarding working. Hamachi 2 is slow (seems to be limited to 8kbyte/sec), but it always works (unlike Hamachi 1, the subject of the original question). 

Google "undelete for Linux", and you'll find something such as $URL$ You can use this to undelete any documents that you want to recover. Take a step to avoid this in the future. What you want is a method to make a copy of the partition, something like Acronis TrueImage for Linux. If you run Acronis TrueImage for Linux, it copies a complete clone of the hard drive to a file (which you can safe offline for safety), so you can always restore from the bare metal if anything goes wrong in the future. 

Put the attached script somewhere on your hard drive. Open FileLocator Pro Go to the scripting tab Activate the 'Filename' script and select the path to the script Put the value 240 in the 'Custom' field Make sure the engine field is set to "JScript" Click Search The result box will list all files where the pathname > 240 chars in length. 

I am using Squid v2.7. I am getting lots of TCP_MISS messages in the log, and very few TCP_HIT. What does this mean? p.s. Here is a sample of the log: 

Aha! Found it. Searched for "msrvc" in the registry, and it pointed to "C:\Program Files (x86)\ssrvc\msrvc.exe:*:Enabled:USB aware Client". I ended up installing (then uninstalling) "USB Lock" from Advanced Systems International a while ago. This program was so incredibly badly designed that its still monkeying with my home PC, 6 months later. I had to reboot into safe mode then delete the rogue files that it was infesting my system with. Update: Ended up reinstalling Windows to get rid of that buggy app. My advice? Don't touch it, unless you're into that suffering thing. 

We have a server with 16GB of RAM. The memory manager is very aggressive in trimming back the Working Set for a particular process, which is resulting in a lot of soft page faults which is slowing the process down and introducing latency. Are there any settings we can change in the registry to force the Dynamic Memory Manager to be less aggressive with trimming the Working Set? We wouldn't mind if the server devoted 80% of its RAM to the Working Set of the processes (its only using 2GB at the moment). 

The problem is that I was starting with a drive full of data, and wanted to add a mirror of said drive. This will not always work, and the error it gives is meaningless at best, and misleading at worst. A solution is to start with two unallocated volumes, and select "New Mirrored Volume": 

If I type "netstat", I can see a list of IP addresses that my PC is connected to. If I start with an IP address, how do I find the process that has opened the connection to said IP address?