This can be done with ANY kind of Pi The least-expensive solution is to use the Pi Zero. The text of this link is way too long to post here, but the Zero can be any kind of HID. Keyboard, mouse, flash drive, camera, whatever you can think of. Turning your Raspberry PI Zero into a USB Gadget 

You didn't make it clear enough about why publish isn't working. But from that screenshot I suspect it is expecting an ftp server to be installed on your Pi. That can be done, but it is here is a workaround that might work for you, using native Pi stuff, plus Apache: Instead of using publish, I would first try transferring the files directly. Save your files on your hard drive, obviously. Verify that apache2 is installed on the pi by putting its IP address into your browser like so: 

The first one will tell you if your wlan interface(s) have an address The second tells you if you are connected to a router or not. If it insists on connecting to another router then you want to edit this file: 

Ubuntu can sometimes use a default login of: login name: ubuntu password blank But usually you won't see that unless running from a LiveCD. Full installations ask you to set up a user. Then while logged in as that user you can set the root password: 

May 2018, This is still acccurate in concept but the procedure has changed with later versions: Firstly, the files should be directly edited in vi or nano or leafpad or emacs - whichever is your favorite text editor. The username pi is not mentioned in this file: 

UPDATED: Removed my first comment regarding TX/RX and USB, based on the comments. I learned something through this experience, which is what I have wanted by participating in this forum. Thanks for your time to give thoughtful comments, @goldilocks. 

After reviewing the comments where the SD card works fine in another Pi, the answer to your question is clearly that the problem is with the Pi. It is always best that Raspberry Pis are operating on power supplies tested to work with them. Since it is possible the power supply damaged the original Pi I would not recommend swapping them to find out whether that is the origin of the problem. 

Turns out it is not a good idea to turn loose on a nicely-tuned system. It is too unpredictable and yes it can break Raspbian. I had to re-image a SD card after running it, to start over. Also, when using and options with rsync it minimizes the data transfers after the initial run. So rsync basically has solved the problem after all was said and done. 

then reboot them. Voila, the systems are now all using the NIST/NBS Master Clock to synchronize. You can verify that it is working at Level 1 by using this command: 

NEXT DAY: Used Win32DiskImager to make a new image of that system from the new card which is the same size/architecture as all the others. 

It changes your mouse pointer into a padlock icon - then waits for you to enter your password and press Enter The best part is that active screens continue updating (such as Task Manager or htop or wcron), until it blanks. 

The Raspberry Pi 3 USB ports are USB 2.0 but will work with a USB 3 drive. The 20 second wait might be normal as part of the boot process. The drive itself probably does not begin spinning until it receives a command to wake it up. It is good that the drive is self-powered. Also good that it is EXT4 format. The size you mention is not a problem. On my Rpi3 my external drives automatically show up under /mount/ I do not need to manually mount them. You can certainly set up symlinks using the ln command to make the whole drive, or particular subdirectories, show up anywhere else in the file system you like. 

The normal unix commands work with Linux, like so: init 0 will shut it down so it is safe to pull the plug. init 6 will reboot. Unlike unix, there is no real need to do sync; sync; before shutting down. But simply pulling the plug can cause errors, so be sure to use shutdown or init 0 before disconnecting power. If you do happen to interrupt power unexpectantly, use fsck to check for and/or fix any problems that might arise. There might be a case to do the full sync; sync; sync; sleep 30; halt if you have an external file system that does not unmount cleanly. You'd know if this is a problem by running fsck on external filesystems right after booting. If it is finding problems then you might want to do the whole thing. But I have never seen this happen with my Rpi3. 

Create a generic mount point under your login. Add a directory for this particular share. Perform the link 

And it takes care of any erroneous data before the next scheduled string. This can include partial strings or even multiple lines. This works regardless of whether the port is on /dev/ttyUSB0 or /dev/ttyACM0 or variations thereof. 

You can clearly see that when power came back on, it booted but went back in time some. Then you can see it jump forward to the correct time as soon as it gets an update from time.nist.gov 

I've got multiple data-gathering Rpi3s and they all connect to a router just for them, which is a subnet of my main network. One Rpi is master and communicates with the others to gather all their data by using scp. They each have a USB memory stick and a single USB WiFi adapter. It has been fairly straight-forward setting them up using wpa-supplicant, the GUI icon and wicd-curses. They all have WLAN0 shut off. Except for one of them. It has decided to swap WLAN0 with WLAN1. I can't figure out how or why. It is one of the longer-range ones, with a better antenna on the USB WiFi dongle to work at a distance. I assigned two different addresses to the adapters and scanning from the office I only see one of them - the one the unit thinks is on WLAN0. When I RDP into it using the WLAN0 address, iwconfig shows I am on the right router, authenticated. ifconfig says that I am coming in on WLAN0's address. I can't see WLAN1 from my workstation nor can it log into the piNet router. When I disconnect the antenna from the USB adapter I lose the connection. If I tell it to down WLAN0 I have to bring it inside to my HDMI monitor, mouse and keyboard to turn it back on. The GUI and wicd-curses and ifconfig all agree that it thinks I am coming in on WLAN0. It isn't stopping me from using it, now that I get the picture. But if there is a way to unconfuse it, I'd like to know about it. If not, I'll just leave it as it is rather than start over or by cloning one of the others. I'd lose data if I did that. Any ideas?