The %APPDATA% is stored on an external server on my network (that I can ping to without problems). I am missing a ton of PS cmdlets too, which I'm presuming are stored in '*.format.ps1xml' I tried finding the directory in which format.ps1xml is supposed to reside on the external server and it's not even created. Can someone tell me where to start? 

I just set up an Exchange server to replace my DeskNow mail server. I want to start testing my internet mail exchange of my Exchange server. I can only set the MX records on my DNS up to my one external IP address so I was thinking that I could set up a firewall rule on my internet-facing firewall that port forwarded the smtp packets to two different servers. My question is: If I do that, will that mean that the smtp packets will be forwarded to just the first internal IP on the list? Or does it mean that the packet will be cloned and sent to both IPs? 

I'm trying to use the in-built Remote Assistance (RA) software in Windows 7 to support my users. I initiate a RA session with the user and ask to remotely control their desktop. They tick a little check box that says something to the effect of 'allow helper to respond to UAC prompts' and it pops up with a UAC prompt. The user cannot respond to the UAC prompt because they're not a local administrator - I am. Isn't that what that little check box is for??? I've found this on TechNet from back in '07 on Vista. From what I've found, I could disable UAC (terrible idea) or make all my users local administrators on their computers (yet another terrible idea). I'm hoping that MS has fixed this little oversight in Windows 7. Remote Assistance is completely useless to me if I can't respond to UAC prompts with my username and password 

Ask your ISP for a static IP address if you really need it. You may have to pay, or not, depending on the ISP. That's the simplest way. Other than that, you could restrict access to your ISPs subnet so that any IP address you are assigned will work, but then so will all the rest of the ISPs customers on that subnet. Which maybe you can live with - I wouldn't. I would say if you want to really secure your SSH access, use certificates for logging in instead of passwords. A 1024 bit password will take a long time to crack... 

I need to change the page a user gets to when navigating to a sharepoint 2007 team site. What we are trying to achieve for this teamsite is a different page layout to the default. One of the following two things would probably sort this out for me, but I can't figure out how to do either: 

We do this with Barracuda Network's Web Filter, which can be integrated with Active Directory. You can also assign certain IP addresses specific permissions - it is easy enough to make sure the same computer always has the same IP address on your network via DHCP or plain old static configuration. We chose this because we liked the reporting it does, and we got a good deal. There are plenty of competing web filter solutions, hardware, software, open source, and even cloud based Software as a Service solutions, that integrate with Active Directory - if they do that then they almost 100% do what you need. 

I have a Catalyst 2900 that's sending out an STP packet about once ever 1-2 seconds. Is that excessive? 

It keeps telling me that ‘The specified network password is not correct’Is there a step that I'm missing? 

I have an HP LaserJet 4 Plus that I'd like to be able to map (TCP/IP) to my users. I have to give a location for the printer so that the client computer knows where to find the driver. This would be no problem if I add the x86 printer drivers to the Print server properties section of my server and pointed the GPO to the printer installed on my (x64) server. The problem arises when I go to HP's site to find the .inf file required to install this additional x86 driver. The site tells me to just use the in-built drivers that come with Windows. I've done that in order to install the printer to my server, but it gives me x64 drivers. I need to install the x86 drivers. When I attempt to do this using the in-built drivers (right-click printer > printer properties > sharing > Additional Drivers...) it always asks me for a location of the driver that I wish to install. Where are the built-in Windows drivers that are used so I can point this dialog box to that or Where can I get the x86 .inf for this printer? 

Can anyone advise on the best way of doing this? Is setting up a dedicated SMTP server on the Exchange server (not a separate physical server) the right way of going about this? EDIT: Note this is for Exchange 2003. There is a post on setting this up in Exchange 2007 which appears to have recognised the frequent requirement to do what I need. It doesn't give much detail on 2003 though. Can anyone expand? 

We have had some issues with accessing certain things through the ISP used by one of our branch offices. They have asked us to allow them SNMP polling access to our Cisco ASA 5505 in order to check bandwidth use there. I am not sure exactly what they expect to get from this, but I want to help them solve our problem without being disruptive. So my question is, what is the risk of allowing our ISP SNMP polling access to our ASA? 

I have a great VBscript which will list all my Exchange 2003 mailboxes with a size under a given size. I have another great VBscript which accepts a list of users and sets the quotas for each of those users. Can anyone fill in the gap, and point me in the direction of a method (VBscript or otherwise) by which I can set the quota for all users who have a mailbox under a certain limit? I'm trying to reduce my mailbox limits, and want to start by enforcing that limit for users who are already below it. That way the bigger problem of getting people below the new limit doesn't get any bigger! Update: Thanks to Evan Anderson I found that I need to convert my GUID to another format for use in an LDAP lookup. Microsoft have a knowledge base article that explains how to do this, but I don't have GUIDs in the required format. There is another kb article that describes "how to convert a string formatted GUID to a hexadecimal string form for use when querying the active directory", but the script throws an error. Update 2: Ok - forget the VB script. I found a more succinct way to get my data using PowerShell. 

My boss sent out an email from my Exchange 2010 org and attached a PDF and a Word doc to it. He came back the next day and told me that some of the 8 or 10 people that received this email could open up the attachments no problem. The other 2 or 3 people, could not. One of these people who could not open the attachment, went so far as to call Comcast (his email service provider) and ask them where his attachments went. Comcast told this person that when they received the email, the attachment was 0 bytes in size. This may sound like more of a rant than a question but I'm genuinely concerned. Is there any possible way that something could have gone wrong on my end that sent out the email to some with the attachment and to some without? 

A search for that error led me here but none of the solutions seem to be of any help (or maybe I'm not using the solutions correctly?) Has anyone remedied this error before? Can someone point me in the correct direction? 

I have written a Sharepoint 2007 web part that sends a field from a form to a specified email address. I have got the form working as I require, but at present it can only send to internal email addresses. Sharepoint's email functions use SMTP to send to our Exchange 2003 server, but because our Exchange server is configured to prevent relaying, if the To: address is not at a local domain, it won't deliver the mail. I don't want to open up our Exchange server to be a completely open relay. What I want is to allow my Sharepoint servers to send mail to addresses outside our domain. The following seem possible: 

You definitely need some static IPs (for your DHCP server for example), but you can do static allocation via DHCP using MAC addresses for servers. The benefit of that is that you have all your IP address configuration in one place - but you create a dependency on your DHCP server. Say you have a power outage, and for some reason your DHCP server is the last to come back up on recovery - you then end up with none of your servers having any IP address which wouldn't have happened if they were static. Some of them will "acquire" 169.254.x.x type addresses and may be able to talk to each other but not the outside world - others will not get anything. You turn up in the morning after this has happened, and you have a lot of work to do! So I think static for servers is good (keep decent records!), and dynamic via DHCP for clients. Maybe for printers and other non critical network devices, assignment by MAC address is worthwhile, since the interface for setting their IP addresses may be a bit obscure. You'd have to get pretty large for the admin benefits of assigning everything via DHCP to be of particular benefit IMHO. 

I have a colocation facility with my main firewall in it. It has a bunch of site-to-site VPN tunnels built from the main firewall to the firewalls that are in the remote facilities. I want to replace that main firewall with a Cisco ASA but I want to reduce downtime. I want to put the ASA in and configure VPN tunnels to the new firewalls in the remote facilities without taking down the VPN tunnels that are already created on the old firewall. I was thinking that I would split a switch into two VLANs and hook the uplink and the outside interfaces of both firewalls to one VLAN and then the inside interfaces of both firewalls to the other VLAN. But then it hit me that I need a public IP address to set up a VPN and both firewalls can't have the same public IP address on their outside interfaces... So what's a guy to do? How can I put a second firewall in the heart of my network and still keep the original up and running? 

And any other things that you veterans out there are thinking 'man, I wish someone would have told me that before I started using SC for the first time' All help is much appreciated :) 

I am shipping a bunch of ESXi 5.1 servers to remote offices where they will be powered via APC UPS. I would like to have the UPS trigger a shutdown of the connected server - I would then rely on the ESXi configuration to take care of the shutdown/suspension of the VMs hosted on it. I can see that APC have a solution documented using their PowerChute Network Shutdown, but this involves setting up an extra server per office, and requires network cards on each UPS. We are generally using UPS without a network card (e.g. Back-UPS Pro) - they come with a USB connector, and they are readily available in the locations where our offices are. How can I connect a UPS to a ESXi host via USB, then have ESXi detect a power outage and then act accordingly? Has anyone managed to do this. 

I don't think the VM aspect matters here at all. You want to check some Windows files, so do as you would for any server, physical or not. Not sure if it is the best way but SCCM may allow you to do a lot of this centrally. A roll your own approach should also work, with a script that searches for files and versions, or perhaps WMI. 

I set up my folder redirection with the "Grant Users Exclusive Rights to ..." checked. Now I'm trying to get to someone's AppData folder to fix a Firefox profile issue and I can't. What I want to know: if I uncheck "Grant Users Exclusive Rights to ..." in my GPO and let it propegate, will that give administrators access to those folders? 

This should be very simple. I have my Documents folders redirected to a share called //dc/documents. It creates a folder under this share for each person and then creates a folder under that for My Documents. The security permissions on this //dc/documents share are as follows: 

Can anyone tell me how to break output of a show command in cisco ios? Say I don't want to see all of 'show run' and I got the info I need, what keys can I press to stop it from printing the rest of the output? 

It still asks me about running the script, but at least it gives me an option to run it. Execution-Policy = RemoteSigned somhow didn't work. 

I'm redirecting appdata, my docs and desktop folders to a server using a GPO based on what facility they're usually at. This brings up a problem for users who bounce between multiple locations. Firefox profiles are stored in appdata so it takes forever to go to another facility to get the Firefox profile so that it can start. And after two to three minutes of waiting for Firefox to load, it runs so slowly that it's almost unusable I want to remedy this with DFS but I don't want to have a hellish transition period. Right now the GPO for facility1 is set to redirect the folders to and the GPO for facility2 is set to redirect the folders to . I know I'll need to change these settings to the DFS namespace that I create. I'll need to add and to the DFS namespace and change the GPO redirection settings to redirect appdata to . Writing it down here makes it seem really easy though; will that be all I have to do? Will the GPO setting direct to the UserName folders in the DFS namespace correctly without me having to move anything? Will the users see any hiccups at all? Or will it just magically replicate? I'd appreciate any feedback and tips from anyone who's gone through this (non-dfs folder redirection to dfs folder redirection) transition before.