So, we assumed Group Policy was to blame. On going through all GPO's there is use of User Rights Assignment, Restricted Group Access or Local Users and Groups Assignment. We have also gone through all login scripts and nothing is set there either. On checking the ADDS logs we can see that replication is working as it should. It's also worth mentioning that Site1-DC01 holds no FSMO roles nor is it a GC. We are stumped as to how it gets re-added. Can anyone point out what we're missing? 

Now resolved, this worked for me: Cleared all Winbind caches and flushed Net cache, remember to take a backup before deleting anything! Stop the Winbind and Samba services: 

Attempted Resolutions I have stopped winbind and smb and cleared the winbind cache (winbindd_cache.tdb & winbindd_cidmap.tdb) the started them again - no joy I have started winbind with -n to perform straight lookups - no joy Unfortunately this is a production server so I can't get too drastic with it and I am unable to replicate the problem on any other server including a test server I built using the same configs. I'm fairly convinced it is not winbind after the above test but am at a loss as to why the user won't resolve. I can run and get the users SID then run and see: Key: IDMAP/SID2UID/S-1-5-21-746745685-249376194-4547331-1137 Timeout: Tue Apr 2 17:30:32 2013 Value: 1283 0 Key: IDMAP/UID2SID/12830 Timeout: Tue Apr 2 17:30:32 2013 Value: S-1-5-21-746745685-249376194-4547331 -1137 This shows the correct UID (12930) so the server can find him in AD and pull his Unix Attributes. I can run and it returns it successfully as I then tried and restarted smb and winbind, this did not fix it either. I still can't the user nor and therefore the user cannot log in nor access samba shares as the server can't resolve them. The infuriating thing is that all other users work including newly created ones! ... Can anyone help? I'm stuck! ... Basic details are: 

When email with header as below comes to hotmail, it is put into spam folder. May be this is because of X-AUTH-Result: FAIL or X-SID-Result: FAIL? Or maybe the reason is different?How can I fix this? 

I have 2 domain connected to my server IP. Files for one domain are in /var/www/firstdomain.com folder, files for the second are in /var/www/seconddomain.com folder. I would like to process the first domain by nginx and the second domain by apache without port changes, they both should be run on 80 port. I tried to set firstdomain:80 to listen option for Apache and seconddomain:80 option for nginx, but it seeems that such configuration does not work, because they still are using the same port. I think that the right way is to use nginx as main server and proxyfy all requests that go to seconddomain.com to apache, but cannot find how can I do this. I tried to run Apache on 8080, but don't know what shall I add to location statement to make in work: 

I'm going to move to dedicated server from shared hosting. I setup nameservers on xname.org for my domain, added A record. Now I need to change nameservers to ns0.xname.org., ns1.xname.org. But firstly I would like to check somehow that all will work fine after name servers change. Can I check somewhere that setup of nameservers on xname.org is correct? Updated according to @Olipro answer Here is the result of dig 

This server runs the same config as the others on that site and those work perfectly, so I know they are not the problem. It's as if the server simply does not like the user SID or something similar and will not look him up through the standard methods. Let me know if you need more info. Thanks 

I have a problem that has got me going round in circles. We have 14 Centos 6 AD integrated servers using Samba/Winbind with idmap_ad (security = ads, idmap backend = ad), this setup is running perfectly in 13 of them. Problem The problem lies with one server and one user. From the problem box you simply cannot resolve one particular user. This user resolves from all other servers. Results when trying to resolve on problem server: 

We're having a strange problem that we can't fathom out. We have inherited a 2003 FFL/DFL domain that has a mix of 2008 R2 and 2003 DC's. The Workstation Admins group was in Builtin\Administrators, not great I know. We removed said group from the elevated permissions only to find it had returned the next day. Checking the permissions on the group Builtin\Aministrators only Domain Admins can affect it, as it should be. We used the repadmin to track down when the change happened: 

The logs seem to show the email bouncing between home and remote servers several times before the failure message finally shows up. However, I thought the setting told postfix only to relay email for those domains and just deliver to internet anything else? If I REMOVE from my remote server, then I can now send emails to the outside world from my internal server and they get delivered and relayed properly, but any incoming emails stop at my remote server because there's no relay setup, and the users aren't setup on the remote server, so delivery is met with failure: 

Shown under 'type'. Oh, FYI: the md0, md1, etc. is not the RAID level, but rather the individual partition on the RAID, just like you have /dev/sd0, /dev/sd1, /dev/hd1, etc. 

with the above configuration, I am able to receive email from the internet and have it relayed through my remote server, over my VPN and back to my home server and have it land in the respective user's mailbox, no matter the doamin. However, trying to mail out from my home server out to the internet is met with a delivery failure: 

I heard from various sorts that Google was inaccessible from parts of the Middle East, South America and some Southeast Asia countries yesterday. Has connectivity been restored for your users? I would shrug it off as DNS issues but could be wrong. 

After a lot of searching around, it doesn't appear to be possible, I have attacked it in a different manner using PowerShell for updating normal AD accounts to Unix 'enables' accounts. 

I do not want to give the group "Full Control" of the OU's as per other threads, this is not an adequate answer, I do not wish to give the group this much control. I should point out that the setup works perfectly as a domain admin for obvious reasons. Any help will be gratefully received. 

We have several Linux servers that are AD integrated, all our DC's are Server 2008R2 running at 2003 DFL and FFL with MSSFU installed. I wish to delegate the population of the UNIX Attributes tab to an AD group for our Service Desk. I have delegated read, write and read all, write all permissions for all msSFU*** objects. When testing the permissions I open Users & Computers, open a user and switch to the UNIX Attributes tab. I then select the domain from the drop down which auto populates the rest of the fields, no problem. When I click apply I get the below error, but if I check the attributes themselves in Attribute editor they have populated and I can use the user in Linux.