I have a HP Mini that runs Splashtop OS as an instant-on OS and Windows 7 as the main OS. I've updated Splashtop through Windows 7 before, so I know it runs on an EEPROM or some other sort of flash storage. Anyone know how to put Chromium OS on there instead of Splashtop OS? 

Click Server Manager (NameOfServer) in the left pane of the Server Manager MMC, then click "Change System Properties" on the far-right. In the dialog box that comes up, click the "Change" button next to where it says "to rename this computer or change its domain..." 

Nope, Windows 7 starter will not let you change the background. You'll need to upgrade to Home Premium or higher EDIT: I take that back, there is a way to do it, but you'll need to use a third-party tool like Windows Blind in order to do it. I wouldn't recommend it, however, because most netbooks are short on resources already. A third-party theme manager would just take up more of those resources 

So I've found something that works extremely well. klip.me is a bookmarklet and Chrome extension that sends the text and pictures on what ever page you're on to your kindle. It's simple and quick. The Chrome extension is way better than the bookmarklet, though. Good for people who use Chrome all the time, not so good for people who use Firefox all the time (like me!). The bookmarklet works, but it's spotty at times. I find myself using the 'view this page in Chrome' add-on for Firefox and sending the page from Chrome. 

Since you don't have control over you have to create a port forwarding on for every port you want access at PC B. On debian you should forward ports using . I have a similar setup with a opensuse machine that forwards RDP on over the VPN. This would be on . 

This only works if there is no 192.168.. local subnet already present for the macbook! On the default gateway of (route to VPN over ): 

The first symbol is for normal key press, the second with shift. You can use xmodmap in your startup scripts. The symbol for is . Keycode for is on my (german) layout 94. You can find out what the keycode for your keys is with . It will open a small box and you see the keypress (and mouse) events in the terminal. 

Using systemctl rather than just should "more future proof", though. The order is important. _setup depends on _init. 

Up to Keynote' 06 the file was actually a folder 1 like you mentioned. However, later the format is used and this is a zip file. 2 ZIP files are not a good format to be diffed, but you can add unzip as a diff handler in git. You can also save the presentation in the old format. If svn still thinks the file is binary, you can use or . Files with no mime-type are treated as text files by subversion. 3 

In general, maximizing the RAM is a good option for old PCs. Less general: having 512 MB of RAM is the absolute minimum these days. Using Windows XP, firefox and OpenOffice is most of the time enough to use all available RAM. How to find out if you need more RAM Open up the Task Manager (CTRL+ALT+DEL), and check the RAM usage. If there is not much free RAM left already, you really need to upgrade RAM. If this is not the case, start a couple of programs you might want to use (at the same time). If you still have a lot of free RAM left, then you don't need more RAM. If you say your machine starts lagging, then you quite probably need more RAM. Rationale RAM only makes your computer faster if it is used. If your system uses 2 GB of RAM at maximum, 4 GB will not make it any faster. However, if you have 512 MB of RAM and your programs would need 1 GB, then you start swapping/paging. That is: part of the Memory is written and read from hard disk. As the hard disk is a lot slower excessive swapping/paging can bring the whole machine to a crawl. So if you are out of RAM often, then more RAM is the first thing you should upgrade on your machine (or try using programs that use less RAM). 

I managed to solve the problem by doing not sure what the previous error has to do with this but after I did this it worked. Hope this helps anyone who has had a similar problem. 

I currently have have a dual boot setup with Linux Mint Mate 18.2 and Windows 7. What is strange is that during installation I gave both systems the same locale settings (or at least that is what I remember). Now when I log into my mint box the time is set correctly but if I reboot and log into my windows box the time is 5 hours ahead. If I change the time and date settings in windows to the correct time when I reboot and log into my mint box the time is set to 5 hours behind. What I would like to know is the following: Why is this happening? and How can I fix it so that both systems have the same time and date settings? 

I have an external USB 3.0 hard drive that when it is connected when my windows system goes into a suspended state on resume the system the hard drive is not recognized. My system has a dual boot option of Linux Mint Mate and Windows 7 Ultimate. If I reboot into my linux box, the hard drive is recognized. I reboot and my windows 7 box can now recognize the hard drive. What can be happening to make my hard drive disappear after a system resume in windows? And is there a solution I can try to solve this issue from windows? 

If you don't want to use port forwarding, you have to change the routing on somehow. If you don't have access to , then you need to route the traffic from the default gateway of to the VPN. One possibility is to route traffic for the VPN from the default gateway to . This only works if you use a different subnet at the location of the macbook than the one used between and If you use some type of router with your macbook you probably also have a 192.168.. subnet there. For this setup you don't use the previous script. You still need 

Of course, since the internal subnet addresses of and are not given by the question, I can't give the exact routing information either. 

Hopefully server admins provide both types of fingerprints in the near future. EDIT: As given in the Arch Linux forums, there is also a third option: 

(same as ) How to setup routing depends on the OS on the default gateway and your macbook. In general it works like this: On macbook (route to ): 

EDIT: You can generate the hash of an arbitrary key as given on the OpenSSH Cookbook: Retrieve the key: 

This script accepts , and and can be used in rc.d as a run-level script on is the VPN interface. This will disallow any traffic between the subnet and the VPN except for the ports explicitely opened (3389 in this example). You don't have to disallow all other forwarding, but I would recommend it. This will also forward access to to . 

I have a dual boot machine with linux mint 18.2 (mate) and windows 7 ultimate. Currently the mint installation is working fine. However when I try to boot into my windows partition I get a screen asking if I want to check boot or start normally. If I select to repair the boot setup it shows a progress bar and finishes saying repairs done successfully and reboots. The windows logo shows up and animates. Next the screen goes black and a mouse appears. After about 15-20 seconds the system restarts and brings up the same screen like it did previously asking if I want to check boot or start normally. Can't get past this. I recently did a system restore before this started happening because my windows system was randomly rebooting (sometimes with a blue screen). After the system restore the system functions properly for a while until one day it just didn't boot. Would appreciate any suggestions. Thanks 

Is there any way for me to be able to recognize if a micro USB cable is good for data transfer as opposed to just charging? I have quite a few micro USB cables but not all of them allow me connect my Android device to my computer (I've tried both on linux and Windows). Most of them (the majority) charge the device but don't recognize it when connected. Would appreciate any insight on this so as to avoid buying the wrong cable in the future. Thanks 

recently I changed my development environment from windows to linux. I setup a lamp server with phpmyadmin and installed composer using Then I tried from within my project and got the following output