Yes, the notebook needs a power source that is higher than battery voltage, to be able to down-convert it and regulate the charge to internal battery. While there are power supply topologies that allow down-convert and up-convert external input source to the desired internal voltage within the same design, these converters are more complicated and more expensive. If your notebook would employ such converter, the input would be specified as having wider range, say, from 9 V to 24 V, which is not the case. So you need a 19V (+-2V I would guess) source to maintain battery functionality in your notebook. However, since your robot uses batteries with the same voltage as your notebook, you should be able to feed the notebook directly from the robot's batteries, if they don't sag too deep while motion is engaged. You will still need a charger to charge these batteries, likely with the same 19-V source. 

Type-C specifications define the new connector form-factor, which includes receptacle, plug, and a set of various cables. It is designed to serve all USB protocols, and is not a subject of whether it is possible on not. Just as a Type-A host receptacle can carry USB2-only connection (which is indistinguishable from USB3 receptacle except its color, which is infrequently black as in usual USB2), developers of products with Type-C connector can choose to use only wires for USB2, and implement USB2 protocol only. Or they can choose to implement no USB protocol at all, using new Type-C means for charging only (CC, Communication Channel pins). The choice is dictated by cost versus sufficient functionality of a OEM device. Type-C adds significant value to OEM products due to its ability to be orientation independent, regardless if it carries USB2, USB3, or only charging signature (which is another advantage). Unfortunately yes, manufacturers frequently resort to ambiguity and fail to mention explicitly which particular USB protocol they have implemented over Type-C connector. It is very inconvenient for end users and deceptive. This probably should fall under a category of false advertising, with proper legal consequences. 

I wouldn't advise to use this hub as a charger. To begin, the manufacturer (or seller) is lying that it is "USB-IF certified". The description indicates that it has "5V 1A" AC-DC wall adapter, which cannot possibly feed all 7 ports, which would require at least a 4A adapter to comply with USB requirements, Now, a high-end hub might have a special high-side power switches on each port, who provide current limits and overcurrent indication to host. But they are rare even in the expensive category of hubs. These switches usually are engaged only when the hub is connected to USB host and gets full enumeration. However, cheap hubs use a "ganged mode", and tie power to all ports nearly directly to input external power. This kind of hubs have VBUS voltage out right after you plug the AC-DC adapter into a wall. In this case the 1A will be delivered to all 7 ports, and you will have 1 A total, which is only good for two USB ports. More, since the hub is not marketed as "charging hub", all ports are likely the standard USB ports, and have no charging signature of any kind. Therefore most intelligent devices will see it as regular USB port, and won't take more than 500 mA, and likely will charge very slowly, if ever. In summary, high chances are that this hub will source 5V on all ports without being connected to USB host, but it would't be able to charge more than two devices, and just at the standard slow 500 mA rate. 

The MSI mainboard and the Razer laptop are both USB HOSTS. The connection between two USB link "partners" can be only if one is HOST, and the other is DEVICE. The Type-C USB specifications do define so-called DRD - Dual Role Data ports, which can turn itself into being a host or device. However, to have such dual-role functionality from a PC, the system must have TWO USB controllers inside, one acting as xHCI-compliant HOST, and another IP (piece of silicon) that can act as USB device (with all necessary attributes as USB class etc.) The external Type-C port then is internally multiplexed into xHCI or DCI hardware block depending on cable identification rules. The mainstream desktop systems do not have this functionality designed in, but all Intel systems that targeted "mobile space" (Atom line of SoC) usually do have this dual-role functionality. So the answer to the first question is: yes, you can try to connect both systems with C-C cable, but chances of data transfer are slim, unless the one of systems clearly identifies itself as Dual-Role system (aka "OTG") in its datasheet. Even if a silicon hardware does have this internal USB capability, the system must provide proper handling of Type-C CC (communication) channel, to determine the role of ports, and engage proper software stack. The Type-C port must be designed in a way that no VBUS power is applied until a cable is plugged in, and both ports sort their identities out. Host ports have CC pull-ups, while device ports have 5.1k pull-down on their CC pin. If both ports have the same "gender role", VBUS power shouldn't be turned on. So the answer to the second question is - if both systems are USB-IF certified, there should be no concern of VBUS power collision. The answer to the third question is negative, there is no need in any "crossover cable", all crossover is handled in muxes behind the Type-C connector. If both ports are DRP, they will periodically advertise their identity, and the result will be selected at random 

Laptops use so-called "smart batteries", meaning that the battery pack has built in charger that (a) charges each parallel cell group to their manufacturer's specifications (terminal voltage and max charging current), and (b) balances the charge between groups connected in series. When you measured 14.8 (3.7V times 4) on a freshly charged battery (I presume), it means that the charger in your re-used pack was charging the new cells to 3.7V. Most recent 18650 cells usually have termination voltage at 4.2V, so if you charge then only to to 3.7V, their capacity will be severely handicapped. So, you need to check charging specifications for your new cells first. However, it will be highly unlikely that you can reprogram the built-in charger to new 4.2V level. The second effect could be due to the battery configuration having two cells in parallel, 4S2P. Manufacturers of good laptop batteries use careful binning technique to closely match the cells that will go in parallel. If discharge curves and/or internal impedances are not matched, the pair of parallel cells will receive suboptimal charge, and will have stronger self-discharge, so the overall battery capacity will be further reduced. Because of the above considerations, an attempt to repair/replace bad cells in laptop battery packs in DIY environment has usually a limited success. 

Performance of hubs does not depend on quality of plastics or number of ports. Once a hub gets proper electicals from host port and signal link does not break, its data transfer performance doesn't depend on anything (multi-TT and FS behavior with MIDI devices is an exception). This performance is ensured by certification of silicon ICs that go into the hub. However, for high-speed connectivity the quality of electrical routing (PCB and cables) does matter. A hub either work, or doesn't, except when behaving flaky, in narrow cases. Unfortunately, for end user, there is only one meaningful criteria to make sure a hub won't cause problems. It is to look for USB-IF (Implementer Forum) Certification Logo on the device itself (or its packaging), like this one,