which opens the files as seperate buffers in vim and leaves me looking with at the first one. I edit it - then I use ':w' to save it and ':bd' to close the buffer and move on to the next one. This ':w:bd' to save and close the buffer feels long to me, and I suspect there's a more vim ninja way of doing it - what's the recommend way to save and close the buffer you are working on in one felt swoop? 

I happily use both ssh and scp. Quite often I am in an ssh session and I'd like to retrieve a file from my machine and put it in the directory I'm currently in without having to open a new terminal window and work out the scp command. So effectively i'd like to be able to do this: remotemachine#scp homeconnection:thisfile.txt . without opening an scp server on my machine. Is it possible to use the open ssh connection to do the copy or am I stuck going in and out of ssh? J 

it works fine from the command line with 'python temp.py' and `sudo python temp.py' (all it needs to do is display the growl notification) I open up crontab with 'crontab -e' (i'm on OSX if that helps. I add the line 

Still, yesterday he managed to get, again, access of my PayPal account. I must say that PayPal has been, generally, great and everything is restored. Yet I want to stop it as it happens once a week for the few last weeks. What are the other options to find what security hole I have? I don't have trouble to format my computer, I just need to understand what can guarantee it won't get back (This is why I think I must figured out how it is done before that)? Any special tricks to really understand what is going on? Thank You. 

Another option is that Chrome, instead of downloading PDF's, launches them in the system defined PDF Reader. The way to stop it is in the Content Settings in Chrome's Settings: 

Convert into Windows friendly format (With High Quality)? Change container into format working in Windows (With no rencoding). Convert into valid MPEG2 () with high bit rate. 

The first thing I though about is someone is key logging my computer. Or any kind of MaleWare. Actions Done 

I have a series of 15 PNG Files - $URL$ I would like to create an MP4 Video of them using FFMPEG. In my video I'd like to have 15 Frames (One per image) where each is played 1 Sec (FPS 1). I downloaded the latest FFMPEG for Windows (Version 3.2.4). I followed the guide FFMPEG - Slideshow. The command line I used is . I also tried (What's the difference between and ?). Yet the resulted video is not as expected. The first frame is black and then there is only one image as constant (I watch it on VLC Media Player). Any idea how to product it correctly on Windows? Thank You. 

I'm emailing someone a draft version of a WordPress post. The post includes youtube videos and tweets. In WordPress to get the YouTube video to embeds, or the tweet to display properly you just paste the URL, no hassle. Is it possible to get this same functionality in an email? Can I make use of the oEmbed standard this way? I should say I'm talking directly about using the oEmbed functionality, not 'hey how to I put a youtube link into an email'. 

Which is okay, but I really want each group (in the example data: trentham and keele2) to have it's own line showing progress. Is it possible to do this in Excel? Full dataset is on Dropbox here 

I quite often tether my mac though my phone and obviously this results in less bandwidth being available. Is it possible to have a browser set up to use the smallest possible amount of bandwidth? What are the major things to turn off(on) to reduce the amount of data I'm piping though the machine. Note: I'm actually NOT concerned about cost - I'm completely concerned with speed and responsiveness... 

When printing from Chrome (Version 21.0.1180.82 - OSX) I get an inconvenient print dialog, where chrome tries to take control of the printing away from the OS - is there a way to disable this permanently? I've tried using the suggestions at $URL$ and $URL$ and didn't get very far... :( 

Did you try ( in the buffer)? If the files in the archive are in the mbox or similar format it might work. Another thing to try is to use () and pick the correct method and file. 

To debug the first case use to see the value of when you've opened a new file and it has doubled the boilerplate. To debug the second case you could add another function to the hook which uses to print out something (like 'HELLO from cperl-mode-hook') then check the buffer to see how many times you see it after visiting a new file. Given that the problem seems to go away when you downgrade to the old version of cperl then it seems likely that it is the second problem. You might be able to fix the second problem by createing a buffer-local-variable and checking if it is set before inserting the boilerplate - thus keeping it from being inserted twice. Hope these ideas are helpful. 

If your filename is named correctly (usually the extension) then should handle this for you. If needed you may need to add to in order to make be the one that is started for you. 

I'd suggest investigating keyboard macros in MSWord. I don't have a copy of Word at hand but there is a way to record your keyboard actions and then replay them later. You could, hypothetically, record a macro which cuts the selected text, opens the footer, inserts the text into a footnote, and then removes the surrounding it. Then select the LaTeX footnote and replay the macro. I apologize in advance that this is a hypothetical answer. 

I have a 'terms_of_reference' word document I send to clients (schools as it happens). It has a range of fields for 'School name', 'Contact teacher', 'Dates' and so on. When I work with a new school I update the fields, let the document populate itself and print (or in this case, pdf and email) a version for the school. After the project at the school finishes I prepare a press_release for the school so they can send it to local papers and so on. Much of the information in the press_release 'School name', 'Contact teacher', 'Dates' is the same as in the terms_of_reference. Is it possible to write a template in such a way that you can say "Rather than asking me for each field when this updates, ask me for the document where I can find the original field values". If it isn't possible, is this a problem that is solved in a different way? 

(you'll notice the the vim window is smaller than the terminal window) If I type 'exit' to exit the logging, and resize I get the vim terminal I was expecting. 

I get a lovely terminal within the tab. The problem is that MacVim WON'T permit me to leave that tab without exiting the shell. What's going on here? 

I have a strange case with my PayPal account and I wanted the community assistance on what can be done and how to spot the security hole. I have a private PayPal which has been constantly attacked lately. When I say attacked I mean some one tried and gained access to it. Now, what I can't understand is how. The Facts 

I downloaded the latest FFMPEG for Windows (Version 3.2.4). I wanted to use it for converting a MOV File which contains uncompressed video. The video can be downloaded on this link - $URL$ I can view the video in VLC Media Player yet when I try convert it in VLC into any video format the output is invalid video file. I also tried using FFMPEG using the following command - . Yet the result was: qtrle. I also tried the following - yet the output, just like in the case of VLC was invalid video file. So I'd like the assistance with: 

I have a folder full of sub folders and files which are named using Hebrew encoding (Windows XP - Windows-1255). I now use Windows 7 and I want to convert all file names into UTF (Native Windows 7 which supports Hebrew characters). Is there a tool to do so automatically? Pay attention, I'm not after converting the internals of the file, only its file name. Thanks! 

Oddly, the file plays fine when I visit the link with Safari, but NOT with Firefox (40.0.3). Am I missing something? 

You may be looking in ever-so slightly the wrong place (I did exactly this last week) Gmail's settings let you show/hide labels as you mention - but that's just for the UI, over to the right there is the 'show in IMAP' checkbox that lets you control if, say, your phone can see it. 

but what I'd really like to do is edit all the files that haven't been modified in the last day (or n days, or n hours) - what's the most command-line-fu way of doing this? 

I have a long Latex document with many sections. I'd like to check that all sections of the document are filled in. So I search for any time there is a '}' ending a section title, somewhitespace, and then a '\' starting the next section (This is far from a perfect search, but it's fine by me.) In vim I use 

I'm using Chrome and Gmail. When I download stuff from the web, Chrome automatically puts it in Downloads, which is fine. However, I'm aware that everything I download from Gmail is in the cloud anyway and so I don't really need it taking up space on my hard drive as well. Is there a way to have Gmail attachements automatically download to a different folder, say, Downloads\Gmail? That way I could regularly purge the ones that won't be useful for a while. (Yes, I'm aware that Word documents and the like often get changed after they arrive, I'm more focused on images, pdfs, and zip files.) I'd be quite happy with a background problem quietly scanning downloaded file and performing actions based on where they are from... 

If you simply close that buffer (perhaps by hitting ) then you will not be given a new prompt immediately. If you hit return again in the REPL you are given a new prompt. However. The correct way to exit from the debugger is to enter the number of one of the restarts, or to move to the line of the restart you want to execute and then hit return. 

When the buffer opened you probably saw a buffer with contents that look sort of like the following (I created this by evaluating 

(would rather leave this as a comment - but I seem to lack the rep - I'll remove this answer when a real answer is given) Seems one of two things are likely happening 

That is not the expected behavior. The following is the function documention for on GNU Emacs 24.3.1: 

Are you using the option to open files? That will cause VIM to open each file in a separate tab. if you use or it will open in a single tab but in separate windows (split horizontally or vertically respectively). If you just call VIM with a list of filenames it will open all of them in a single tab and show a window displaying the first. 

I have an mp4 file (that's blank space, I use it to test subtitles) It's currently sitting at $URL$ I generated it with ffmpeg. My notes are incomplete and it was a while ago, but these are the commands that could have generated it: 

In my dataset we have many groups writing content. We regualarly take a snapshop of the number of words written. Groups work over a five day Monday to Friday period and we're interested to chart their progress. The data in excel looks like this (the last column is time+weekday to give a 'equivelent distance into the week' measurement) 

It's my understanding that the judges get the same pdf - so it must been annoying to them as well. Are there any suggestions for things I could try to 'add in' whitespace to make it easier for everybody to see? My understanding is that the software is being used in a way it wasn't originally designed for. 

Where the third column is the time the measurement was taken in seconds since epoch. I'd like to be able to see the time as more every day clock time, and I'm looking for the simplest way to have every column in the file converted. What's the most effective way of performing the conversion? (I'm on OSX)