If that laptop is overheating, it is because the cooling channel has not been cleaned out recently... if ever. Also, the design is such (the way it utilizes an earlier design to have the heat sink at the end of a heat pipe to shunt the heat generated by the processor completely off the motherboard) that if the heat pipe is bent **AT ALL IN ANY WAY* more than the original specs allow, the heat sink itself will be pushed by the casing upon re-assembly, which will translate to the copper pad on the processor being levered slightly OFF the processor, making the transfer of heat less efficient. Believe me on this. I spent days on an A215 trying to figure out why it would overheat ONLY when assembled, but would run fine when taken apart... took me a bit to catch that. So, if the unit has ever been taken apart to have the cooling channel cleaned (the blanket of dust that gathers between the fan and the heat sink) it is entirely possible that the heat pipe between the copper processor pad and the heat sink was bent when it was put back together. That is IF it was ever cleaned. If it has never been cleaned, then the unit needs to be taken apart, the fan removed, and the blanket of dust taken out of there. You see... a little dust gathers on the leading edge of the heat sink fins, and that little dust catches more dust... and pretty soon (6 months to a year) you have a layer looking like it came out of a clothes dryer lint trap. Now, that Model Toshiba also came with software to allow you to underclock the processor to save battery power (they've been doing that with their custom power management software since before the A70 series). It doesn't quite run as efficiently as Cool & Quiet. It's not the kind of thing that automatically underclocks until you need more power. It's a blunt setting kind of deal. So... clean the laptop. Clean it well. Or... get it cleaned. EDIT The reasons why you see a difference with Windows 7... it could be due to the fact that the power management within Windows 7 does a better job at controlling the fan speed. It could be due to the fact that it will underclock the processor to extend battery life and reduce heat generation. However, none of that changes the fact that EVERY laptop will suck dust and debris up it's cooling fan, and blow it against the heat sink... until there is a layer of material there that will impede air flow and cause overheating. That's a 5+ year old laptop, using a single fan/90 degree cooling assembly. Look at this image... 

The beauty of the design (since the A100 series... L100, etc) is that any damage to the jack doesn't actually damage the motherboard. Unlike previous older designs which had the DC jack mounted right to the motherboard itself... and certain kinds of damage could rip/break the motherboard where the jack was mounted. Also, technicians who were not careful could tear the tin collars out from the holes where the jack was mounted, causing the replaced jack not to make the proper contact on both sides of the motherboard (among other things). Did you replace the jack? Did Toshiba? Was the entire assembly (pictured above) replaced, or was just the port replaced and jury-rigged onto the cabling? The end looks like an easy-to-disconnect 4 contact plug, but it's actually not that simple to remove... and it is possible that when the port was replaced, this was damaged in the process. Again... hard to say without having the unit on my bench. For several model series after they instituted this design, the white plug end of this assembly didn't connect to a jack. It was simply connected to 4 pins on the motherboard. Toshiba did not move away from that design (to the best of my knowledge) so it is even possible that a technician who was not paying attention connected the plug backwards. Ok... a very low probability, but still a possibility. But... if the DC jack and cabling was replaced properly, the DC adapter has been replaced with one that supplies the proper voltage and amperage, and the battery has been replaced... that only leaves one more thing and you know what it is. The Motherboard. Toshiba recommends their universal 75 watt adapter (19V x 3.95 A) which means that the 65 watt adapters you can find around on Amazon and other places is probably closer to what the laptop came with, so unless you are trying some other brand of Universal Adapter with the absolute wrong tip, the adapter you have is probably alright. In some cases, if you were using a 65 watt adapter and your system required 90 watts (or using a 90 watt and it required 120) you might see an issue with charging when you were using the laptop, but it would still charge when plugged in and turned off. Just bringing that up. Now, when you remove the battery, and plug the power adapter in, there are no LEDs on? Not even for a fraction of a second? No indication whatsoever that you just plugged a power source into the unit? Seriously though... I'd have the job that was done for replacing the DC jack rechecked. That will be far cheaper than replacing the motherboard... and if it tests out fine (with a multimeter applied to different parts of the board to make sure that power is flowing even if it's not turning on) then you know for sure it needs a new board. 

This is not THE solution, but it relates to a solution, and most likely the one you alluded to (without actually linking to). You see, certain programs leave behind and/or install filters that alter the operational status of your optical drives. Although you are frightened of editing your registry hive manually, you can allow Microsoft to do it for you. Follow this link to this Microsoft article. It not only provides a link to an autmatic fix, but if you choose to, it also tells you the manual steps you can follow, should you decide to dive into your own registry. Again, I want to repeat, you do not have to edit your own registry. You can simply click the green RUN NOW button. 

Favorites? Bookmarks? Is this for your web browser? Chrome? Firefox? Safari? Internet Explorer? Well... with Chrome, Ctrl+Shift+B shows/hides the Bookmark Toolbar. With Firefox, use the View menu at the top, Toolbars, Bookmark Toolbar to bring it back. With Internet Explorer, use the View menu at the top, Toolbars, Favorites. Otherwise... we need far more specific information from you. 

Fiddling with the CMOS battery won't affect the BIOS password anyway. The BIOS password on that model is stored in an EEPROM chip which doesn't require electricity to store it. It was an improvement in laptop security that has been implemented by just about every laptop manufacturer. Being able to clear a password by removing a battery would essentially defeat the purpose of having BIOS security on a laptop. No, the argument that this is how it works on a desktop doesn't apply here. I know there are a ton of links out there that all say just pull the battery, but these don't apply to laptops. If the laptop does boot, but you just can't get into the BIOS, then you can try using the Kill CMOS utility or CMOSPasswd from Hiren's BootCD otherwise, you'd probably have to locate the EEPROM chip that the password is stored in, and short the proper pins while applying power to the unit to clear the chip. Understandably, finding information on the internet pertaining to defeating laptop BIOS security is difficult... as it would make stealing laptops more profitable. I'll keep digging to see if there is a specific hack for that model. EDIT Ok. I spent some time digging through the HP support forums, and multiple sources confirm that HP would need to remove that password. That means there are a couple of possibilities. 

Advice Get a new UPS with a larger output. I'd suggest at least a 1100VA unit, regardless of who makes it. See, it works out roughly to the Volt-Amp rating, multiplied by 60%, equaling the wattage that the unit can support. Now, if you are going to have the computer and anything ELSE (like an external hard drive, or an LCD monitor) on the backup protection, then go with a 1250VA model. That's my advice. 

Ok. To put the comments together for you... Your hard drive is not a hybrid... although there is technology designed to be used on hybrid drives, installed and in use on your drive right now. It's called ExpressCache. Samsung includes this with your Ultrabook to speed up booting and program usage. Samsung details this fact on the specs page for your model Ultrabook... as well as having the Windows drivers for ExpressCache featured prominently on the support page for your Ultrabook. So... what does all that mean? It means you have three choices. Choice one. Use the Samsung recovery media to put the OS Back on the system that came with the system. It's not a matter of arguing why you wanted to change. It's a matter of the fact that Samsung seems to have gone to great lengths to provide the best experience possible for their hardware... and (This is important) apparently you should REMOVE EXPRESS CACHE FROM WITHIN THE WINDOWS INSTALLATION WHERE IT LIVED before you decide to replace the OS that is using it. So, with Choice one... you recover back to how the Ultrabook was from the factory, THEN remove ExpressCache... THEN install your new OS. Choice two. Use the utility of your choice to remove any and all trace of ExpressCache from your drive. Just remember, it's not two drives. It's one drive with software and settings to make it LOOK like two drives, because the little one is a cache where stuff got saved for quick retrieval. Low Level Formatting... Parted Magic... whatever you find you can use to make the little partition either go away, or cease to be Disk 0, or not be the primary. Choice three. This gentleman went through the same hell you are going through. Now, the steps he used for resolution would need to be modified to fit your situation... but I'm going to quote what he put for his solution here. And AGAIN! Blindly following these steps is not going to work. You need to adjust these to fit your situation. For one thing, the "small" drive in his situation was Disk 1, not Disk 0. So, I'd really suggest you read the whole posting I provided a link to, rather than just this quote... but if I don't include the quote, someone's going to be upset about providing an answer without the steps involved (in case the link went dead in the future). Meh. 

After reading the product page... $URL$ ... and noticing that the OS is loaded as Firmware, as well as reading the installation instructions... I'd have to say that No. There is not any way to get it to boot to a USB stick to install Ubuntu. Even if you could... the device doesn't appear to boot to the 4g of flash memory the unit uses for storage. The unit boots to the OS embedded on a ROM chip and uses the flash memory just for storage. Think of it like an Android touchpad with a keyboard... or a big phone. The instructions for loading the OS are very specific, and require using files designed for the process. Click the Installation link at the bottom of the product page and read them, to see what I mean. THAT said... some hard core geeks have modified the version of Android. One such geek post here with links to the modified ROM and Source files. $URL$