you should not worry about SD card replacement when using it in a web server, it should last a few years, if your usage patterns are not too extreme. 

you may copy this script under the name you like, enable it by setting and have fun with the variables available (run it once to see the output in ). or maybe just ignore the variables and use approach as before. anyway, if you need a manual regarding these scripts, check this. 

please, look carefully at your command line, I don't believe there's a device called in your system, you should have part separated from the file name or removed altogether. 

according to this page : "A faintly glowing steady green LED means no boot code has ever been executed, as almost the first thing the boot code does is to turn the faint glow off! When flashing/blinking the green LED should be as bright as the red LED." you have to check and/or replace your SD card and make sure you actually wrote a proper image in the proper place, it's easy to mess up, especially if you haven't done this before. 

OpenELEC is a severely stripped down version of Linux intended as a media player. If you are looking for painless software installations, regular updates and security patches, flawlessly working software -- you'd better choose a more "regular" distribution, like Raspbian. If you need a media player and still want to play with Linux -- get two or more RPis, it's quite cheap and definitely much cheaper than spending your valuable time on troubleshooting. 

reset jumper usually connects a pulled-up (or pulled-down) pin to the ground (or power), you may use voltmeter to find out by measuring the voltage difference between pins and then between pins with a jumper attached and the ground. still, I would advise against doing whatever you're planning to do, because if the motherboard locks up, it's better to find the reason (bad memory? broken PCB?) and either fix it or throw away. your files are more important than however much the broken parts might cost. on the other hand, I'd use Raspi as a headless file/print server, it has hardware watchdog, that pulls the reset when something wrong happens. so,maybe it's time to replace your ITX with a Raspberry PI? =) 

IT WONT WORK. Raspberry Pi is not designed to be used with random LCD panels, that require a special driver IC most of the time. If your LCD panel does not include HDMI input or converter of some sort, it's very impractical and time consuming to try to connect this panel. 

you may pull the power plug, wait for 1-2 seconds and connect it back again. still, I'm not sure your problems are because of broken video files, most probably there's something wrong with your power supply, please, make sure you have an adequate power supply, able to provide at least 2A at 5V. 

in this output is the first partition on the SD card and you may deduce that others will be named as and so on. Look at the second column for the size, you're supposed to find something like 29xxxxx for a 2.9G partition. Having said all this, I'd like to notice, is not a backup tool. It can copy all you data all right, but the part is the most important, and with a you most likely won't be able to restore the data properly and end up with a 2.9G blob of something you cannot use. Please, consider copying your files with something like a . 

Raspi jack output has poor audio quality, you might be better off connecting your audio system directly to the laptop output or somehow use HDMI output if possible. 

a good router has dedicated router hardware, that's optimized for the specific task. a good radio module, correctly matched antenna, optimized software. if you're going to replace this with a cheap media player, connected to the USB whistle, that has antenna smaller than my fingernail, guess what kind of performance you may expect. the range will suffer a lot, the speed would be quite slow, security of your setup would most likely be very poor and don't forget the need to re-image SD card every once in a while. all in all, I'd keep using old router or get a new one. raspberry pi is designed for completely different tasks. 

parallel communication is long gone, most HDD drives today are SATA and you can hardly find any parallel port on the back of your average PC. considering the lack of GPIO pins, the best idea might be to use serial communication, either the serial port or, if you are adventurous type, the i2c port. 

sorry, you cannot use composite video connector for video input, and using analog camera also seems very problematic. I'd recommend to get a cheap web-camera, 1280x720 should be available for less than $15 at any shop, connect it to the USB connector and enjoy! 

you may try different distributions, GeexBox, OpenELEC, XBian to see how it works for you, if all they behave similar way, probably there's something wrong with your board, though it's very unlikely. i'd recommend to start from OpenELEC. 

if you have three identical setups, you may easily swap parts one by one to find the faulty one, start from the power supply, then goes the wireless adapter, then other externally-connected devices, then SD cards, and finally if the problem still persists, you'd better check the back side of your boards to find out the revision and production date and see if there's any difference there. 

you might think about separating your system to the read-only partition and your data files somewhere else. read-only system is unlikely to get corrupted and after you have it up and running, you may start recovery scripts and/or login over SSH to fix the possible problems. 

On your laptop it's not the temperature itself that slows you down, it's the processor overheat protection, that lowers the CPU frequency to avoid burning it out. In case of RPi, the best temperature is the room temperature, with not very high humidity. If you want to make RPi processor run faster, run and check overclocking options, just don't go too high and stay safe. 

that is surveillance software to capture, analyse images from the camera, detect a lot of different things, and do a log of other things (like sending mail, recording a video or saving pictures) when or even before the motion is detected. please install it and check config files for plethora of options available. it's easier to setup the necessary parameters if you start it as -- that will make it print a lot of debug information on the screen. also, keep in mind, basically it's not a very good idea to use SD card as a storage for surveillance data, especially in the long run, so make sure you're going to get a decent HDD later for that purpose. regarding day/night changes -- these happen too slowly to be detected, and has some options to ignore lights on/off as well. ps. if you don't have RasPi available yet, is available in the most linux distributions and works well with most of the web cameras, so you may start testing right away =) 

You may want to take a look at OpenMAX. Otherwise, graphic drivers are provided by BroadCOM in binary form and not open-sourced at all. You may need to sign NDA and have close friends at Broadcom to take a peek. 

Make sure your power supply has enough juice to spare, MAX3232 uses voltage multiplication to achieve RS232C 13V levels, that might require some power. 

I used to use RNDIS drivers for that purpose, but there are better alternatives available today: $URL$ Usbnet support is supposed to be included in the latest kernels. 

According to the URL you gave, you've got an IR detector with the digital output, therefore there's nothing you cannot do on a Pi, because it readily accepts any kind of digital signals. If you connect your IR detector to the GPIO pin, you may read the pin state from the program you write or from the simple script. On the other hand, if you've got an IR photocell, you'd better use something that has ADC converter to be able to capture incoming data more precisely (RasPi has no ADC by default). 

Raspberry Pi is not just "ok" to be run 24/7, it's actually designed to do so. I have a few units working non-stop and haven't seen any issues yet. Regarding switches, the OpenELEC does automatically stop the video playback when TV is turned off or changed the channel, very convenient. The only thing you should think about is a good remote, because XMBC interface might get cumbersome from time to time. 

when used on real system, the correct list of the automatically installed packages could be found using and the list of the manually installed packages could be seen using . for those who don't like a simple solution, but prefers grepping some files, here's another (still correct) approach: 

you may use to install linux-headers, but this is likely to break your raspbmc installation, since the raspbmc explicitly warns against using . you may use another installation to compile the peerguardian and then tar-copy-untar and on your raspbmc. 

I have tried this one, it connects into the USB port, can record and play back the IR codes, supported by LiRC. I have even tried to plug it into my Android phone and it works there as well. 

there are two kind of people with external hard drives, some are looking for methods to power down the HDD when not accessed, and others are looking for methods to power it up when needed =) from my point of view, starting and stopping hdd spindle rotation is the operation that wears the hard disk drive most. unless you have strong worries about your power bill, you'd better leave your hdd as it is, the power consumption in idle mode is quite minimal, maybe 2-3 watts at most. 

replacing the and numbers with the ones you've found with command. Finally, you have to add yourself to the group 'plugdev': 

while it might be possible to connect this LCD to RasPi, I'd very much advise against it, unless there's some other goal, like learning how to solder or getting a good grade for this project. 

From my personal experience, WD Blue HDD (WD10JPVT/WD10JPVX with 0.55A average current) might work more or less reliably (== require about 1 reboot / month) connected directly to RPi without any powered hub. Your particular HDD requires much higher currents, so it's very unlikely you'll be able to do anything reasonable without an external power. 

looks like sdl c/c++ development for Raspberry Pi is supported, or at least present in the latest build of Raspbian. 

then when your button is not pressed, the pin 17 will read '1' (true) and when pressed the reading will become '0' (false). no changes are necessary in your script. 

to be able to access your plugged in device, you should use command to find the device manufacturer and product code like this: 

I'd recommend to take a look on something like PandaBoard, the latest "ES" version has dual-core OMAP4460 with two Cortex-A9 cores running at 1.2Ghz, that should be more than enough for your video processing needs, cheap single-core ARM boards in 600-800MHz range just don't fit in the terms of performance. 

the kernel module does exactly same thing, maps the memory and writes to a predefined addresses, but when you factor in the system call processing, context switch latency and consider the other processes running on the same system, 60uS does not seem "very slow". if you can elaborate what's your goal, you might get better answers.