I generally use PL/SQL collections for this. Essentially you create a table type, then create a variable with that table type, then do a select for update to get all of the data that you want to update, then do a forall update to update the data. Since you are updating the a table the record type should be that table. Such as: 

Commands to restore database without needing to apply redo. If you don;t want the database to roll forward make sure that there are no files in the archive log directory. You can tar and delete them or just move them elsewhere. 

Connect to your database using RMAN and try the following command. Where 90 is the number of days that you want to keep backup data in your RMAN catalog. 

You need to understand the fundamental difference between storage space and memory. Your table space may run out of free segments, and thus the table can't grow at a certain point. But not all of the table will be in memory at any given point. Here is an overly complex SQL script that will show all of your table spaces and data files and how much space is being used in each data file. You may need to allow the data file for the table space that you are using to grow beyond what it currently is set to. Hence memory is not the issue, free space in a table space is the issue. 

This error is caused by having more columns in the table then the columns that exist in your insert statement. You can resolve this by adding the missing columns to the values clause or by specifying the columns that you are inserting and making sure that you have the same number of columns as you do values bound to those columns. 

Why are you doing hash partitioning and not range partitioning based on date. If you hash partition, you get not benefit of being able to drop whole partitions. What you probably get is that inserts have to potential to be done across a number of partitions and possibly separate storage. You could partition by day and sub partition by hour, thus you write to one sub partition at a time and move to the next. Because you can do interval range partitioning you don't need to keep creating new partitions, just drop partitions as they are no longer needed. Make sure that you have a primary key. Otherwise your indexes will need to be rebuilt every time partitions are dropped. The primary key should be used to filter out all of the partitions that don't contain the data that you want for most queries. At lease when you are querying by date. Local indexes will help within individual partitions or sub partitions once the partition pruning has happened. Global indexes can help with queries that in your case aren't date specific, but need to be selected across all partitions. 

You should be able to do that with an RMAN backup. You need to see what kind of backup Oracle XE supports. But you should be able to shutdown the database, startup mount, then do an RMAN backup making sure to tell Oracle where to send the backup, make sure that you include the control file with the backup. Then copy the backup over to the 64 bit server and inside RMAN use "CATALOG START WITH 'D:\backups';" or where ever the backup is. You need to copy over the init/spfile, create a service on the new server, startup nomount the new service, in rman, connect to the new database service, restore the control file, make sure that the control file restored, then restore the database. You will not need to recover the database since it was done while the database was not open. You then need to find and run the script in %ORACLE_HOME%/rdbms/admin that will convert the database to 64 bit then upgrade the database to 64 bit. It would help if you have a 10g 64 bit home on the new server, but I was not able to install 10g on Windows 2008, it just won't install, so you probably need to run the upgrade manually. You can also upgrade as a 32 bit database on XP and then migrate the database as 11g. Another option is to create a new 11g 64 bit database on the new server and use data pump to migrate it. Regardless you will need to test the process and probably try it more than once. 

This will give really good information about how the queries ran, how long, how much logical/physical IO, explain plan and waits. Plus you don't need any optional components to get the information. 

You should avoid creating check constraints based on data dictionary tables. You can create your own table that has application tables. You can also include other columns that might be meaningful to your application, but not already included in user_tables. If you create your own table, then you should create a foreign key between you table that you are working on and you own version of user_tables. An example of a column that you might want in your custom user tables would be parent table, which implies a self join, hence it needs to allow nulls since not every table will have a parent table. 

In order to do a clone, you need to connect to the target database which is the database that you are cloning from. In this case you are doing a restore. So there is no auxiliary database. Just do a startup nomount, provided that you have a pfile with the proper settings. Then restore a specific control file as in "restore control file from '/path/to/rman/backup/****.ctl';". If your control file is labeled the same as the backups you can try "CATALOG START WITH '/disk2/archlog' NOPROMPT; Where the path points to your most recent backup. If the path of the restore is different then make sure that your pfile has the following: 

Access is not very good as a multiuser database. You might want to move the tables into a mySQL database, for example and then link the tables to the database using ODBC. SQL Server or Oracle would work as well. It allows you to use the forms, reports, etc without having the data in Access. 

You should check to see if the user that you exported had a job scheduled using a program owned by someone else. If so you are trying to schedule a job for a program that does not exist. You can create the program, then do the import as long as the user who will own the program exists before you create the program as that user. 

That should be pretty simple. You should do this from rman. Also run a "show all;" to see how your backups are configured. 

I assume that you are practicing backup and recovery. The best way to do this is to do the following: 

Create a table with a select * from a large table and where 1=0. Gather stats, save them using dbms_stats and then apply those stats to the large table. You will essentially tell Oracle that the large table has no data, which would favor full table scans. You can also try switching the optimizer mode to first_rows_1 or invalidating some indexes. 

Do both servers have similar hardware and OS? Is there enough storage space for the 11g database? Have you thought about using data pump instead? With data pump and enterprise edition you can export and import in parallel as well as compress. With 10g you can compress the meta data but not the data. With 11g you can compress the data and meta data. How does the SGA compare between the databases? Are you using AMM on 11g, which isn't available on 10g? 

I addressed this with the PL/SQL project manager years ago, and was told that it is not possible. You can't address the :NEW or :OLD columns as a record and convert them to anything. You can create a temporary table that is either identical to the table that you are writing the trigger for or generic, i.e. table_name, column_name, column_type, clob. You would then insert the :NEW or :OLD values into the temporary table and you can access those values with an after statement trigger. Then you can read the data in an after statement trigger. 

Currently we have two Model Mart repositories, 7.2 and 9.5. We only migrated the models that are currently being used, but we need to keep the old models available in case they are needed. Is there a tool to do the migration from Oracle 11g to SQL Server 2016? Has someone done a manual migration where the instance, database and schema are created in SQL Server, the constraints are dropped and the data is moved over followed by creating the constraints. 

This will create a trace file under the diag directory, assuming that you are at least running 11g. You can open the file with notepad and there are two sets of instructions for creating the control file. One for using archive log and one for not using archive log. You should take a look at the file and see what is included. You can use this for moving the database or any of its components. Here are some links that you should look at. CREATE CONTROLFILE DATABASE CONCEPTS 

Then do a select for update and a forall update a commit and you are done. If you needed to you could probably load the data with a limit clause in a loop so that you could process a small chunk of data at a time. I would start by trying to update all of the data at once. $URL$ Here is my best guess on two indexes that could help the performance. You probably need to test with and without these indexes, or maybe you already have indexes that do enough. 

I sounds like you are doing partitioning based on a virtual column. virtual_column_based_partitioning 

Try adding: export LD_LIBRARY_PATH==/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/xe/lib Otherwise check to see if you can access the lib directory above. 

Your professor should have taught you the mod function. You can use rownumber and mod to come up with a number from 0 to n where n is one less than the number that you divide by. Hence mod(rownum, 37)+1 will give you a random number between 1 and 37. This gives you between 4 and 5 people working at every location. Sounds oddly random. Except it would not be random for a database class. This query should help you to get on track. 

Has he tried "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM smahala.fishtable;"? If you grant select on a table in one schema to another schema that user should be able to access it by including the schema name in the query. However, if NOAA is using virtual private databases, then there may be other obstacles that prevent you from sharing data. If there isn't much data, you can try to export to a flat file and have the other person import the flat file. but this should probably get resolved by your internal DBA's. Since they know how the database is configured. You might also want to verify that you are using the same Oracle database. 

Try checking the alert log to figure out what sequence it needs next. If you have the archive logs online or in a backup online you can restore the missing archive log files and copy them over to the archive log directory to see if you can get the standby caught up. If you are running backups of your primary database, then just doing an incremental backup might not work because you still might miss changes from before the incremental backup. If you can't resolve the gap in archive logs you might need to restore the standby database again. 

You can read the files with a hex editor, but you can't restore Oracle data files backed up from a Linux server to a Windows server. The endian is different. Depending on how your database is setup you can use data pump with transportable table spaces to migrate an Oracle database from Linux to Windows. Transporting Tablespaces Between Databases 

Generally you can open standby databases as read only. Specifically you can open data guard standby databases as read only. Did you check to see if all of the data files exist? That a database is mounted, means that the control files are where they are supposed to be, not corrupted and your init/spfile is valid. Did you patch the Oracle Home for the standby database with the same patch as the parent? Can you force database recovery on the child to get the databases in sync. 

That is a tough one, if only there was a way to find things like that online. $URL$ Make a list of the high level objects that need, such as planes, airports, routes, people, roles, etc. Then figure out how they are related, how you identify each object and what attributes they would have. 

Looking at this quote it makes sense. If you enable archivelog on a database where it was not enabled, then any backup that you have before archive log was enabled can't be used to do a point in time recover, since you have no archive logs to rolll forward from the backup. You just have the backups and can restore to whatever warm backups that you have. If you take a database that has archive log enabled and disable archive log, then going forward you can't do point in time recover. You can only restore to whatever backups that you have. But any warm backup that you have from when the database was in archive log can be restored and rolled as far forward as you have archive logs. As far as I know both a warm full backup and incremental level 0 backup are full backups and you should be able to use either to do a full point in time restore provided that the databases were in archive log mode during the backup. Probably the biggest difference between a full backup and an incremental level 0 backup is that the incremental level 0 backup will update the block change tracking file, but I'm not sure that a full hot backup will do that. But if you want to know for certain take a database that is not in archive log mode, put it in archive log mode, do an incremental level 0 backup, drop the database and restore it. You will know for certain then.