Even though this question was requested by two people to be closed, I think it will help someone who is working with PI extensively like me. When you have a problem like this, simply download 7-zip for your system and extract the Zip file with this program. 

I have two Pi 3 running at the same time with my program being executed while both are plugged into a power source with current date and time and not connected to the Internet. Couple of days later I noticed that both pi's date and time drifted so much that it is behind by 1 or 2 days late and even the time is far off. Not only that my program, which is supposed to run 24/7, is shutdown. I am starting to think that is due date and time drifting. So, I would like to know what would cause pi system date and time to drift while it is plugged into a power source and not connected to the Internet. 

First download the latest and the greatest OS image file for your TYPE of display that specifically deals with your display. In my case, my display is capacitive touchscreen display. As it turns out, they have developed Raspbian specifically that works with my PiTFT display. So, I ended up downloading Raspbian Capacitive Display OS image off their website and unzipping the OS image file. Just simply Google it, if you are having problem finding it. It will take you right to the page. Depending on your platform, you may need to download Win32DiskImager for Windows or follow these steps if you are running anything else (linux or MacOs) to write your Raspbian image file to your SD card. Finally, write to your SD card. Then, simply insert your SD card into your Raspberry PI and turn it on. 

Then, I tried the second question I found - Connect to Raspberry PI 3 over Wi-Fi direct This question also didn't help me. Once I made the changes wpa_supplicant.conf file, it spit out all sorts of errors such as unsupported drivers, failed to add interface wlan0, etc... I simply want to setup a Ad-Hoc connection for my two PIs. So, they can communicate with each other. Any help is appreciated. UPDATE Once I set up ad-hoc on one PI, the other PI sees that network. Now, how do I use this network setup. I try to connect the non-ad-hoc PI to ad-hoc PI and it won't connect. 

I downloaded Raspbian Stretch with Desktop to install on my PI. Once it completed, I tried to extract the file, but the window complained that there is not enough space that I need some 470 GB MORE. What is going on? I simply went to $URL$ Then started to download ZIP file. Any idea. 

Although this question is very old, I would like to post my answer that I found recently. I am running Raspberry PI 2 Model B with 2.8 PiTFT capactive display. Once I figured out how to get my pitft display to work with Raspberry PI, I could not get Raspberry PI to switch over to HDMI output no matter what I did. Then, I came across this information, which worked for me. There's two ways to do it. In older Pi installs, use the fb0 framebuffer when you want to display stuff on the HDMI/TV display, for example: FRAMEBUFFER=/dev/fb0 startx will use the HDMI/TV framebuffer for X windows instead of the PiTFT On Jessie Pi installs, run sudo nano /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/99-fbdev.conf to edit the configuration file and make sure it contains: Copy Code 

=As I said in the last step, make sure to comment out everything else. Then, save your new interface file. =Then, you need to stop or disable dhcp service. This is an important step or your ad-hoc connection may not work. Stop service like so =Lastly, reboot your PIs. At boot, it should establish ad-hoc connection automatically. =Once it boots up, all the PIs should say and you should be able to PING your other PI(s). :) VERY IMPORTANT NOTE All those PIs you want to communicate through ad-hoc connection MUST have EXACTLY the same settings except for their IP addresses in their interfaces file or it won't work. That is all. 

I am planning on using the PiTFT - 2.8" TFT 320 x 240 CapacitiveTouchscreen with my Raspberry PI 2 Model B with 40 GPIO pins and would like to know how many of the 26 GPIO pins it uses even though it completely covers all 26 pins. PiTFT - 2.8" TFT 320 x 240 

I just purchased a Raspberry PI 3 and dropped my old SD card with Raspbian OS, which ran flawlessly on Raspberry PI 2, on Raspberry PI 3. It won't load or do anything. So, what version of Raspbian OS can you run on Raspberry PI 3? 

change the Option "fbdev" "/dev/fb0" line to Option "fbdev" "/dev/fb1" if you want the xdisplay on the PiTFT or fb1 to fb0 for HDMI output. Update: If don't see the code above in the file, then simply copy and paste what is shown in this answer at the bottom of that file. If you can't find 99-fbdev.conf file in that folder, then there is probably another file with different name like 10-evdev.conf in the same folder which you will have to modify to make it work as described above. 

I have managed to get two pi 3 to connect to each other through Ethernet port. Now, I want to know if I can do the same with WIFI or do I need to do anything special to have 2 PIs talking to each other over WIFI. These PIs are not going to be part of a LAN or any Network. They are only going to talk to each other through WIFI. I have looked at the other questions and I am not sure if they are asking the same thing as I am. 

My network uses static IP distrobution instead of DHCP or dynamic. So, I plugged PI 3 on the network and updated the INTERFACES file as below. 

This didn't work at all. Cron failed to execute my script completely after adding root. Then, I tried the following by adding the user 

I am running Raspbian Jessie on Raspberry PI 2 Model B along with a touchscreen. I just noticed that whenever I use the touchscreen display, mouse pointer also follows my finger tips. I don't want that. I want to be able to permanently hide the mouse pointer whenever I am using the touchscreen and be able to get it back whenever I want the mouse pointer. I keep reading about unclutter program to hide the mouse pointer, but it doesn't totally hide the mouse pointer. As long as you don't touch the screen or move the mouse, the mouse pointer is hidden by the unclutter program, but when you do it shows the pointer. At least that's what I read. Any idea? 

Right now I have 1.3.4 Mosquitto Version installed from the repository on my PI. Current version is 1.4.15. So, how do I go about upgrading my Mosquitto MQTT to the latest version on my PI? I looked around on the Internet, but I can't seem to really find any information. I also checked the PI's repository and it only has 1.3 version. Any help will be appreciated. Thanks. 

I recently downloaded the latest and greatest Raspbian OS for my PI, enabled hide function on taskbar and have installed xdotool. For what I want to use PI for, I need to have the taskbar hidden at all time even at Boot. Apparently, the latest Raspbian automatically moves the mouse pointer to startup or start button at boot. That enables the taskbar visibility. So, to avoid this I want to be able to move the mouse pointer away from the taskbar completely as soon as it boots. I have looked around on the Internet for answer, but I can't get anything working. I have tested the command I want to run on the terminal and it works as it should. First I tried Crontab: absolutely it does NOTHING at boot. Second I tried rc.local: it did nothing either. Third I put this command into a script file and tried to execute the script at reboot. It didn't work either. So, I am confused. Can someone please help me? 

This worked for me. The reason I wanted to upgrade to the latest Mosquitto MQTT was because I having problems and issues running Mosquitto 1.3. Clients kept loosing connection to the broker. Hopefully, this upgrade fixes that. Thank for your help. 

I have a working bash script and I want to run this script every minute with root privileges using crontab. I created my crontab as follows. 

I searched online high and low and came across this webpage on Mosquitto.org website. Link to where I found information on upgrading Mosquitto I am going to post what I found and how I upgraded mosquitto in case that webpage disappears. Do the following. To use the new repository you should first import the repository package signing key: 

I am running PI 3 as a standalone system. Therefore, it won't have internet connection and pi's date and time is manually set and Real Time Clock chip is used to keep the pi's date/time current. It works great. However, after running into unrelated system issues I was forced to carefully examine all the system logs in /var/logs/. I am surprised to find all kinds of error messages in those logs. Some of these system error messages are written to the log files almost every minute or once every hour. One of those error is . I am sure this can't be good especially when the whole system is running on MicroSD card. I understand why NTP daemon is posting this message, but I would like to know if there is a way to turn it off or disable the NTP daemon completely? 

Thank you for posting comments and replies. I have found the working solution and manage to get my PIs talking to each other through WIFI ad-hoc connection as follows. =Make sure to backup like =Then, edit the file =Make sure you have the following in the file and everything else commented out. Side note: don't include the comment with arrow and dashes I added that to point out what you should do and not do. 

This works. I see that my script is being run every minute. However, some of the lines of code in my script need to have root privileges to run. So, my script fails as a result even though it is being run every minutes. Then, I did what others suggested online. 

Right now on my PI, anytime I open a window it has its own button on the taskbar. If I open 10 more windows, there will be 10 more buttons on the taskbar. I simply want to group them into single button. So, when I click on this button, it will popup list of all the opened windows. Where is the option to have PI do this? 

I am totally confused with setting up Internet connection for my PI 3. My router is setup for static IP distribution. So, all the ip addresses are fixed for each and every devices on my Network including my PI. The usual way I setup Internet Connection for my PI 3 is as follows. File: /etc/network/interfaces 

Okay, I am very much a NEWBIE when it comes to these type of connections. So, I searched on this website on how to be able to do this and I came across two promising questions and answers. However, they don't seem to be helping. First, I tried the following question's answer. Ad-hoc setup for pi 3 All I see is a tooltip saying the following for both PI 3 but with different ip address. With this setup, I can't make PIs talk to each other. I don't even know if they see each other even though they are supposed to be on the same network SSID (thayanet). I can't even PING from each other. 

This works partially. My PI 3 is able to ping any computers connected to my network, but when I tell it go out on the Internet it fails. I don't know why this is. 

On Raspberry PI 2 Model B, I am using 2.8 piTFT capacitive display. Plus, I used DIY installer helper on the adafruit website. Everything seem to have installed correctly and the screen comes up except TOUCHSCREEN feature is not working. I checked to make sure the drivers and libraries were installed. They are installed except for stmpe_ts and touchscreen (/dev/input/touchscreen). They are missing. I don't know how or where to download this from. Does anyone have any idea. Why? 

I have two PI 2 connected to each other directly and they do communicate with each other no problem. However, whenever the network cable is disconnected physically from their Ethernet port, Wired Network connection for that PI doesn't re-establish when the cable is plugged back in. At that point, you have to open the network GUI and click on connect button. I am trying to mimic a network connection loss and implement automatic reconnect feature in my program whenever network cable is plugged back in. So, how do you tell Raspbian to keep the network connection alive or reconnect as soon as the cable is plugged back in? UPDATE: 

I need to download an operating system for my raspberry pi that works with pitft and I found two different version on PI's website - full version and Lite-based. So, what is Lite-based OS as supposed to Full version... First instance, here is the link for the download page. It says Download Jessie and Download Lite-Jessie... $URL$ So, I need to know if they are the same and it will work with my 3.5 pitft display. 

I have a program that runs on Raspberry PI that is completely depended on localtime. Otherwise, it will completely FAIL. On a Linux system like Magiea, it doesn't have any issues running as it should. However, when the same program is run on Raspberry PI, it FAILS. So, I am thinking it has to do with system time. Is it true that Raspberry PI uses UTC time instead of localtime for its system time even though you have set your local date and time? 

I am very new to tightvncserver on Raspberry PI. So, I researched online and I am still confused. First, I came across this webpage How to setup tightvncserver on Raspberry PI website about tightvncserver and I did not find any option in the Raspi-Config to enable tightvncserver. So, I ended up manually installing tightvncserver and don't know how to start or set it up. I tried to connect to PI's tightvncserver using tigervncviewer and it refused to connect. Could someone please give me some guidance. I am running Raspbian Jessie. 

I need to examine how my CPU is performing. I could simply open the task manager, but I will have to sit in front of the monitor long time. My problem is that CPU seems to be spiking or overloading and crashing all the programs that are running. So, I want to be able to log it somewhere say every second or so. Is there way to log CPU load? 

I am currently running Raspbian on Raspberry PI 3 and the SD memory card I've been using as hardrive on my pi is somehow got damaged probably from using it for a very long time. Whenever I boot or turn my pi on, on the display it says among other things memory location is not readable OR Failed mounting SD Card. Then, it eventually times out waiting at the Console Prompt. No GUI is loaded. Well, after this, I would power recycle the PI again hoping that Raspbian Desktop will be loaded. Desktop may or may not load. I power recycle it again. Eventually, everything goes through and Raspbian Desktop is finally loaded. I've done a lot of work on this Raspbian PI in setting it up. If and when the SD card finally FAILS COMPLETELY, I will loose a lot and will have to start from scratch building it back again. I have thought about Cloning and I do clone PI's SD card using Win32DiskImager on window. This program is fantastic. However, when I try to clone the damaged SD Card, it fails and reports that some of the memory location is not READABLE. Even though I have all the files from the damaged SD card saved and/or backed up, I will loose all the setup and settings for a lot of programs I downloaded and installed. So, my question is this. Can you backup or save the current session? So, I can save the programs setups or settings for installed programs.