We see that here. Don't worry about the that's just cmd trying to show UTF-8 BOM. That's not the issue I have. 

Here is the batch file. At one time it was much simpler. But I wanted to add e.g. GB and KB .. and that takes up most of the batch file. It's very future proof because even if Chrome took up a bunch of yottabytes (a yottabyte is million trillion megabytes) then my batch should or at least, is written, to support that. The basis of how the internals of the batch file works is simple.. It creates some temp files.. which you can look at.. You see it basically outputs a list of all the processes, filters out the ones for chrome.exe grabs just the part that states how many bytes it uses. Then the last temp file you can output you see it just has a list of all the bytes used by each chrome.exe process, with any commas or spaces removed, and then a for statement sums them all. The last temp file could be opened in excel.. though there isn't a need to. You see how to use the bat file, just run it and see what it outputs. You don't need to know how it works, but that's how it works. You see from looking at the temp files it generates. 

I can't see anything consuming a lot of memory, other than skype and chrome Sometimes if something is taking a long time and not showing progress I can see a file being written, and if I know how big the file might be then I can get an idea of how much is done. If updates haven't been done for a long time on this machine might it be 10 hours. There are 10GB free on the hard drive I wonder if by the end of it i'll have nothing left. It has gone from 9 point something GB to 8.8GB Might this be an overnight thing? like 8+ hours? Or is that unheard of? 

I wonder if it's the MTU size set in Windows. I saw lots of TCP retransmissiosn and TCP dup ack.. (don't recall TCP out-of-oder) but I saw those when my router had an MTU of 1500 and they went when I gave it an MTU of 1400 at the advice of my router manufacturer. You could call your router manufacturer and ISP and see if they have any advice (even though/'if' it is a windows issue) I know this isn't your router that is the issue, but Windows also has an MTU setting. This may not work, but it is worth trying to change it in Windows. $URL$ 

You ask about Sendmail.. I know very little of these email related linux programs, but Sendmail does have an SMTP client, though it's mostly an MTA(and any program that can function as an MTA can function as an MSA, an MSA is just a form of MTA). You ask if it's possible to send directly to the destination domain's MTA, if there are no security checks. I think i've done it once MUA to MTA, just one SMTP server involved, so yes. But normally it's the MSA on your local domain that sends it to the MTA there.So normally there are two SMTP Servers involved. I think what I did to see that, was I ran an MSA SMTP server sendmail or postfix, saw it doing a DNS check on the domain and saw it finding a destination MTA(another SMTP server). Then I thought heh i'll try sending it directly. And for one domain I wanted to send to, I could connect directly to that destination MTA. 

I don't know that much about it but I think I can answer that one quite clearly. If A wants to send a message to B, A uses B's public key. That is how B is then able to decrypt it. If A used his own public key to encrypt the message, then indeed, B would not be able to decrypt it. That is explained here $URL$ 

scope is global/ variable is shared as you say..so to echo you, yes. also, if you use setx it will work for the next cmd session and future ones because it's in the registry., but set and setx aren't to be compared in discussion of scope. environment variables are generally global. But you can use setlocal in a batch file at the start and the variables set there remain local 

Suggestions-not in any particular order.. obviously consider the difficulty of the suggestion / time it takes / amount of bother / likelyhood, and do them / troubleshoot in an order according to such factors). Try another host with that file - could be a free hosted web server with the file. Try it from a Virtual Machine, try different operating systems in the virtual machine. Try it from another computer attached to your router(quick and easy to try). Try another router. If possible, try another ISP(in the UK, while DSL is contract, dialup is PAYG and one can pick any). You could take all your hardware(router,cable,computer etc) (easier if laptop produces same issue) to a friend's place he may have a different ISP. Try booting off a Live CD Try with wget, and this has the added advantage that you can manually enter a header. download gnuwin32, with coreutils and wget. (coreutils isn't necessary but it's useful). you may be able to experiment with that like with the Content-Encoding header. It could also be something at their end, as you only mention HostB. So try another host e.g. HostB2, and try connecting to HostB and a Host B2, from another computer like I see you tried this from work. Try it from home, connecting to HostB. 

That which is quoted directly above, has solved it for many people, perhaps for anybody. Hopefully samsung tech support will take note 'cos it had stumped them. So the comment points out that it's through 3 layers with titles including the term "BBS priorities". the original poster said that the option is called "boot override". BTW Another user says this of the series 5 aptio bios. 

trigger it again, so it goes slow, check the ram in task manager, maybe a lot is in use at the time of the slowness, or hdd space left, maybe there wasn't much left. maybe it's the pagefile/virtual memory. and there was some change there, and a change back. windows can change it automatically sometimes. could check cpu temp too, see if it is different, but that may be that it is working harder.. some process using it a lot - that would explain slowness, task manager would show that cpu utilization for any process.