supper glue them together (blocks more light) 3.5) if you have a back layer repeat. sometimes a piece of pcb glued in between top and bottom can make a jig to slide your copper clad into to ensure alignment between layers. this is crucial if you have actual traces on the back. if the back is all ground it doesnt matter so much. if you miss and drill out the side of a pretty much flat pcb..i dont know what to tell you 

dawn gloves -scrub your copper clad (green dish pad and ajax/commit) rinse grab another pad and acetone can. Scrub with acetone. Its clean enough when a paper towel/white cloth and acetone do not turn grey. set it somewhere clean and dry when finished, you will need it again soon Get yourself under LED or very dim incandesnt light. Remove Riston film from its roll tube. LED is the way to go as they emit only a narrow band of color in lights and no UV. LED lights are usually safe full brightness for handling the UV sensitive film. Once under suitable light, cut yourself a square of film the size of your copper clad. cut another if you are doing double sided. If your house is a grow op and you have grow leds everywhere...stop this process and move out before you get busted. also... you just exposed all your film. cut a piece of clear tape. stick clear tape in corner of uv film and rip away quickly. The uv/riston film has 2 protective films (each side) we need to remove one and this is the quickest way. Lay film on copper clad, (side you just took protective film off down.) you will know what is film and what is protective layer because film is blue, or maybe green depending on brand, protective is always clear. laminate film to copper clad. I use the amazon basics cheap laminator. note: To avoid air bubbles I like to take the protective layer off one side of film, Place Copper Clad in a tray of distilled water, Float the film on top of water and pull board up to it (gloved hands, oils will mess things up). After that i send it through laminator. Some people find ways w/o water. that just works best for me. Bubbles are bad. 

As I have already commented, I may be running into this issue shortly, as I am planning on using a Razberry, a RPi dongle for use with Z-Wave home automation devices. The partial answer to your question, and I am paraphrasing it heavily, "Is lib8 on my machine, and if not how do I get it on there?", may be found in a small, typo riddled, article from the Razberry support pages, Will Z-Way run on my specific platform?/How to check is v8 runs on my platform?[sic] 

Try typing . The man pages give you a complete list of the options that a command can take, and an explanation of what they do. In the case of : 

The source code is written in C. Look at the BlueZ download site, and follow the links to the source code on github 

If you do not have to authenticate, add the following lines to the following files: For general browsing, in add 

Use . This should give you the data that you require and enable you to determine which FD points to which device. 

Looking at WiFi country code resets, it seems that the Wi-Fi Country Code menu to which you refer, by default, the version of Jessie that you have, displays Andorra, even if the actual country code is set to something different, which indeed sounds like a bug. However, if you look at the actual config file, what country code is listed? 

I have one of the newer Raspberry Pi 2 B, and wish to install Pidora. I have downloaded Pidora-2014-R3 (the [latest?] version available from the front page of the Pidora site) and copied it on to a microSD card, and inserted it into the microSD slot on the RPi. When I power up the Pi, the green LED lights momentarily, but then goes out and the RPi does not boot. I have followed the installation instructions from Pidora as well as the two guides from Raspberry Pi Documentation: Installing Operating System Images on Mac OS - and Installing Operating System Images using Windows. I have tried both copying Pidora on to the microSD cad from both a MacBook Pro, using the various command line methods, and a Windows 7 laptop, using the Fedora ARM Installer. The microSD card is fine as I have checked it with h2testw and also, if I copy Wheezy onto it then it boots sans problème. I have also formatted it correctly, using SDFormatter. Why will Pidora not boot on a RPi 2? 

is usually declared in . If you haven't deleted that file or its symlink at or removed the directive in it, that's where the directory is configured. If you've put your into , but haven't called afterwards (which will create an according symlink in , it won't be recognized. 

You can use (usually blue coloured) USB 3.x ports (at least those marked with a battery symbol) if your PC has one. They can provide more than the 500mA of a normal USB 2.x port. I have an internal USB 3.x hub in my PC which suffices to power an Raspberry Pi 3 in most cases. (Occassionally under heavy load the symbol for not enough power showed up on the screen, but it never crashed or rebooted because of that.) At least Thinkpads (maybe also other devices) also have yellow coloured USB ports (see $URL$ which can also provide power if the laptop is not on. That's probably also to consider when choosing which USB socket to use to power an Raspberry Pi. 

I've tried labeling them with tiny, usually two-line labels printed with a Brother P-Touch series label printer. But I actually was stumbling upon this posting because I was looking for another solution. Such labels printed are small enough to fit onto a microSD card and thin enough to work with most (normal-size) SD card slots or readers, so that method is fine for older Raspberry Pis. But those labels already too thick for most microSD card slots, at least for those on the Raspberry Pi 2 and 3. They either shave off when putting the microSD card into the slot, or, if I managed that, they're much harder to get out again, especially with the Raspberry Pi 3 which has no more counter spring inside the slot. So I wonder: Are the super-thin label tapes for Brother P-Touch printers which do not shave off from microSD cards? Because in general I'm very happy with that way to get my microSD cards organized. 

Misc things you need are: ajax/commit cleaner acetone from hardware store green dish pad(not used) rubber gloves(disposable) dremel, hand drill or drill press soldering iron for assembling board after(probably figured that ) process: So, if you put that kit together with an order or two and getting what you had in one pile... the process is: PRINT: 1. design in CAD software 2. export/print 2 copies of negative on transparency film 

you can do multiple boards and store them for a few months if you want a ready to go supply. just keep them in a light proof container. expose 1)put transparency over/over and under(2 sided) your riston coated Copper clad 2)sandwitch between glass sheets 3) bring outside to expose 4)set in dark for 15 min to let chemical/plastic stuff happen 5)drop in developer and brush gently w/soft brush or gloved finger tip for 1min. You will start to see the areas that were exposed get washed away/ come off and the rest stays. This is your "acid resist" pattern. 6) rinse under tap water or distilled to stop the developer Etch 7) drop in acid tank for 15ish min 8) remove and rinse with h2o to stop acid 9) drop in acetone or scrub acetone and green pad to remove the resist and reveal the shiny copper wires/traces/pads you just created on your board 10) scrub with like 5% hcl and water to remove copper salt deposits that dont come off with just water. 11) wash your hands, secure chemicals or decide life isnt worth it and drink them etc etc. 12) drill holes through layers. solder on parts...etc. obviously some googling on board etching will be required but I highly recommend you try it. Unlike sending out and waiting a week, a mistake can be corrected and new boards made in 20min to an hr for just a few dollars of waste board. If you make a mistake on a board you had professionally done; you might be out a few hundred. 

The difference between including the option or not, is slight, and is irrelevant in this case, as you can't poweroff the Pi anyway, not without manually removing the USB power. 

If that still says Andorra, then you may be better off setting the correct code in this file manually and ignoring the GUI menu, for the time being. I would also ensure that you have the latest update, as the issue that you have found may already be fixed: 

If you have to authenticate, add the following lines to the following files: For general browsing, in add 

I'm not sure if this is a trick question, but the answer is "Yes". Here is a lazy google based answer: 

Looking at WiFi country code resets, it seems that the Wi-Fi Country Code menu to which you refer, by default, the version of Jessie that you have, displays Andorra, even if the actual country code is set to something different, which indeed sounds like a bug. However, if you look at the actual config file, what country code is listed? 

Surely any OS would do, so long as it supports Java (i.e. it has a JRE), you can specify which binaries execute upon startup and it supports OpenCV - which is all of the common Pi OSes. As you will only be running this app, you don't need an OS with every service installed, nor would you require a desktop environment, just a minimal setup. You should google for "lightweight linux for Pi" to see the full range of options, as it is difficult to give you a single answer without it being an opinion. Nevertheless, some of your options would include: 

Glass to sandwitch your transparancy and the copper blank when exposing. Do not use plexi it will block uv. Just take the glass from 2 picture frames and you are set. transparency film for your printer type. A lot of people again go to witch doctor land here. I highly recommend you go inkjet for printer type then pick up Fixxions brand screen printing transparencies. I bought like 5 kinds, then found that the screen printing comunity had the answer $URL$ they have a coating that is designed to be clear and make the printer ink stick just like the paper it was made for. Beautifully dense/dark and never runs. Those are the two qualities you want because one equals minimum spacing resolution and the other would equal holes in your copper where you dont want it as the printed transparency determines where the etch resist stays on the board during exposure. 

first I just realized you are over thinking the heck out of it. There are chinese hardware .264 usb cameras that are just board and lense mount like the pi cam for 30 bucks. grab 2 of them and a pi cam. they have 1080p versions for like 20usd more. I've ran 3 cams on a pi 3 before. 2 of them were usb with out compression one was the pi cam. I then bought 2 of the cams i described and framerate was way better. I could stream like 15fps over wifi/lan when all cams were .h264. unless you want a flying robot this should be sufficent with out using the compute module. One thing you need to do is set the program you use to do the recording (likely "motion") to record to a ram drive. If you do not do this you will burn up your flash cards quick if you have your heart set on compute module(its a mistake for what you have described): imho you are going to pay through the nose for pre made boards to use with the compute module. a board consists of 6 voltage supplies, which costs $18 bucks of IC at most, if you want nice parts and are just ordering one of each. it can probably be done for $10 if not less say each usb port costs you a $1 and the hdmi costs $them 3. There are some passives and rfi and static/esd chips but places like ada fruit charging what they do for the mobo is nuts. The ddr port it plugs into is maybe $3 bucks. the little connectors you need for the cams maybe cost $0.75 flex connectors is what you should search. . eagle cad has a free version, they also have versions one my make a choice to acquire with a vpn. Kicad is completely free cad software one or the other will likely fit your current mind set better. There are part libraries for both and sites like Digikey have a checkbox to search parts with included CAD models. honestly you are best off learning to input a part from the data sheet/scratch. My first pcb took more time finding pre made parts than if i had just suffered that learning curve if you google something like "pi compute 3 minimum host eagle cad "(or kicad). you may find someone has provided a file with the psu components and the ddr2 socket already laid out. from there you will need a flex connector for the cammera. Datasheets are your friend. They tell you about the part and its connectors. most connectors have a name and pin count. this enables you to search for and buy them. cad programs have an option called "generate BOM" or something similar. Its Bill of materials. If you find a file with the basics laid out, outputing the BOM tells you what you need to order for their design. when it comes to getting a pcb made you have several options in us and china. osh park has like 5 day turnaround and priced 5 bucks per square in of pcb. This is for a 2 layer pcb and you get 3 copies of your pcb for that price.. if you dont mind waiting a month some pcb houses found on ebay will do it for less. keep in mind, working with a company in the developing world whos employees may or may not " the english so good" can add a layer of difficulty path less traveled is to etch @ home. I had plexi laying around when I got into etching. One can assemble a thin vertical tank with plexi and paint thinner (or solvent glue). tanks can be had for about a hundo premade. At the bottom you place an airline and use an aquarium pump to bubble air through your acid. Go with cupric chloride and your etchant(acid) will be reusable indefinitely because air regens it. almost every etchant becomes illegal to dump down drain after it eats copper off the board. the nice thing with cupric is its reusable so you never have to pay to get rid of it(assuming you may etch again) Cupric Chloride can be made from Pool Acid(30%hcl) bits of copper wire weighted out and hyrdogen peroxide Hair bleach (volume 40 is the product name). Alternatively the 3% peroxide from drugstore will work but it will take about a week of bubbling air to get the chemistry right. the "volume 40" is like 15% peroxide and you will be ready to go that day. There are 2 main choices for how to make the mask/template which will protect the copper we want to remain on pcb etched @home. What isnt covered will get eaten/etched away by acid. the blank pcb is called a copper clad. I will refer to it as such for the rest of this. choice 1) toner transfer. One needs a laser printer, an iron or cheap ($25 ish) laminator a witch doctor and said witchdoctors recommendation on what special paper to try to get the best results. He or she may later tell you that the printer brand you have has angered the spirits. I recommend skipping this method. choice 2) uv photolithography. this is what the industry uses and by far produces better results if done with care. It is also repeatable with the same printed transparency choice 1 is not you will need a printer for either choice. UVlith process is compatible with inkjet or laser. If you are in the market there is a 3rd option which requires a lot of DIY to your printer, but may allow direct printing of pattern to Copper clad. With that in mind, when i needed a printer for the lith process I bought an epson c88+. Printers that can use pigment inks are key but im not going to cover the 3rd method/direct print here. I just mentioned that printer because its cheap, it works and it may have that advantage later if you look into it. List of stuff needed for UV - Lithography 

There are not really enough details in your question to find the source of the failing graphical login, but usually something important for the X session doesn't start up properly and hence the session setup fails and you're back at the login screen. To debug such issues further, have a look at the end of the log file . Maybe you want to add your findings to the posting retro-actively so you can get better fitting and less generic answers. One guess though: Did you make the default , too? Because that's not supported by since its compatibility mode is not good enough for such a purpose. 

It seems you initially installed Raspbian Lite which does not come with a GUI by default. You at least need to install the package xinit (e.g. using ) so that can find . But you very likely need to install more packages to get a usable GUI on Raspbian Lite, e.g. . 

Triggerhappy is only used in raspi-config's init script, see line 17 of the init script. There it checks if any of the Shift keys is hold down at boot time to disable the ondemand scaling governor. That means that itself does not really need triggerhappy, just its boot up script. And the way that script uses doesn't seem to need the daemon running. 

You could tell the syslog daemon (on Raspbian the package rsyslog is used by default) to write according log messages also to which is the currently active text console under Linux. (This assumes that no X is running. If you have X running, there is a tool called in the package x11-apps which shows these messages in an X window.) Additionally you might need to either disable screen blanking permanently (may damage your screen) or make the screen unblank in case of such an event. The commands to control screen blanking are under X and the on the Linux text consoles. I though do not know how to trigger a command if a specific message is written to the syslog. One solution might be to also pipe these log messages into a script which checks every input line for the according messages and calls the above mentioned commands if a match is found. 

then it will execute binaries, of the same name, which are in in preference to those in , for example. If you modify your (or .) and then save it, re-source it with , and then type , to confirm that your path has been changed. If I understand correctly, as both of the binaries that you want to use are in , then this should fix your problem. NOTE: The fact that they are links to other locations does not matter, in this case, as neither of them point to , or any other directory in your path. 

However, the SHELL will use the first binary that it finds (when searching through the paths in the PATH environment variable, so if you put /usr/local/bin at the start, like so 

There are many different types ranging from $1 to $5, depending if you want a single display, a dual display, as pictured, or up to a quad display that also shows power (Watts) and charge (Coulombs) 

The GIT repositories on kernel.org contain the source files. Taking one at random, i.e., a/src/gatt-database.c b/src/gatt-database.c, you can see that it is written in C. 

If that still says Andorra, then you may be better off setting the correct code in this file manually and ignoring the GUI menu, for the time being. I would also ensure that you have the latest update, as the issue that you have found may already be fixed: 

Whilst your question has nothing to do with the Pi, I will quickly point out what you are looking for. I, rather extensively, looked into this a while back, and blogged about a number of XBee modules than can do this, see Using XBee 868 as R/C. However, there are a few caveats, the main one being that as the power used is very high, there is only a 10% duty cycle. This, effectively, means that after 6 minutes the XBee will shut down, and not work again, until 54 minutes later. This is due to some legal reason (FCC/ETSI rules?) There are ways around this, by having some external circuitry that can reset the XBee to make it think that it is starting afresh. Also, there was an issue related to the quality of the video, as bandwidth was not sufficient. In addition, 900 MHz devices are for the US, whilst 866 MHz are for the rest of the world (apart from a few other places where civilian use of the 900 MHz bandwidth is permitted), due to conflicting bandwidth with GSM/3G mobile networks. See XBee Pro 866/900 MHz, or similar, but you will only have a 10% duty cycle. See XBee Guide. NOTE This post is a work in progress and I am trying to find all of the links that I found a year ago. 

In the O'Reilly book "Raspberry Pi Hacks" there is Hack 40 "Make Your Pi Water-Resistant (Without a Case)" in which they describe how they make a Raspberry Pi temporarily water-resistant using Rustoleum's NeverWet paint. Then I got my hands on a (not so limited?) matte-black Pimoroni Pibow Midnight case. But as can be seen on this image the green PCB of the Raspberry Pi shines through. So I wondered how it might look like if I'd paint the Raspberry Pi in matte-black, too. Hence my question is: Is it safe to paint the Raspberry Pi in a different color and if so, is there (preferably matte-black) color/varnish/coating which is (preferably explicitly) non-conductive and could be used to give a Raspberry Pi PCB and its chips a different color? So far I only found this thread on the web but most replies seem to be about wrapping stuff in tape to hide the PCB. Another web page touches the topic, but only lists material, no actual product or so. Side questions: Anyone did something like this already? Any side effects on the cooling? 

I have no experience with the Matchbox Window Manager, but I always use the Ratpoison Window Manager (package "ratpoison" in Raspbian/Debian/Ubuntu) for such purposes. Ratpoison makes any window full-screen by default and only adds a 1 pixel border by default -- but it can be configured to have no border at all. Putting into should suffice for that. 

Today I stumbled upon the WDLabs Media Stick for the Raspberry Pi Compute Module at the ModMyPi Online Store and was immediately reminded of the Intel Compute Sticks or the ASUS Stick PCs. But the WDLabs Media Stick doesn't seem to be powered over HDMI as it still needs a 5V input over a Micro-USB socket according to the (very short) PDF manual. So I wonder: Is it possible with some intermediate board to power a Raspberry Pi Zero or a Raspberry Pi Compute Module from the HDMI port of a TV? (I imagine this intermediate board to be similar to those Power-over-Ethernet adapters you can get for the normal Raspberry Pi.) There is an rather old thread on this topic on the Raspberry Pi forums which says it's impossible. But given some of the comments in there about e.g. the MHL standard and the fact that the Raspberry Pi Zero didn't exist back then, I expect that most information in that thread is outdated. Also the claim that HDMI sinks can only provide about 50mA (which is about the amount of power two keyboard LEDs consume) seems to invalidated by the pure existence of the Intel Compute Stick. But another not so old thread on Quora comes to the same conclusion: HDMI only offers 50mA. Or is maybe my assumption wrong that the Intel Compute Stick and similar devices are powered over the HDMI port? Because they're usually advertised as "just plug it into an HDMI TV or monitor and start working" which suggests that no additional power supply is necessary. Then again, MHL seems to provide between 500mA (MHL 1) to 2A (MHL 3) over an HDMI connector. So in theory it should be possible to power even an Raspberry Pi 2 over an MHL connector if there's an intermediate board which takes care that both HDMI signal and power are connected to the correct sockets or GPIO pins on the Raspberry Pi. Anyone already did something like that? Or is there already a ready to use board/HAT/pHAT for that? Actually the ZeroStem follows a similar idea, just with USB instead of HDMI, i.e. making a USB stick out of the Raspberry Pi Zero. At least the thought of having a Rasperry Pi Zero W with a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse which just connects to the MHL-enabled HDMI port (and really nothing else ;-) of a TV to start working sounds like a really nice setup.