has -C, --directory DIR: change to directory DIR. Does pax have something similar? This can be useful for backing up directory structures/hierarchies in a relative fashion, such as , instead of , or restoring from inside a directory other than $TARGET_DIR. I normally use pax in ustar (default) format, or sometimes cpio. 

I want to transfer directories and files under 'company?' non-recursively. This (so far) appears to do what I am after: 

I'm trying to determine if sed is faster reading from stdin (with shell redirection < ) or by specifying the file from which sed should read. I didn't find a definitive answer on Google. Which is faster? 

Using vim (or vi) I want to align the sections with to the same column number. What's the easiest and fastest way to do this? (ignore the ugly bits for now) 

I had to add a static route to my wireless router BACK to the 192.168.2.0/24 network via 192.168.1.103 (laptop). Now windows can browse web via lappy! SOLVED 

edit: I want to extra and and directory contains directory with 20 files. I want to extract only member and and directory and copy them to another "remote_host" using ssh/scp. Can this be done as a one-liner? I considered using , , or but I guess I'm not very skilled with these utilities yet. 

I want to create multiple time fields that will display the current time when you click on it, but won't update when I update the auto increment fields I'm using in the same document. I need something like the date picker content control. I had hope when I saw you could display the date as but it's kind of pointless, because it only ever displays as. Is there a way I can get the date picker to show the current time when you click on "today" or is there something else I can do? 

I've created a macro that adds a page at the end of a document and changes the title text in the Header. I want to be able to add multiple pages and have the letter in the title auto-increment: SCHEDULE 'A' SCHEDULE 'B' SCHEDULE 'C' etc. I tried using an AUTONUM field, but I get a notification that says, "Main Document Only." 

It does this regardless of how many documents I merge at once, but doesn't do it when I save the documents as PDF individually. Removing the content control resolves the issue, but I have hundreds of documents using the same template, and I'm not about to go through and edit them one by one. Acrobat should be able to merge my documents without altering them in the process. What's going on here and how do I prevent Acrobat from inserting these characters? I'm on Windows 10, using the latest update of Adobe Acrobat Pro DC (Installed using Creative Cloud) and Windows Office 2010. 

I installed Notepad++ 6.0 and the Explorer Plugin. When I right click a file in the side window, I don't get options for TortoiseSVN. When right clicking on a file in Windows Explorer, I do see options for TortoiseSVN. Any ideas on why this might be? 

I download all files in remote dir1/. They are downloaded to a directory which contains hundreds of files. I need to copy the file to a remote "archive" directory. I need to delete the file from dir1/ (above). 

I'm trying to sync a large tree on Linux, but include and exclude certain files/directories. My question is regarding rsync's --relative option and how relative paths are handled. Directory structures appear something like: 

I'm having trouble finding a way to transfer a file from dir1/file to dir2/ using sftp protocol. I"ve tried because I need to provide password non-interactively, and public/private keys aren't available for me. 's is available, but it requires public/private key auth. I cannot use 's , , or . In the man page, seems promising: 

I've been trying a combination of LEFT, MID, RIGHT, SEARCH, and LEN text functions to try and get what I want, looking at examples from here for help, but I can't get anything to work the way I want to. I'm hoping there's some kind of function that can accomplish the task. Something as simple as: 

You can't adjust character spacing in Excel, and I've already tried a number of different fonts, but it still looks awful. What's causing this and how do I fix it? 

How do you insert ordinal indicators into date picker content controls that will show the date like: 

How do you calculate the current age of an individual based off of their birthdate in MS Access? I've tried But that only returns how old they will be that calendar year, so if they haven't had their birthday yet then it's inacurate. How can you calculate their age based of what calendar day it is? 

I've tried but using doesn't work in content controls like it works in date fields. Can you use ordinal indicators in the date picker content control? 

It can be done with other tools, but I am interested to know how can I delete all but the last X lines of the file with . 

I'm trying to copy the contents of a series of directories non-recursively to another remote system. 

dir1, dir2, and dir3 contain many directories that I do not want copied. Copy on the remote host to /dirB maintaining the same directory structure. I tried: 

I have been reading the rsync man page, but I'm not clear on whether I should use the --backup-dir option or the --copy-dest option I'll have a command similar to 

Puppet is a configuration management software which is capable of configuring a fleet of servers automatically by reading Puppet Manifests files. Such a file could include a definition of your /etc/sudoers file, which can then be pushed out to all your puppet "agents" from your puppet "master". Then all hosts will get the same copy of your /etc/sudoers file, which can (and should) include HOST definitions, so you can grant some users some commands on some hosts (but not on others). 

I'm creating a new template for an 8.5x11 document, but I want the cover page to be printed on 11x17, so I can fold the cover page over document like a book cover, with the cover page printed on the front. Is this doable? If so, how do I go about this? 

One solution I've come up with–though not the ideal solution, more like a cheap work-around–is to manually input the first list number of your nested list and format it to look like your list numbers, then use SHIFT+ENTER to put a hard break in your first line, and use tabs to adjust the other lines in that list item. 

But if I could figure out how to do it by the last two spaces only, then I could get the municipalities in one column, and the populations in a another. 

When I combine multiple word documents into a single PDF, there is one content control in the header in each document that Acrobat is inserting the characters "48T" before the text.