You could install rdesktop $URL$ then connect to it via a Windows computer configuring the session to move audio to the remote computer? 

Not sure if this is a particular solution but 1200PDI is a lot my only thought could be sending that size of packet across an Ethernet network. In one continuous block. Have you tested it to make sure if works locally? Are there many devices in your LAN? 

If I have understood your description properly, it. Formatting of a disk takes space, normally about the amount you are suggesting. What is how if you get an iPod say, it's 8GB you only get about 6.8 usable, as the formatting is taking up space. Alternatively try running CCleaner. 

If the problem is anything to do with codec which it does sound like, try this as a work around. Install and use VLC Media Player, plays anything/ 

Yes you can I would imagine if it is like any other device. How was it interrupted when updating? If a firmware update gets to a certain point and fail it can leave the device with no software at all. Meaning you now own a HP brick. Give HP a call them might offer further support. 

Unless I am missing something you could use EFS..... You could achieve you emails in to a folder, then encrypt using EFS (remember to backup the certificate) Totally encrypted, to my knowledge that is the only other option you have sort of encrypting the whole drive with BitLocker or something like that. 

I have a Philips SHB8850NC bluetooth headset. When I'm playing audio through this device, if I click on the 'recording' tab, the audio mutes. As soon as I change the tab back again, the audio resumes. There is a slight static click when I switch the tab. I'm not sure what this means, but thought it was worth noting as it is audibly different from performing a software mute button on e.g. my keyboard (which mutes/unmutes without static click). I also noticed that occasionally while communicating over via headset plugged into the 3.5mm audio jack of my laptop, people would complained about my voice being extremely soft. When I clicked on the recording tab, it would fix the volume until I changed tabs. What is going on here? Is this intentional design (and if so what is the rationale)? Is there a way to prevent it? I am frequently fiddling with my microphone settings because of the above and it would be nice to be able to do so without muting my audio. 

Computers, what fun. *(right click on desktop, select resolution (W7) or properties (XP), press alt-space, press m, press an arrow key (cursor should now disappear). Move cursor around until screen resolution dialog returns to your visible screen. 

Hotplug functionality also seems completely spastic. Sometimes after connecting the external monitor I simply cannot enable it until I reboot (NVidia settings will silently fail, attemping to enable the external and click apply in windows resolution settings shows a messagebox saying "The settings could not be saved") This is pretty disappointing to me. Is there a way I can force the WQXGA display mode? I've tried to create a custom resolution but it says it is not supported - I haven't tweaked the timing issues because I don't understand them and frankly if I wanted to I would be installing linux. 

Partition 5 for example starts at sector 3919923 and contains 15631182 sectors. Each sector has 512 bytes. You have to write down the start sector and size of your partition. Be sure to write it down in a way you can read it later. ;-) After that you can erase sda4 and create a new sda4 at the end of the disk having the same size. Now you can move the contents of the old sda4 to the new sda4 by the following command: 

I have an audio connector on board (Asus P8H67-I) and an USB audio card (Teufel). How can I use the two devices simultaneously? As far as I can see I have to set one device to the standard output device. I am looking for a way to set both to the standard output device in order to hear on both the same sound. Any ideas? 

In the beginning (long ago before the BSD IPsec implementation has been integrated into the Linux kernel) it was not possible to use a IPsec VPN over a NAT gateway, because it was not possible to NAT IPsec. IPsec has been developed for IPv6, which does not know NAT anymore and using IPsec for IPv4 has always been some kind of hack. Not having NAT for the so called road warriors using IPv4 was a no-go. The only way to get it working in the 90th was to use L2TP, because L2TP works on top of UDP and NAT is possible. Cisco picked up this solution and implemented it in their VPN-Concentrators. This is the time it became a "standard". And in order to be compatible with Cisco many other vendors implemented it. That is the reason why Apple implemented it and why Android supports it, too. But tunneling layer 2 Ethernet frames through the IPsec tunnel has never been a great idea for an IP only communication. In the 90th there were other protocols which needed bridging like IPX but nowadays everybody speaks IP. And in order to get rid of the layer 2 frame overhead RFC 3948 proposed the "UDP Encapsulation of IPsec ESP Packets". This works also by putting the ESP and AH protocols in UDP packets and by this NAT is possible. But it avoids any layer 2 frames. This is the modern solution everybody should try first. Using L2TP is the legacy way, which exists only for backward compatibility. 

I'm using Windows 7 Running Chrome 38.0.2125.111 m, Google Hangouts plugin 2014.910.433.1. I'm experiencing the behaviour whereby if I disable notifications for a particular person, it makes me invisible to them. I'd prefer this to not happen. (At face value it seems like odd behaviour but on reflection it seems in line with the rest of the design decisions that have gone into the product). Is there a way to disable it from happening? edit: I'm trying to disable notifications by unticking the 'Notifications' checkbox in this option for that user: 

I have a W540 laptop which uses an optimus setup (NVIDIA K2100M and Intel HD Graphics Family (I would like to once again applaud Intel in coming up with such an obscured/generic name for their video adapter) A few weeks ago while I was connected a projector (via a mini-displayport to d-sub adapter, as the inherent d-sub in my laptop did not appear to work), I attempted to adjust the gamma on the NVIDIA Control panel to compensate for the poor quality of the projector. Unfortunately now, every time I plug/unplug an external monitor, the gamma (and possibly other display settings) change to show a washed out colour! So I have to manually reset it in the NVIDIA Control Panel. I'm guessing this is some sort of mixup between the NVIDIA settings, the Intel Settings, and whatever the hell Windows 7 has as inbuilt settings. But I can't figure out where this is. The other odd thing is I do not actually CHANGE any settings. I simply have to switch between the settings for them to be reset back to the defaults. An example of what happens: 

The new Radeon driver drives me nuts. With the old drivers it was very easy to downgrade the memory and gpu speed to keep the card cool. With the new driver I can not find the position where the options is. The result is, that the card gets up to 80°C and the fan gets extremely annoying. How to to downgrade the card with the new drivers? 

But when I try to use it I never get the character I want to. I tried it also with several browsers at the browser test page but nothing works. When I enter Alt+++2222 I get a black smiley instead of the spherical angle. How can I use a Unicode character in a file name by renaming it with the Windows explorer? 

You can not configure it, because Alt is not a key code modifier in standard X servers. In X11 keys can be defined and changed with . The program can be used to identify the key code. Start and press . On a German PC keyboard it looks this way: 

Only and are valid modifiers for X11 key codes. If you want your key to be a valid modifier you have to patch your X server. Theoretically it is possible, because there are 8 modifiers possible. But your X server must know that. 

I try to use Unicode characters in file names. It is possible to use them, if I copy the character into the clip board and paste it into the file name. But I did not manage to enter them directly via the keyboard. I enabled the hex numpad registry key: 

If this is a wireless connection you are using you could use something like NetSurveyor. This analyses all traffic, and gives you percentage read outs of the throughput of the Wireless LAN. 

No point hard addressing machines in this day and age, although it does often sort out some problems. I agree, just create a logon script for users and apply it in the Properties of the object in AD. This will map the drives automatically. 

Just a thought, you could try checking the duplex settings of the network card and on the virtual network card that is being bridged to the VM. Do you require help on how to do that? 

You should consider creating an Exchange mailbox with enough space to hold your mail. Then import the PST into the mailbox, this means services like OWA will work. If you are a laptop user as long as you use 'Exchanged Cache Mode' your mail box is cached to the local disk therefore your mail is available if you are not connected to the network/internet. You configure the default location for where mail is stored inside your Outlook profile, point it to the hosted Exchange mailbox. 

If you are sharing a printer from a x86 machine to x64 machines you have to package the correct x64 driver for the printer on the machine hosting the printer. Go to Printers Right Click the Printer in Question Printer Properties Sharing Tab Additional Drivers Then browse for the x64 versions of the drivers. Hope this helps. 

What is wrong with my Windows Explorer? What do I need to do to get in the year 2015 in Windows the functionality of a damn old grep from 1973? 

Here is a description: $URL$ Emacs asks you, if the code should be executed. Executing foreign code is a security problem. You can customize the behavior: M-xReturnReturn See the documentation here: $URL$ 

In the same way as Alt-Gr-m inserts a µ or Alt-Gr-e inserts a € I would like Alt-Gr-l to insert a λ. How can this be configured in Windows 7? 

All other steps should also be done with a rescue CD. After the backup check the geometry of your hard disk with . The output will give you the start and end of each partition. This is an example of my disk: 

The easiest thing would be to create a new partition at the end of the disk and copy the contents of the old partition to the new partition. This is not possible, because your disk is really unfavorably partitioned. A PC partition table can hold only 4 primary partitions. Because of this the fourth primary partition must be at the end of the disk. It was a quite silly idea to put sda4 not at the end of the disk, because it is not possible to add another partition behind sda4. So the only way is to calculate the beginning and ending of sda4 by hand, delete it, create it new at the end of the disk and move the content into the newly created. But this is a quite risky operation and you should create a full disk image of your hard disk first. In order to create the disk image boot a rescue CD like Knoppix and do something like this 

This is getting very annoying. In the future we will not buy razor products but with the current line of devices, is there a way to prevent this from happening? I have asked on the Razor forums but they have gone as far as to delete my followup posts on this issue, so thought to ask here. 

Original post below I have a Thinkpad T520 with NVS4200m and Intel HD graphics, part of the new(ish) sandy-bridge optimus line. I am having some real pain getting it to output WQXGA (2560x1600) to 30" monitors. My experience have been thus: 

My work place has a bunch of Razer mice. Every now and again when I plug in my a razor mouse to my Windows 10 machine I get a malware screen from Razer prompting me to install Razer Synapse software. Despite having a prompt to 'Never Install', it continues to prompt me to install it occasionally. $URL$ The things that can bring up the prompt again include: 

I plug in an external monitor. I notice my colours are all washed out/high gamma Open the NVIDIA Control Panel In the "Choose how color is set", I change the radio button to 'Use NVIDIA settings'. Then I change it back to 'Other applications control color settings". Note that at no time do I actually CHANGE any settings. At this point the gamma is fixed. I can additionally hit 'restore defaults' or 'apply' to no effect (in the future). 

I tried to import photos and videos captured with a Nexus mobile phone. The photos and videos are stored in the DCIM folder. I have many more images on the mobile phone, which I do not want to import, for example MP3 album art images or images from other applications but the camera stored in many different directories out of the DCIM folder. Windows 7 imports all those images. Now I have music covers in my holiday images. How to tell Windows 7 to import only the DCIM folder and no other folder? 

I wrote a simple test program to measure the performance of the syslog function. This are the results of my test system: (Debian 6.0.2 with Linux 2.6.32-5-amd64) 

I was able to setup Squid with SSL support in order to tell Chromium to encrypt the traffic between the browser and the proxy server. This works fine. But this requires direct access to the proxy server. My problem: the proxy server itself can only be accessed through a proxy server. How can I tell Chromium to use a proxy to connect to the proxy without installing additional tools like corkscrew? 

The test program did 200000 system calls writing 50 Bytes of data during each call. Why is Syslog more than ten times slower than file IO? This is the program I used to perform the test: