Open Settings. Click . Click . Turn off . Go to $URL$ Click the button. Go to $URL$ You should see a list of apps you've used recently. Click . Reboot, just to be safe. Try re-enabling . 

Explanation By far the most effective and clean way to permanently disable Windows Defender in Windows 10 is via Group Policy, as described by Aaron Hoffman. Unfortunately, Windows 10 Home lacks the necessary tools. Here's a registry file that contains the changes made by gpedit.msc on a Windows 10 Pro machine. It's been tested on Windows 10 Home as well. Save the file as with Windows-style line endings and double-click it to import it into your registry. 

Issue 5: Windows Setings Sync I've heard that Windows Settings Sync has caused issues with icons for some people. I haven't been able to reproduce this, but you can check whether it's the issue by disabling it temporarily. It's likely that there's either some underlying setting that's the true culprit; it may be resulting in bad icons being uploaded. Reportedly, this primarily affects search results in Cortana and the Start menu. 

I have an hp pavilion dv6000 laptop that gives me this error 0x000000f when starting up. So I tried to reinstall windows using the recovery partition and that makes it to 11% recovery and then freezes and wont go any farther. I have tried memtest and Ive tried booting with only half the memory but it still doesnt work. Any ideas? 

Actually I would say the problem is with the hard drive itself especially since you say it made a funny noise. In my experience with this issue 95% of the time the hard drive ended up being replaced. Some things you can try to verify this: 

If the computer boots with a boot disk then the hard drive is almost definitly the problem Also if you have to replace the drive and recover data this tool works excellent! 

It will run those things fine. It wont be the fanciest or fastest thing in the world but for someone on a budget it will fulfill your needs. I prefer windows 7 to Vista but for the average user (from your question I would put you in that category) Vista will work 

You can share your windows using xpra, either moving them to the other X11 session or showing them on both at the same time. 

You're probably using the same device name for the second device, you should post the commands that you used. 

You may find some shared network clipboard tools out there, but as far as I am aware, none of them are easy to install or setup (most require compiling from source). I have added clipboard sharing to xpra for various platforms, I believe you could use it to achieve what you want. Xpra is normally used for forwarding windows and sound (as well as clipboard), but there are switches to disable all the stuff you don't need. (ie: "--no-windows", "--no-speaker", ..) Note: if you want to connect to an existing X11 display (rather than a new dedicated xpra session), you will have to use "xpra shadow :0" instead of "xpra start ..." Then from the client, just "xpra attach ssh:SERVER:0" Alternatively, if you are happy to use the command line and scripting, there is always xclip. 

It's time to reboot to make sure that everything works. You may need to update your BIOS boot order settings to match the changes. In my case, the BIOS settings were already correct, so I was stuck in a reboot loop; each time I wanted to boot my computer, I had to manually select the old drive with the misplaced EFI partition. If everything worked as expected, you'll be able to delete the old EFI partition. If it didn't work, or your BIOS is still configured to boot from the old partition, Windows won't let you delete it, even if you use the override flag in diskpart.exe. Since you probably want to get rid of that old partition anyway, deleting it is a great way to make sure you're booting from the new partition. 

Run Disk Cleanup. (You can search for it in the Start menu.) Check . Uncheck everything else. If this works, you can stop. Click . Open the command prompt. Attempt an automated icon cache clear: (prior to Windows 10: ). If this works, you can stop. Kill : Delete a cache: Delete more caches: If thumbnails were also problematic, delete those caches, too:: Start File Explorer back up: 

No the playlist is simply a text file that contains links to your media files and deleting that text file will not delete your music! 

You should be able to go to the applications tab, right-click on the application, and click Go To Process. I tested on my machine, In windows 7 this process was explorer.exe. I killed that process and it closes it out nicely 

Im pretty sure the disk you are talking about is for recovery purposes. If you want to insure your computer against a hard drive crash i would say get the disk. I know that as a pc tech it makes it alot easier on us to get your new hard drive running if you have your own disks 

Try uninstalling and reinstalling display drivers Firstly, remove old drivers by navigating to device manager, and double-click display adapters, select the driver tab, and select uninstall for your display driver. Then go download and install the newest display drivers from HP's website 

Updated DNS block list; works as of version . Add this to your hosts file (typically something like ). Works best with IPv6, since is a "drop-all" prefix. Works with IPv4 as long as you don't have anything listening on . You can use , but I would advise against that, since the connection won't die immediately if you have another program listening on port 443. ( is loopback, not just .) 

This may seem like an obscure fix, but the issue stems from the fact that AppX package logos are typically stored as PNG files. When this issue arises, you may also notice that PNG files are lacking proper thumbnails (you won't see previews while browsing folders in File Explorer). If the app causing the problem has installed similar handlers for other image file types, you can perform the same steps as above to the affected file extensions to restore the thumbnails. Keep in mind that this may affect the functionality of the app, so you may have to make a trade-off. Issue 2: Thumbnails are disabled in Performance Settings 

Cinammon is a gnome-3 replacement that tries to restore many of gnome2's missing features, including the bottom panel but not the top one. I am not aware of any other gnome3 project that does a better job at restoring the old gnome behaviour. Maybe this is enough for you? 

Xpra is a compositing window manager, I quote: The window manager composites the window buffers into an image representing the screen and writes the result into the display memory.. In the xpra case, the display memory is on the client and until you attach your client it does not exist, and so there is nothing displayed on the vfb. That's just how xpra works. If you want to use xpra and still pipe the vfb to ffmpeg using x11grab, you can start your vfb separately and then use to access the existing vfb via xpra. (xpra shadow mode is much less efficient... because it doesn't use compositing, it uses screenscraping like x11grab does) As of version 0.16, there is a new option called sync-xvfb (in milliseconds) which can be used to also paint the virtual screen, which you can then capture. 

Right-click on the Start Menu icon or press Windows + X. A menu will appear. Click . Under the pane on the right, click the link. Click the link in the pane on the left. The tab should already be selected in the resulting dialog. Click in the group. Ensure is checked. 

Run: Navigate to: Look for a key with at least one subkey. If you see any subkeys, you've probably found the culprit. Delete the subkeys. Restart File Explorer. 

Issue 7: Low disk space Unsurprisingly, if your drive is almost full, File Explorer will have issues saving thumbnails and will be rather unhappy about it. The solution here is to clear some space. Simple enough. Issue 8: Windows is borked, proceed to panic Anytime someone mentions this problem on Microsoft Answers, a Microsoft rep always recommends the same solution. I've never heard of it working for anyone, but it can't hurt to try. (Besides, if you contact Microsoft, they're going to tell you to do it anyway.) It could theoretically fix certain obscure issues. 

I dont think the partition is recoverable unless someone knows something i dont but a great data recovery tool that might be able to help you is GetDataBack Simply download it on another machine and connect your drive to that machine and select that drive to recover from, then you can simply copy it to the other machine. Im afraid that by creating that partition over it you may have overwritten it enough that the files wont be recoverable 

This does sound like virus activity. I would run a full scan of Malwarebytes and see what that finds. Other scans you could run include: 

It wont "touch" your windows 7 install but you wont be able use the computer while you're installing an OS. You cant boot to the drive with windows 7 on and then somehow boot seperately to your windows 8 installation disk 

this is the system key: [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\ Uninstall] this is the user key: [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\ Uninstall] for more info read this article