All other steps should also be done with a rescue CD. After the backup check the geometry of your hard disk with . The output will give you the start and end of each partition. This is an example of my disk: 

You can see four different keys the key code 11 can generate. The man page for xmodmap explains which key gets generated by which modifier: 

Only and are valid modifiers for X11 key codes. If you want your key to be a valid modifier you have to patch your X server. Theoretically it is possible, because there are 8 modifiers possible. But your X server must know that. 

What this does is find all files with the listed audio extensions and only print their directory components instead of the full path. This gives you a list of parent folders for all audio files. The skips over non-unique lines which should give you the result you are after i.e. only print folders which contain exactly one audio file. This should in theory also be quite a bit faster than your earlier attempt. You can improve upon this to satisfy your first point by counting the duplicate lines and printing only the folders that match your requested count. A naive solution would be: 

I was apparently using an older version of Mozilla as the browser within HTTrack. I changed the version to 4.0 and it worked fine. 

Schemer is closing down, and I'm trying to preserve the text because there are many good ideas on the site. I'd like to get the text from within each of the links listed on the sitemap. Is there a way I can do this? HTTrack isn't working how I'd like it to. 

I've been looking to develop an iOS app and don't have regular access to a Mac, nor can my computer run OSX. A friend of mine told me I'll need to write my program in XCode (which I'm aware I'll need access to in order to publish the app to the store) but I thought I could use something like Corona/Moai on a Windows computer and then just publish it with a Mac. Who is correct? 

but I would advise against that and learn how to properly use a Unix shell instead of making it mimic . 

It iterates over all subdirectories of the given directory and uses globbing to read all audio filenames of the current subdirectory into the array . If the size of the array matches your desired value it just prints out the filenames separated by a newline. EDIT: This is my earlier approach based on the assumption that you wanted to print the folders, not the filenames in question. I'll leave it here for future reference. 

Here is a description: $URL$ Emacs asks you, if the code should be executed. Executing foreign code is a security problem. You can customize the behavior: M-xReturnReturn See the documentation here: $URL$ 

But when I try to use it I never get the character I want to. I tried it also with several browsers at the browser test page but nothing works. When I enter Alt+++2222 I get a black smiley instead of the spherical angle. How can I use a Unicode character in a file name by renaming it with the Windows explorer? 

The easiest thing would be to create a new partition at the end of the disk and copy the contents of the old partition to the new partition. This is not possible, because your disk is really unfavorably partitioned. A PC partition table can hold only 4 primary partitions. Because of this the fourth primary partition must be at the end of the disk. It was a quite silly idea to put sda4 not at the end of the disk, because it is not possible to add another partition behind sda4. So the only way is to calculate the beginning and ending of sda4 by hand, delete it, create it new at the end of the disk and move the content into the newly created. But this is a quite risky operation and you should create a full disk image of your hard disk first. In order to create the disk image boot a rescue CD like Knoppix and do something like this 

ad 3 This does not work because is a command (OK, a shell builtin usually) and is its parameter and the two need to be separated by whitespace so the shell's parser can pick these up as separate tokens: 

Seems the only way to get working is to run the shell under the user, a "normal" elevated Administrators shell does not suffice. 

into your terminal the shell the variable called and then to execute its which, obviously, doesn't make much sense with regards to . Try running 

POSIX does not specify , so I guess does not implement it. You will want to use to negate an expression, e.g. 

In the same way as Alt-Gr-m inserts a µ or Alt-Gr-e inserts a € I would like Alt-Gr-l to insert a λ. How can this be configured in Windows 7? 

I searched with the search input field and got no results. I particularly told the Windows Explorer to search through the file contents and got no result. 

I wrote a simple test program to measure the performance of the syslog function. This are the results of my test system: (Debian 6.0.2 with Linux 2.6.32-5-amd64) 

In the beginning (long ago before the BSD IPsec implementation has been integrated into the Linux kernel) it was not possible to use a IPsec VPN over a NAT gateway, because it was not possible to NAT IPsec. IPsec has been developed for IPv6, which does not know NAT anymore and using IPsec for IPv4 has always been some kind of hack. Not having NAT for the so called road warriors using IPv4 was a no-go. The only way to get it working in the 90th was to use L2TP, because L2TP works on top of UDP and NAT is possible. Cisco picked up this solution and implemented it in their VPN-Concentrators. This is the time it became a "standard". And in order to be compatible with Cisco many other vendors implemented it. That is the reason why Apple implemented it and why Android supports it, too. But tunneling layer 2 Ethernet frames through the IPsec tunnel has never been a great idea for an IP only communication. In the 90th there were other protocols which needed bridging like IPX but nowadays everybody speaks IP. And in order to get rid of the layer 2 frame overhead RFC 3948 proposed the "UDP Encapsulation of IPsec ESP Packets". This works also by putting the ESP and AH protocols in UDP packets and by this NAT is possible. But it avoids any layer 2 frames. This is the modern solution everybody should try first. Using L2TP is the legacy way, which exists only for backward compatibility. 

This recursively searches for files containing . The second is only run if the first exits successfully, i.e. if matches. Dryrun and remove the if the output seems correct. Or alternatively 

You haven't really asked a specific question but here are some comments that hopefully help you understand what's going on: ad 1 If you just enter 

If the situation has not changed (and things like these don't seem to have, really) then according to this post: 

and you will understand what happens. Note though that in most cases you do not want to store a command in a variable, you will want to read BashFAQ/050 aka I'm trying to put a command in a variable, but the complex cases always fail! to learn a little bit about the edge cases and why this is generally a bad idea unless you know exactly what you are doing. ad 2 Using you are printing the contents of the variable to the screen. Note that can occur and usually you will want to quote your variables to avoid this: 

I have a SanDisk Cruzer that suddenly stopped being recognized today. It's two years old and has been through the washing machine a few times (though not recently) so it's entirely possible the hardware failed. What happens is this: I'll put it in the computer, the LED in the drive will turn on, and Windows will say that it doesn't recognize the USB. I've attempted to use recovery tools like Recova, but since it doesn't show up as an actual drive, they haven't found it. I've gone into Disk Management and it doesn't show up there, so I can't assign a drive letter. I've tried restarting, unplugging, reinstalling the drivers, but nothing has worked. Some of the files are pretty important; is there any inexpensive way to recover the data? I've been backing it up fairly regularly, so the only files I really need are from the last week or so, if that makes it any easier. 

The test program did 200000 system calls writing 50 Bytes of data during each call. Why is Syslog more than ten times slower than file IO? This is the program I used to perform the test: 

I tried to import photos and videos captured with a Nexus mobile phone. The photos and videos are stored in the DCIM folder. I have many more images on the mobile phone, which I do not want to import, for example MP3 album art images or images from other applications but the camera stored in many different directories out of the DCIM folder. Windows 7 imports all those images. Now I have music covers in my holiday images. How to tell Windows 7 to import only the DCIM folder and no other folder?