set the DHCP scope as a subset of the subnet and issue static addresses out of there, or create an exclusion within the DHCP scope for the addresses that you assigned as static 

There is an understatement... @ytti and @Steve have great answers, just also be very aware that the 7600 has interface commands as well. Like the , you will want to make sure that your mutations are correct or you can see drops. Been burned by that one, just make sure you generate enough test traffic to validate that everything is working properly since issues with QoS and hardware queues don't really appear until there is load. 

you can reduce the interval in which the SNMP counters are updated to something like 1 second. This should result in a more accurate value for the throughput when you are polling every 10 seconds. FYI, this is a hidden command. 

The OSI and TCP/IP are different models and everything doesn't always line up perfectly in practice. In going from OSI to TCP/IP, everything above TCP (OSI Layers 5-7) is considered the Application layer (TCP/IP Layer 4). From TCP/IP to OSI there can be a lot of disagreement over what falls into each of layers 5-7. To add to the complication there are protocols which span multiple layers, for example, Ethernet is both layer 1 AND 2 in the OSI model. Here is a nice visual. 

I don't have a spare 3750X to validate this with but I think I got it... John Kennedy gave a great answer if you want to give a hard limit to the amount of traffic that Client A and B can send but your question was how to guarantee a minimum amount of bandwidth and still allow bursting if BW is available. In order to accomplish this we will have a policer on each of the Client A and B ingress interfaces. The set of policers will classify the traffic into 4-classes, Client-A conforming (the first 30Mb, set DSCP to AF31, decimal value 26), Client-A non-conforming (everything above 30Mb, set as DSCP AF32, decimal value 28), Client-B conforming (first 20Mb, DSCP AF21, 18), Client-B non-conforming (over 20Mb, set DSCP AF22, 20). We will then map each of these classes to a queue on egress and allocate the bandwidth in a manner that should allow each client the minimum required bandwidth but still have the ability to use more if it is available. first let's map dscp values (in decimal) to egress queues 

2 Regarding the configuration on your ASA, you should avoid using IP addresses/subnets and TCP/UDP ports directly in your ACL and NAT rules as much as possible. It is ugly and would take you lot of efforts and time to maintain the configuration and troubleshoot when issues happen. Always put them into an object or object-group with meaningful name. If you need to change or update the configuration related to them, you just only need to update that object or object-group. ========== I hope it is helpful and you can get it worked. 

The issue is: you applied a wrong profile () on your . The correct profile is (without 'WLAN' word in betwwen) as defined. In addition, to ensure your policy is working properly, try to access/open the URL of blockmessage.local (on BOCK-URL-SERVER) directly from your untrusted clients. I hope it is helpful. 

Your output looks strange as I do not see Encryption Domains (Local and Remote subnets) at both end. Indeed, your Encryption Domains are also your VPN IP peers (10.140.134.50 and 192.168.1.10), that is incorrect! When see only encaps/decaps packets at one end, it is likely an issue with routing, thus return traffic cannot hit Firewalls/Routers for being encrypted. You can try initiating traffic from Router end and see whether the traffic is encrypted (encaps packets counters). 

DR and BDR election happens in Multiaccess Networks/Segments. And other routers establish full adjacencies with these DR and BDR only. In this situation, LSA is NOT flooded in the network by non-DR routers but DR. When there is a change in a link state, a non-DR router multicasts update packets (LSU) to DR and BDR (at multicast address - 224.0.0.6). DR receives and floods the update packets (LSU) to its adjacent routers (at multicast address - 224.0.0.), thus the LSDB is synchronized. I hope it is helpful and answer your question. 

In this setup/lab, ASA2 is not an actual dynamic peer as you have static IP address configured on outside interface. therefore, you need a static default route on ASA2, and the same on ASA1. In the real world/scenario, when ASA2 is a dynamic peer (dynamic IP address on outside interface), ASA2 will/should have its own default route thanks to the command or . 

create a policy that sets the traffic to af31 for all traffic and if the traffic exceeds 30Mb then set to af32 

In addition to , you should also use so that if someone creates a loop by plugging in things where they should not then the switch port will go into error disabled mode when it sees a BPDU rather than creating a loop and potentially bringing down the network. As well, if your goal is to track down the unmanaged switches you should enable 

Can anyone provide a good pro or con of standardizing on either method or does it just come down to a matter of personal preference which one you should choose to implement? 

The output parameter tells you when the port last saw traffic which is useful for identifying those ports that are only occasionally used. EDIT: Also worth noting (for reasons beyond the scope of this question) is that "Last input" is almost always "never" 

create another policy that sets the traffic to af21 for all traffic and if the traffic exceeds 20Mb then set to af22 

I can confirm that the Steelheads will reduce printer traffic volume. I have seen a consistent 90+% reduction in traffic volume for JetDirect (TCP/9100) and LDP (TCP/515) protocols on my network. These protocols are highly used on my network and I am unaware of any issues that have occurred in about 18 months since we deployed the Steelheads. 

Your 4500 is most likely running NTP v3. This is the default on many recent IOS versions. As shown in your debug 

Since you are polling at the same rate as the counters are updated you are likely out of sync. By configuring 

When I did something similar I did not use eBGP between the routers. I had the BGP speaking router only send the default route down to the Site A and Site B routers via OSPF and then redistribute the OSPF routes into BGP. On the link between the two sites I applied an OSPF cost. This allows Site A to have routes to its networks, Site B networks, and a default route to get out of Site A (the OSPF cost keeps the default route from Site B as a secondary option should you lose the Site A link). Site A will talk directly to site B, not using MPLS unless there is a link failure between the sites. As well, the OSPF costs translate into the BGP MED during redistribution which causes the carrier MPLS network to prefer sending Site A traffic directly to Site A but also use Site B to get to Site A if need be. 

===== I do not see configuration for NAT Exemption (which we often do with VPN tunnel so real source and destination IP addresses would not be translated when they pass through the tunnel) at both ends. Please ensure that you have this part configured as well. ===== Another thing is: In terms of Transform Sets/Combinations, Cisco no longer recommends using ah-md5-hmac, esp-md5-hmac, esp-des or esp-3des (Link here). Instead, you should use ah-sha-hmac, esp-sha-hmac or esp-aes. Suggested transform set combinations follow: 

If you insist on using EEM on Nexus, you can try with the following two applets. I have tested them out and they work as expected. 

At the same time, please turn on your capture on ASA as below (I assume you have a real host with IP address 10.111.22.10, if not please change the following IP to correct one) 

I am afraid that the interface f1/0 (with IP 200.100.30.252/29) on R2 is NOT really up, causing the issue. Please check it again. And please use the next-hop IP addresses for all static default routes The configuration on R1 looks good as I used that to reproduce the following case and I can ping both IPs 200.100.30.251 and 200.100.30.252 from R3. 

Yes, you should have new DHCP range (New_subnet) for your internal network with the IP address IP.A (ASA inside IP address) is new default gateway. You have to make further changes as: 

It is possible for you to buy just another for additional 25 users, thus you will have licenses for 50 users. Below information is from Cisco AnyConnect Ordering Guide (03/2017): 

At your US DC customer end: On the device where VPN tunnel configured, they also have to update their VPN configuration (mirror points #1 - #3 mentioned above) for additional/second subnet 172.20.0.0/16 (EU DC). In US DC network, they do not need the point #4, because they already a route for your network (10.0.0.0/8). However, they would need a route for their EU DC subnet on the device where VPN tunnel configured. And At your EU DC customer end: They would need a route for your network (10.0.0.0/8) with next-hop IP address located at US DC, so that the return traffic could be sent back through VPN tunnel. ===== When everything is properly configured, VPN traffic from your network (10.0.0.0/8) to EU DC subnet (172.20.0.0/16) would hit the device (where VPN tunnel configured) at US DC. This traffic is decrypted, and then is forwarded/routed to US DC backbone network, then forwarded to EU DC via DC-Link. At EU DC, return traffic is sent back to US DC via DC-Link again thanks to newly-configured route I mentioned above. 

I've not done an SSL cert import myself, but looking through the CLI I'd take a stab at the following: 

This would make your DMZ host accessible at https: //10.177.5.40:8443, but your web server on the host itself would continue to run on port 443. 

There are two "slots" for certificates, so you can specify slot 1 or 2 for the import or a self-signed certificate generation. The import function does not seem to have an option to install a PKCS12 certificate, so you may need to import the private key separately with: 

You can do a static PAT (Port Address Translation) to forward specific ports for an IP (including the ASA's interface IP) to different internal devices. You can do this for any port, but each port can only be forwarded to one internal device using a static PAT statement. For example, assuming you have something like: 

Finally, your tunnel-group would be set to use the RSA server (via RADIUS) for the authentication server, and then the default group policy is set to the "NOACCESS" group to force the group to fail closed if the RADIUS Class value isn't returned: 

You would then have one or more group-policies that describe your VPN users and override the "vpn-simultaneous-logins" value with a non-zero value (I usually set it back to the default value of 3), like this: 

Then you will create an object for your DMZ host and use a static "nat" statement with the service keyword to create a port-level static PAT for your object, like so: 

Then, you would have a group-policy that fails closed (I usually call it "NOACCESS") that sets "vpn-simultaneous-logins" to 0 which drops the connection, like so: 

That will generate the SSH key and enable the SSH server. If you question-mark your way along those command structures you will find some options. You can view the public and private RSA SSH keys with: 

My understanding is that when using the SDI protocol for RSA integration, you cannot pass group/class info. However, if you reach the RSA server using RADIUS, then the RSA server can be configured to return a RADIUS Class attribute of the format "OU=group-policy-name;" which is then used to match a group-policy name in the ASA config. I've done it this way with another customer. For example: 

To my knowledge, we should not apply any configuration of on main interface when it is used for sub-interfaces. This would cause abnormal behaviors in the network: 

You should use a dedicated Mgmt interface (on ASA), another physical interface (G0/3, G0/4 or G0/5) or another sub-interface (under G0/1) for Mgmt purposes and leave main interface G0/1 with default configuration: 

Updated answer: Below is my setup. Both IP_Phone and PC (in VLAN 12 on Switch1) can get the IP addresses from DHCP server: 

Auto-summary: a router summaries its locally-originated BGP networks to their classful boundaries. Also, all reditributed subnets (into BGP, if a router has) will be summarized to their classful boundaries into BGP table. Synchronization: If your AS is a transit AS, synchronization prevents a BGP speaker from advertising a route to an EBGP peer until all routers within the speaker’s AS have learned about the route via an IGP. 

Please contact Cisco TAC and local Cisco reseller for further advice. AnyConnect 4 Licenses will display as AnyConnect Premium licenses when you issue a ‘show version’ command. simply means the maximum number of concurrent SSL VPN, Clientless SSL VPN, and IPsec IKEv1-based remote-access VPN peers/sessions that can terminate on your Cisco ASA platform. And you are right, that is your limit. More information you can find on Cisco Support Forum and here Also from Cisco AnyConnect Ordering Guide (03/2017): 

If you want to do this on public internet-facing IP (belong to your assigned public IP block) - 5.6.7.8: 

Therefore, you should be good with configuration for the IP 1.1.1.1 only. If you want to be on the safe side, you can add both IPs until you have a downtime opportunity to perform a real test., 

===== I also noticed that your Interface VLAN 1 and 2 are using the IP address 10.1.1.1 (subnet mask /24) and 20.2.2.2/24 (subnet mask /24), respectively, so that in the 'access-list 100', you should have and , NOT .