Feel free to search Google for "laptop heatsink dust" if you'd like to see more images. The point is that the cooling fan will draw normal room dust and debris up through the fan itself and blow it against the leading edges of the heat sink. As some of that material catches, it works like a screen, catching even more dust and debris until you can get a layer of material not unlike a piece of felt. If you need a more concrete analogy, the heat sink can act like a DRYER LINT TRAP... if you've ever cleaned one of those out. As that material backs up, the air cannot flow through the heat sink properly, and the laptop will get hotter and hotter since it cannot shed heat properly. Unfortunately, most laptops have to be taken apart to be able to separate the fan from the heat sink assembly to be able to clean between them. So... if we knew how old the laptop was, and the make and model of the laptop, we could estimate the likely hood that your issue is simply a need to clean the unit. Check your BIOS. If your laptop has an AMD processor, make sure Cool N Quiet is enabled. Make sure you are using a version of Linux that is newer than 2011. Make sure that your laptop's cooling channel is clean and free of dust. 

... well, that's a request for a relatively exact figure, while you weren't very exact with your information. I can't look up the power consumption specifications for each processor, because although I know the family, I don't know the exact model for each processor. At the minimum settings, would it last 8 hours? No. It might last 6 or maybe even 7. It won't last 8 though. 

In the case of a Linux operating system, running with different partitions, and different types of partitions improves performance. This is because the different types of partitions are used for different purposes. In the case of generic partitioning, where all the partitions created use the same file system and are used for storage... where you partition just to make organizing things easier... it's all about personal choice. It is possible to make a hard drive work harder (IE shortening the life slightly or decreasing performance) depending on how you write to and from the partitions on that drive. No, I'm not saying that this is always the case. Is there any real benefit? It can help you organize what you use the drive for better.... depending on how much help you need organizing. Let's say you were going to use the secondary drive for your time machine backups instead of the external drive. Creating a partition on the secondary drive just for Time Machine to use isn't going to improve performance or make Time Machine do it's job better. It just means you will tell Time Machine to save the backups to a "drive" rather than just a directory. Semantics, in this case. Really... it depends on whether or not you feel the need to have that level of organizational compartmentalization. Some do, others don't. So the benefit is to your peace of mind. 

Did you already go out and purchase this wall plate? If you did not already buy it, then do NOT purchase that wall plate. Instead, purchase one like this one, as it has an HDMI socket on each side. No wiring. Of course, this still makes me wonder about why you only have one wall plate. You should be using two wall sockets... the whole purpose of using wall sockets is for a professional installation, and if you are using only one, you kind of defeat that purpose. But... you want wiring and pinout diagams... 

Actually, turning to the Ubuntu help forums can be of assistance. One of the first things you can try, if you can still boot to Linux Mint, is installing Boot Repair. 

It would look something like that. Otherwise, are you certain Windows is not indexing the drive. And when you say "clean version of Windows 7" do you mean the ONLY things you have installed other than the OS are the hardware drivers? Or do you mean that you wiped and reinstalled Windows 7 and the drivers, and all the software you normally use? 

... Now I've uncovered a few posts out there where other people who decided to put their choice of an OS on (lolz need my Windoze Ultimate 1337 YAY!) who, after removing ExpressCache, wished they had never done this... because apparently you will notice that your Ultrabook is not as fast after you are done, when compared to how it was out of the factory. But, you've got your reasons. At any rate, this info should get you to where you want to be. 

First, check your Ram. With a separate (trusted) computer, download a copy of the ISO for Memtest86 and burn a CD from it. Boot your computer to that disc, and allow it to run for a few hours. Yes, a few hours. You want it to complete all the tests, more than once. Why? You could have a bad stick of Ram which only produces errors when moving large files through it. I've seen it more than once. In one particular case a few years back, I myself had a machine with 3x1gb Ram in the box, one stick of which was bad. Windows installed fine with the Ram, and there were no operational issues. Only when I attempted to copy some large files did I develop this same exact issue... CRC errors. One Memtest86 later and I was removing the bad stick. Could it also be a bad drive? Sure. Run Chkdsk on it, if you are using Windows. With the drive connected, right click on the drive in Computer/My Computer, choose properties, the Tools tab, and run Error Checking. Make it do everything from that panel. 

You could always use a Magic Packet utility to send the WOL command first, then after a few seconds or so (depending on how long it takes the computer to wake) send the Skype request. This would assume that either the computer is being woken from Hibernation where Skype was left running, or where Skype was set to run and log in on boot. However, it's not just a Skype feature you are talking about here. There is far more to the concept of waking a computer using WOL. I hinted at that above, but essentially, in order to WOL, you need to communicate directly to the BIOS of the computer, not an installed program. Why? Because if the computer is "asleep", you don't have access to the installed operating system or program. You only have access to the OS and programs once the computer has booted up. 

I recreated your situation (as best I could) on this computer after I watched your video. I downloaded the same version of ffmpeg (don't know about build, since I am limited to using the 32 bit version), copied the executable from the bin folder into the main one, put an mp4 file called "video.mp4" in there, and used your exact command line parameters, minus the absolute path... 

Fn+F7 should be your Function key combination to switch between laptop screen and external monitor. You should be able to use that at boot to be able to see the BIOS and (immediately afterwards) the Windows Safe Mode menu on the External Monitor. What I would do is hit F8 after the BIOS splash screen, call up the safe mode menu, boot to VGA mode. Since your video card drivers won't be loaded at the settings you were using before, you won't be forcing the desktop to be extended onto the external monitor. From there, you can reset the dual monitor configuration, and just reboot. 

From where, exactly? I believe this is important to know. I mean, did you use the Chromium OS? One of the Hexxah builds (probably since you state Vanilla)? Did you visit the page hosted on a Google Server that provides you a link to a site off their server, that directs you to something similar to the OS they use on their product?? I mean that's probably the best suggestion right there, since... you know... it is Google's Operating System. 

The easier you want to make it, the more expensive it is going to be. I'm going to quote a pile of stuff here. 

It is possible.. The WNR2000 out of the box is not capable of doing what you want in the way that you want to do it. It cannot receive one wireless connection and then pass that connection on via wireless or Ethernet. The firmware as stands does not allow for the wireless component of the router to be set to receive a connection (like a wireless NIC in a computer can). As I touched on, a wireless repeater requires two things to be able to function in this capacity. It needs two discrete wireless components, and it requires software/firmware that allows you to set one of the wireless components to connect to a network source, while the second wireless component would then rebroadcast it. Standard routers are neither designed to function in this capacity, nor are they designed to be modified to operate in this capacity. Now, the WNR2000 v2 can be set to be a wireless repeater, if you replace the firmware with something like DD-WRT. This thread here at the DD-WRT forums describes the method (in general by pointing to the DD-WRT instructions for accessing Repeater Bridge Mode in their firmware) and some of the issues they have come across. I am not detailing all of the steps you would follow, because at this point you would be far better off moving to the DD-WRT site to bone up on everything you need to know to be able to replace your firmware, and the dangers involved therein. In short, it can be done, but you've got some work ahead of you. Providing, of course, the exact model and version of that Netgear Router is compatible with the proper version of DD-WRT for what you want to do. 

WHEW! ( just downloaded the first two drivers in the list I gave you a link to CX11252-16Z.zip and cx_11252-16z_WinXP.rar because I wanted to make sure that you could still get them for free AND I wanted to detail the process) Yes. That is quite annoying. I've been using DriversGuide since... I think 1997? I remember using it to download some drivers when I was in New Orleans. Driversguide.com never used to have such a convoluted system, BUT in order to continue to provide them for free, they have evolved this very ugly distribution system. Again, if you read carefully what you are presented with, you can walk away with the drivers you want WITHOUT signing up for the site, WITHOUT adding any spyware or browser bars, and WITHOUT paying anything. Do it once or twice, and you might find you end up bookmarking DriversGuide for future use. 

You can test to see if the battery is connected internally by removing the battery while the netbook is on and plugged in. If the netbook tells you that the battery has been removed after you actually remove it... and then acknowledges that you just inserted a battery after you actually put it back in, then your netbook is correctly connecting to the battery. If one or more of the cells within the battery are bad/defective, they can make the battery report a full/100% charge while being charged but then fail when under load. Another common symptom of a failing/defective cell in a laptop battery is what appears to be a normal drain until somewhere between 50%-20%, then immediate drop to almost 0%. It is not uncommon for one cell within a laptop/netbook battery to fail. Depending on the make of netbook or laptop, and whether the battery is an extended life model, there are usually between 3 and 6 cells within a netbook/laptop battery... not that this range is definitive by any means, for there are 8, 9, and 12 cell batteries out there as well for some models. I don't believe I've ever seen one with fewer than 3 though. I can't say for sure, since I don't have your netbook in front of me, but the chances are good that this is just your netbook telling you to purchase a new battery. 

About one house. That's about the range you can expect. I mean, the neighboring houses. Anything more and there would be too much normal interference. Without specifying exact area topography, products used, antenna placement, etc... you really can't depend on a much wider range than that. Now... if you were going to get serious about this... and you used a high gain external outdoor omni-directional antenna connected to a router, and had that antenna on your roof... and all your friends used wireless cards connected to Cantennas, and they had clear line of sight between those antennas and your antenna... then the (partially) tested theory is up to 8 miles. There are many stories out there where people have used Cantennas to connect to receivers up to the where the curve of the Earth would make the connection impossible. Again though... normal equipment... 600 feet. As far as what specific products would add... all depends on the specific equipment. 

You sign in to the Windows 8 Release Preview forum, and you post your specs and your issues, and you see if anyone there can assist you. As has been pointed out, you installed a Beta version of Windows 8. You are expected to be able to troubleshoot your own issues, as well as report them to Microsoft when possible to assist them in being able to resolve these issues for others. Feel free to read the Windows 8 FAQ for more information.