I am using memory at recommended settings of 8-8-8-1333. It has an XMP profile. Th CPU is a bit overclocked to 3.3 GHz, but my cooling more than allows for it. I ran the computer with all overclocks off and lower memory speed but the issue was still there. Any ideas? Where should I start looking? 

I went ahead and tried it yesterday with 120 GB SSD. The answer is: it is possible. It was a bit complicated and I think it can be simplified but here is how it was done. The gist of it is that first you follow the Intel guide and configure everything then you wipe OS from HDD and reinstall it onto left over part of SSD. 

That's it. There are couple things that I am not sure about. First, whether TRIM is enabled for OS SSD partition in such configuration. Second, I think that first system installation was not necessary, and the whole caching could have been configured using BIOS utility. After I configured the caching, the computer started showing RAID config every time it boots and there is Ctrl + I shortcut to re-configure it. Anyways, I believe this is the best possible setup for any workstation. On the second thought, you could put couple more HDDs to make it RAID 5 and then accelerate it using Smart Response. 

I have this problem on my workstation. The computer would effectively freeze for 2-5 seconds for no apparent reason, then continue as normal. While frozen the mouse would still be movable, but only on one of screens in my multi-screen setup. What can be the likely cause. System: 

I want to use a large SSD to install system on it and also use it for Intel Smart Response caching? Start with 120G SSD and 1TB HDD Take a 120G SSD and split it into 100G and 20G partitions. Install system on 100G SSD disk Enable Intel Smart Response for HDD using remaining 20G on SSD. End result: Fast boot times and program loading from SSD and accelerated game loading from HDD! Computing nirvana! :) I am using GA-Z68MA-D2H-B3 for mother board. 

Install both SSD and HDD into system and turn on RAID mode. Install OS on the HDD. Install all necessary drivers, namely the storage drivers Configure Smart Response. I used only 20G for the cache. This will split the SSD into two partitions. What's interesting is that the cache partition will be the second partition, which works out nicely for OS install Boot from installation media again and start setup process Wipe HDD partition and reinstall OS onto large SSD partition. Install drivers and Smart Response utility and verify that HDD is still "accelerated" 

Firstly, I'd like to make a note that only speculation can be done on the basis of the slightly vague question of yours. On the first hunch, such a problem would be attributed to the fact that an internal SD-card reader is just another device; to you, such a device may seem as an integrated part of the system, but only in the sense that it's a part of the casing/tower/notebook. The data link between the motherboard and the actual SD-card reader could be the culprit, but so could the SD-card reader itself be. This meaning that if the data link is slower than the data link between the USB-device, then you're going to get a slower performance. Other factors could depend on features such as write-cache, but such elements would usually be bypassed by benchmarking software. 

You could use CloneZilla. Clone using disk files to an intermediary if you'd like, then clone from those disk files to your new SSD. I've done the same procedure myself when I only had a USB Mini cable. First I cloned the SSD to the external HDD, then replaced the SSD with the new one and cloned the contents back to the new drive. As long as your new drive has a higher capacity than the older SSD, this should be smooth sailing. 

Save it as a as-you-want.ps1, make sure you've set your execution policy to Unrestricted (or sign the above and change it to AllSigned) and run! 

Disabling SkyDrive entirely via registry editor This method should work regardless of Windows version. 

To achieve this you can use GDI++, which is an application that renders the fonts on Windows applications with GDI instead of the typical ClearType. 

Combined with AutoIT, AutoHotkey or a batch script, this PDF-document (Command Line Functions => Using DTCFG-Configuring the Desktop => DTCFG Desktop Configuration Commands) may be of great assistance. From that I tried to create a simple AutoHotkey-script, but I am not sure if it works, nor if it does what you want. 

Move any other folders that are in the parent folder of your folder Fire up PowerShell, and navigate to the parent folder. Run 

What you're doing here should work just fine - I myself have done it in the past and it usually works without hassle! However, if you're experiencing some issues it could be due to... 

I'm looking for a way (hopefully built into OSX) to make two files always stay together. The purpose: give every file used in my classes (mostly PDFs and PPTs) a "summary file" -- which could just be an RTF I edit in TextEdit. The point is for the two files (a text and my summary of it) to always be linked together. 

I have a Time Machine backup folder on an external drive. I'm done using Time Machine forever, and I just want to access those files in Finder without all the restrictions placed on "backup" files. Is there a terminal command I can run to give me all permissions to delete, move, etc? 

OSX 10.6 includes the ability to show a "preview" of PPT files by selecting a file in Finder and hitting Cmd-Y. But in this preview, I cannot select text to copy and paste, and I cannot print or save in a different format. Is there an app for OSX that simply converts PPTs to PDFs? 

In general, my back button works fine, as does everything else in Safari. But there is one webpage (an online quiz for a class) which opened in a popup window, I filled in my responses, hit the submit button, and then it told me my session is expired. In this window, the keyboard shortcut for Back doesn't do anything and right-clicking on the page gives a context menu with Forward but not Back. Is there any way for me to go Back to see my long hard work of entering responses in the form on the previous page? 

I'm looking for a "one-click" way of taking ANY PDF and converting it to plain text. Ideally on OSX or Linux. Ideally, the solution would include OCR functionality, but it need not necessarily. The top priority is having something that can take ANY file WITHOUT configuration. 

Is there a package for getting an accurate reading on the current total battery power usage in Watts on any system? 

I was sent here from Photography Stack Exchange. I'm looking for a portable hard drive enclosure (2.5" notebook) that plugs into an SD card slot and LOOKS like an SD card to the camera. The obvious advantage being unlimited space for video recording. But where it really comes in handy (and crucial) is when you factor in how long it takes to transfer a giant multi-GB video file from the camera's SD card to a hard drive. As far as I can tell, the fastest possible setup maxes at about 20MB/s. (Similar to how Eye-Fi works) 

Manual solution Have you considered setting up the two instances of your web-server software to simply start up at boot? I don't see why you shouldn't be able to make it automatic. How about a login hook?. 

You can install Chocolatey exactly where you would like, and to make that easier, there's even some information written up on the wiki for Chocolatey about that! 

I think you're doing it quite correctly, but it seems like the class isn't available on your computer. Which, isn't surprising, as it isn't available here either: 

You can also only remove it from the navigation pane in Explorer, but I thought you might want to completely disable it. 

Change the keyboard layout. Without the correct one for your actual keyboard, you'll experience oddities. 

If you look under the section System Commands in the -page for , you'll see the various options that are system related. A brief list is as follows for different modes: 

The question that anyone who wants to answer your question has to ask themselves is: are there any features available in Internet Explorer 10 that are only available in Windows 8? Luckily for you, Microsoft has a pretty good list of differences on MSDN. The list mainly states that you'll lose 

See point 1. Needed? That depends entirely on whether or not you want one. Last time I checked, you could also use the touchpad that is on the MacBook Pro. Should you want a mouse, you might want to get one that uses USB, and not PS/2. 

1.a If they are both necessary, are there any benefits? The only "benefit" -- it's not really a benefit, as much as a requirement -- is that with SMB over NBT (NetBIOS over TCP/IP), you'll actually be able to communicate with a greater deal of implementations of SMB. 2. What information/service does and provide? *My quick guess is that while simply provides the NetBIOS API, including NBT (NetBIOS over TCP/IP) via port . On the other hand, provides the direct hosting of SMB via port .* 

It seems that the problem you are facing, is in most cases a "security" feature - at least in the sense that many websites and applications will log you out if your IP-address changes after logging on. Thus, one login with associated cookies will only be usable with the same IP-adddress. The best part to remedy this is to make sure you do not have such a rapidly changing IP-address. A much more common dynamic IP-address would in many default server environments be at least 8 days, but this is surely something that is dependant on your ISP - not your own setup locally, provided you have a router. I personally recommend you contact your ISP if you have a configuration-less-modem, that they configure centrally, so that you can get further information on how often it is meant to change. Anecdote: where I live, it is much more common for ISPs to give you a new IP-address upon every reconnection. In which case, is your connection stable?