Maybe you can add this to , I've added it to a specific share instead. Also, some people will tell you to edit the wrong file. 

Make a folder share on Windows (pretty easy, but make sure the network is safe from intruders). Mount it in Linux with (IIRC, and requires Samba). Using something like PuTTY, log in remotely to that Linux box. Run your command in the mounted folder. 

I'd like to make a certain application portable. The normal version acesses a server. The "portable" (virtualized) version is meant to work with the server unreachable. It should contain a copy of XAMPP and an edited hosts file so when the application tries to reach the server it is redirected by the virtual hosts file to its own virtualized local server. Simple enough in theory, but possible? Thinapp doesn't virtualize the network interface. Am I screwed then? :( 

My use-case is just one thumbnail from a video, just a single file to use as a tag poster. So, what would be a fast way to make this? With , you can do this: 

I'm a new Thunderbird user, I've decided to pick it up after changes in Yahoo Mail (so I'm open to suggestions of other mail clients too). When I reply to an e-mail, I get the quoted text in a style with borders:     If I reply in plain-text mode, I get the reply in the format I want:     (I assume the colors won't be sent and are just "syntax highlighting", right?) but I'd like to keep using HTML for features like inline images. Is there any way I can get that same style of old-school quotes so I can write in bottom-posting format while still using HTML mode? If there is some template somewhere that I'd have to edit, I'd be ok with having to do that. 

Windows (in this case XP) allows me to simply "share a folder" via its SMB protocol, and I can access it via Linux quite nicely (with Samba), no questions asked. That's what bothers me, it just does not feel secure, and the "security" section of the Wikipedia page is discouraging. I love being able to just tell Windows to share a folder and imediately have these personal files on the Linux box (and with R/W access), but I don't want these files to be deletable or even accessible from the internet. I'm not even being asked a password! Can people all over the world access my shared folders without a password too? The topography is: One machine Windows XP SP3, the other Linux Mint Debian edition, and both connected to the internet (and to each other) via a router that my ISP gave me. It has WPA-encrypted Wi-FI, but I connect these two via LAN cable. Am I secure in my usage of Windows' file sharing (maybe by being behind a router)? Do I have to do something? 

Restart Samba (), then make a quick check to see if you can use Windows Explorer to make a file read only for example, and if it persists. Ok, now, you can make the a system/hidden file. To do this, go to the folder where it is with command prompt, and use: 

If you have a Linux box in your home (or work) and plugged to the same network, and this network is safe, this might do the trick: 

Lastly, you need to mark the folder itself as read-only (makes no sense and sounds stupid, so you know it's legit). 

I'm trying to make a minimal XP installation for low-end machines, and I want to remove anything that could slow the system down. I've heard many fonts installed slow down the boot process, so I'd like to keep the number of them to a minimum, and I'm seeing a lot of .fon files everywhere. Is it safe to delete all/some (which?) of the .fon font files? They don't look like they're of much use, but maybe one of them is the terminal font? 

Some things fail to re-paint, others paint where they should not, and it starts getting worse after opening applications until X crashes and restarts. So, I've started X with high log verbosity, but I still can't figure out the problem. Here's the Xorg.0.log, and here's the xorg.conf. Edit: After looking around, I've seen quite a lot of threads with problems on this drivers, and this graphics cards, (and nVidia in general) on Linux, just no fix! I'm still looking for a fix. Please, help me find the problem! It will be very very appreciated :) 

Have you considered the Ubuntu font? It's stupidly legible and has all the characters you need. It also has several weights (Light, Regular, Medium and Bold), plus italic versions of all them, also a Condensed variant and even a Monospace one. Maybe you'd like the light one:                                  

I really want to get rid of the on an NTFS external hard drive to be usually plugged onto the same XP SP3 machine that I have control of. After setting permissions so I can view its contents, it only contains a file called . System Restore is completely disabled for all drives (the service is disabled). So, supposedly, if I can figure out what to do so it doesn't create that file, it won't create the folder, right? Again, it is an external hard drive (not flash drive), and I do not simply want to delete it (I can do that by setting the permissions), but to really get rid of it so it doesn't show up again. 

This is the test texture, and in the right on top of a checkerboard:                        Here is the file in case you want to check it:                                                       Edit: After playing with the settings, it does render with transparency in the rendered output, but that's not what I need. I want to use the models with Three.js, so I want to just quickly see how it looks in Blender, I don't need more than simple "Z-transparency" ("regular" one, non-raytraced) here's a reference rendering of what I expect to see in Blender while I edit (this is the same model rendered with Three.js on an HTML ):                                                 

I'm 100% sure you could, in theory, recompress DVDs in a lossless manner with non-trivial ratio of compression, because MPEG-2 is not really optimal (read: atrocious) and was thought more for speed of decoding than for efficiency, but I can't find anything out there that does it (it would actually be very complicated and I can't see it being neither easy to sell nor terribly fun to code). Actually, read this reply in a forum from one of the lead x264 devs. As for practical solutions, you can re-compress it using a lossy format. This assumes you only care about the movie and not about menus or specials (you'd have to encode each extra clip as an extra file). I actually like this and don't care too much for the menus, so this is good enough for me, and you can fit an entire DVD into the size of a CD with unnoticeable difference in quality. There are many tutorials online about how to do this, and it would be boring to just say the same things, besides they're so easy to find. My tools of choice are MeGUI, Avisynth, x264, Nero's AAC codec and MKVMerge GUI, but anything that you like is good. These tools I mentioned also let you deal with noisy sources, de-interlacing (a whole topic of its own), and various artifacts (dot-crawl, logo removal, blurry images, cartoon or anime restoration, grainy film, etc).