Attempting sudo pg_ctlcluster 9.1 main stop yields: Cluster is not running. As an experiment, I changed the port number in the conf file from 5432 to 5433 to see if it would start. The result is the same error output in that another postmaster may be using port 5433. So perhaps the pi is closing all the ports? I'm unsure what to try next to understand. Clearly, postgres is seeing another 5432 running on startup that can't be found by me yet. Where should I look next? thanx, sam 

But terminal dumps me to the helpful help file. Of course, the rules haven't changed. The help file confirms that if I leave off the password after the -p argument that the TTY will take over but it does not. 

when I started my working sinatra app on my Raspberry pi rev 1 machine running wheezy with the latest apt-get upgrade a few weeks ago I find that my postgresql 9.1 server is no longer running. Hunting in my logs I find this: could not bind IPv4 socket: Cannot assign requested address 2015-08-17 08:32:17 CDT HINT: Is another postmaster already running on port 5432? If not, wait a few seconds and retry. 2015-08-17 08:32:17 CDT LOG: could not bind IPv6 socket: Hunting the Googles I can report this: lsof -i 5432:TCP => null result. Which would indicate that I have no other process running on port 5432? I've run top and can find nothing that looks like postgresql. There is no pid file in /var/run/postgresql This is my postgresql.conf file for this cluster. I've yanked out the commented lines in file locations and connections: 

As @Ramhound said, this is the possible issue with your drive. The other thing could be the mechanical failure, meaning that the actuator arm(s), suffered mechanical issue. In situations when the actuator arm have to read the high (outermost) and low (innermost) sectors after suffering the mechanical failure, it will knock and only read the sectors as far as it can extend due to mechanical issue restriction I have right now the HDD (Toshiba 500GB) where I cannot use one partition, but I'm using the second partition for more than a year now. The S.M.A.R.T. test clearly stated that my HDD have a unrecoverable failure but my second partition still working flawlessly (for now). I am not using that partition for any important data but I'm accessing it daily and writing, reading, and deleting the data daily. I can confirm you that I have had a chance to see HDDs to work this way for years (old Maxtor D740X-6L 20GB from 2001 I think started with clicking in 2004, as I recorded in its service book, and still working believe it or not), but on the other hand it can die in few minutes or hours. So you can use this HDD, but please do not rely on it to store any important data. Use it as is since you might end up with completely unusable HDD 

You can use to retrieve single items, calculating sum requires , or , for your case this formula will work: 

Probably you have Excel's mobile version on your tablet, unfortunately that doesn't support array formulas (and also many other functions). See official information here: $URL$ 

I use Excel 2010 and use Alt+Down arrow to open filter drop down menus. Sometimes my header contains vertically merged cells (e.g. autofilters are in the second row and in some columns cells in rows 1 and 2 are merged) and in this case pressing Alt+Down doesn't open the menu, probably because upper cell is "selected" according to excel, but filter is in the second row. Does a hotkey exist for this? Or is it possible to open the menu using VBA? 

Creating map chart is really a basic capacility now, even Excel can do it If you're interested in more, just Google for "map chart" and your favourite tool's name. Many of the tools has their own embedded maps, if you need more, the most wildly used format is ESRI shapefile. 

The general form of a curl command in CMD that works is: curl -o latest.dump -L "$URL$ But the url is dynamically generated so for me to put this into a .bat script. OK, no problem so here's my .bat script that on paper should work. 

But the output bails because at the first '&' as you might expect. The echo of shows the full string with quotes. How can I append, or force, to encapsulate this string with quotes? I have attempted but it returns the same type of error: 

=> Syntax error: Invalid parameter 'VMs'\'Ubuntu'" Ok, time for brute force. You know when you use tab to complete folder names? I changed directories down to sam and when I attempted to tab the name of "VirtualBox" it spat back the .virtualbox directory name which is not what I need. I attempted to quote the VirtualBox VMs in CMD and it could not find that folder name. That's probably a clue but I'm unsure how to search for a solution to that. What am I overlooking? thanx, sam 

Alternatively, you can use ApexSQL Script, as it will allow you to script not only the object you want, but it can include all the dependant objects in the final script. It is even possible to combine multiple SQL databases and extract SQL objects from multiple SQL databases at once. You can read more about this in the Create DDL and DML SQL scripts for specific SQL database objects only article. Output will be an .sql file which can be edited quickly with any text editor Disclaimer: I'm working for ApexSQL as a Technical Support Engineer 

Having a self extracting executable larger than 4GB is on the extreme side, since there's a 4gb limit on Windows executable files like *.exe, *.dll etc. for PE32 and a 64-bit version PE32+ (applies to 32-bit and 64-bit versions). Second, executable file is loaded completely into RAM before execution and even if you are not limited by Windows (but you are), you could be easily limited by the hardware, which is the physical amount of RAM in such a case 

with regular expressions you don't insert backspace, just replace unnecessarily part to nothing. Update: Working with Windows text files, you need to use instead of 

Update If you want to exclude times with also from X axis range, then just filter them out in pivot table (move "non-zero" column to filters) Or, in this case you don't even need a calculated column, you can plot and filter directly your "values" column. 

I use free regex add-in which adds regular expression functionality in Excel, with that you get functions with regex: 

Best way is to use a pivot table. Put your first column in filters and filter out for "X", put your second column as row labels. 

This is by design. "Bottom margin" set in Word is the minimum value. Everything which would cross that, or would be below is placed automatically to the next page. E.g. if you use different fonts, font sizes, line spacing in your text, that means they take different vertical space, so you likely to end up with different residual space at the bottom of the page. This is the reason of small differences. Also paragraph settings "page break before", "keep with next" and "keep lines together" may push text to the next page even if it would fit before, causing several lines to be empty on the bottom of the page. 

If your information is correct (P4 @2.8GHz) you have some Prescott core CPU (511, 520 or 521), so don't bother with BIOS updating; your CPU doesn't support Visualization technology 

Pentium D is better of those two. It's a dual-core vs. Pentium 4 single core, so regardless of what version of Intel pentium 4 you have (x64 or x86), it's faster. Pentium D Smithfield core (90nm) is actually 2x Pentium 4 Prescott cores, and Pentium D Presler core (65nm) is 2x Pentium 4 Cedar Mill cores Anyway, I would suggest you to check the available memory as well. Minimum for Win 7 x86 is 1 GB, while for Win 7 x64 is 2 GB If you don't have or you are not planning to use more than 3GB of RAM, I would strongly suggest you to go with the Windows x86, regardless of the CPU ability to work or not on x64 OS 

I'm using excel reg-ex add-in and it works well, the only problem with it that it doesn't load when excel is started by VBA. I've a macro in word to collect some data in Word and copy it to excel, this one starts excel, the output is fine, but I need to restart excel to be able to use the add-in (it's enabled in the options, just not loading). I've tried another macro: just open excel and create a new workbook and it has the same issue. I've only this one 3rd party add-in so I can't compare to other ones. Any idea? 

I use regex addin for tasks like this, with regular expression: - this extracts the substring before the last (practically the last folder as you need) 

I often take notes in meeting invitations so when I join the meeting I immediately access my notes too. However when I receive an update for the meeting my notes are deleted and only the update is kept, neither a copy of my version is stored in deleted items folder. My version is deleted immediately as I receive the update, so I don't have time to save it before accepting the update. Is there any way to keep notes in invitations or at least recover them somehow? 

asks for a password expected BUT when I pass it then yields unknown command 'password'. I did do the /usr/local/bin/mysql_secure_installation script but didn't change any values. If my root password has changed why would I still be able to connect via sequel pro and other PHP connections? I'm sure it's something I'm overlooking but appreciate is there's something I've not found in my Google searches, thanx, sam 

The 403 error indicates that the url got munged, but otherwise it passed through or I would have gotten a 400 error. For some reason in the script, the "&" get redirected because they're interpreted in the script. If you were me, how would you run this command dynamically pass this URL so it's not interpreted by CMD, bash, etc? thanx, sam 

Some may ask why not do this in Unix, or CYGWIN? I did that first. The command works perfectly on my OS X personal machine. So it should work in CYGWIN? Well I get the same type of errors. I've attempted incorporating a Perl script using the library and inserted it. But the URL it passes is not recognized by curl. Forcing the output within single quotes munges the URL in that it starts correct but the closing single quote is placed within the last few characters of the URL which renders it useless to curl. The output of in the CMD console is: 

In the example below I've added calculation in a new column to list1, you can add it to both lists and filter for matches. 

Pretty good question, and surprisingly there are not many resources on that. Office help on gives some information, but not many details on the calculation itself. The system behind the calculation is called "Day count convention" and it is used mainly in finance calculating interest rates and payments. It has slightly different variations, some of them are covered by the parameters of . Not having experience with it I can't explain the system for you, however just created a small table showing function's output for beginning and end of each month in a year, it might help you choosing the one best fit your need. 

Below code sample does this process for one paragraph, just need to loop through all the paragraphs in your text boxes (I've tested, it works with text boxes too). 

I'm not sure how you will enter the custom logo, but I can help you to make the HP recovery partition visible 

Download Rufus from here. It will allow you to create the UEFI MS_DOS boot USB stick. Then add the Z5WE3207W.exe ( 2,11 BIOS version) to your USB stick 

Go for the WinSock XP Fix utility as it might solve your issue. When selling computers, I'm usually installing Avast! AV and WinSock XP helped mi numerous times to fix the XP issue when Avast! blocking browser HTTP access, so it may do the job for you as well. I'm not sure what changes this tool made, but it worked almost every time :) 

This is the 3.5mm audio line in connector. Video signal connections: 2 x HDMI (one 1.3 and one HDCP compliant), 1 x D-SUB Audio: Audio input 3.5mm stereo jack Speakers: 2 x 1.5 W(sinus)/2x2W(music)