Yes it is possible via MAC spoofing. If you are seeing the same MAC address on multiple ports then it is possible that someone is in your network doing some not nice things. 

After reviewing your configuration it appears that you applied login local only the VTY lines and not the console port. Since you no longer have access to the device you will need to initate a password recovery for the device following the instructions listed here. This will allow you to log into the device and make changes. You will then need to add the following configurations: line con 0 login local Once that has been added you should be able to login via the console port using a locally created account. Two more small pieces of advice: 

Yes, your ASA can act as a DHCP server, but the thing to remember is that this is not the primary purpose of the ASA and as such it doesn't perform it as well as a dedicated DHCP server. It can perform it well enough for your clients though. I am uncertain about the VOIPs as the documentation deals specifically with Cisco VOIPs. This link is Cisco's guide to configuring DHCP on the 5500 ASA. Personally speaking, I am not overly fond of how you are describing your new network. Typically I like to recommend that all of your devices connect to a switch and then that switch connect to your router (which I imagine is your edge router.) 

IP addresses are like your hair cut. It typically doesn't change often, but when it does you can be completely unrecognizable. The MAC address is like your fingerprint. You may not look the same, but your fingerprint never changes. MAC addresses allow us to do several things. 

If you only have one VLAN traversing the link then you should follow best practices and use switchport mode access. Allowing VLAN 1 and 1002-1005 across the trunk provides a potential security issue as VLAN 1 carries a lot of system data for Cisco. Not to mention that all traffice coming from the other end (assuming the other end is a server or client) will not belong to a VLAN and that can cause further issues. I try to stick to a more restrictive strategy. If I don't need for multiple VLANs to traverse a link, I always set it up as an access port. 

On the 2960X there's a Port-Channel configured in active mode. When setting the interfaces on nexus as: , Bridge Assurance comes in action and blocks the ports. At this moment I'm running it on "normal type" so it won't disable the links. I've read something over the web that I can't use but I don't know if my mind is playing on me or if it's exactly the case. If yes, why I can't do this? Network ports shouldn't be used for inter switch connections? Thanks, Additional Configurations for the exemplify the issue: NX #1 

I'm running two Nexus 3048 switches as network core and I got an issue when linking another switch (specifically a 2960-X) on the vPC links. Consider the scenario: 

A couple of design questions: - Are you mixing iSCSI and other data in this cluster (I assume you will user VPC)? - Are you mixing iSCSI and other data in the same port with tagged frames? 

I even used tried on client machines to see if the DHCP packages are sent and I can confirm they are being sent. On the switches I tried some debugging with and what I see is a lot of "DHCP Discover" requests without any answer. Only the SVI DHCP request of the first switch appears to be working. Here is a snippet: 

We're building a new core for our University and one thing that bugs me is the iSCSI network. We already considered Jumbo Frames and Flow Control on the iSCSI ports, but one thing remains for debate, and it's the QoS Feature. Our new core consist of two Cisco Nexus 3048. There will be two different iSCSI VLAN's for MPIO, one VLAN will be in the first switch and the other one on the the second. The Jumbo Frames and Flow Control seems trivial, but QoS does not appear to be simple. I was unable to find any guidelines for iSCSI on the Nexus 3048 models. There are a lot of information for the 5000 and 7000 series but many features are missing on the 3000 series, like the QoS traffic match with the iSCSI protocol. Another thing that I'm unsure is about CoS (Class of Service) Classification. Is this a requirement requirement? I don't know where iSCSI should be placed. Thanks in advance, V. EDIT with Answers: 

So I have this nice Cisco RV325 that I was able to set up and get working great with everything internally. It just won't go external. The basic setup: - ISP forces me to use a Cisco 860VAE - I have the rv325, which has a lot more ports (I need a lot of ports) - the 860VAE works fine if I connect it to an Airport Time Capsule (let's call it ATC from now on) - they set the 860VAE up for me, wouldn't tell me anything about it, and I know nothing about it at all. I know not of its settings nor whether I can access them. I was given an IP address and a gateway address. I input these into the ATC, take the GE0 port from the 860VAE and connect it to the WAN port of the ATC, and all works well with the ATC in router mode. Now let's say I want to use the rv325 (and I do, because I need all those ports, and I like being able to have a configurable router). I have tried: - put in DHCP mode and connect as a client on the ATC (using WAN1 port on RV325 and normal LAN port on ATC). No connection. (it says in green that the port is connected but nothing happens. I cannot talk to the outside world with that router.) I have done this with another router so I know it can work, but it won't work with THIS router. - put ATC in bridge mode. Put rv325 in router mode and input static IP address and gateway address. No dice. - remove ATC and connect directly to 860VAE exactly the same way I connected the ATC (so GE0 to WAN1). Nothing. - connect directly to modem (ISP swore up and down this wouldn't work but I was out of ideas so I tried it). Nothing. Right now, the router is in default settings with firmware version 1.2.1.14. I had initially had all my network set up on it with VLANs and everything and it all worked great other than the fact that I couldn't get outside. I could access my own servers no problem. I turned the firewall on and off. Nothing ever changed (never got access). Disabled VLAN. Nothing. Tried it in one of the 860VAE's LAN ports. Nothing, but then nothing else works in those, either. Not even a basic computer. I hate guessing, because I hate when the ISP gives me zero info, but I am forced to guess that maybe this 860VAE isn't really being a router. No clue. Maybe it's in bridge mode. I have no idea. What am I doing wrong? I thought for sure that with it in DHCP mode, it would grab an IP address from the ATC and be happy. But nope! Why is my ATC working better than the RV325? Ultimately, I want to set this up so that it goes: modem -> force-fed router -> rv325 -> ATC (for its wifi and built-in hard drive) I can accomplish everything (even get the ATC to bring its drive to the party in bridge mode when hooked up to the rv325) EXCEPT outside access. Help!