This seems to be a recognized bug with CUPS 1.6.x itself. There is a discussion and workaround for Ubuntu here Hopefully this will be applicable to your situation or at least advance improve your chances of finding a solution. 

Your card is not mentioned specifically, but there is a compatibility table here. It seems different cards can work together in a crossfire setup, provided they are within the same hundred family. For instance any 69xx will work with any other 69xx, but not a 68xx card. Be sure to check that your card is crossfire capable before buying a second one. 

You should have little difficulty installing any of these provided that you buy the correct socket type, and you can handle the disassembly yourself. If your laptop is still under warranty you may wish to find an authorized service centre who could install the chip for you professionally, at added expense but leaving your warranty intact. 

Your error message suggests a problem, the file you are trying to open is an mp4, not an avi file. If your bink converter cannot open mp4 files, you can either convert your file to .avi with a different tool and then convert it, or you can find a different bink conversion tool. I am not able to provide a recommendation other than to google "bink mp4 conversion". 

Of course, if you're going to go to the trouble of recompiling alpine you may just want to change the checkpoint code to write after each change, but be warned that whatever you do, it's likely to result in decreased performance if you increase checkpointing frequency. One more thing to note - you can see when checkpoints occur currently by turning on the option . Two asterisks will appear when it is saving to disk. 

I used to have this router and had troubles with it dropping wireless connections frequently. Some things that will improve your situation: Check if there are firmware updates available and install them if so. As jack said, set your wireless channel to one that isn't used much. He didn't mention how to choose what this is though. Best way is to use NetStumbler which will show you what channels are used by other networks, and the signal-to-noise on each channel. It's also likely that you don;t need to reset your router to fix the described state above - does selecting 'Repair Connection' fix things? Finally, it may be worth setting up and Alternate Configuration in TCP/IP properties of your wifi card. This is a fallback IP/gateway/DNS in case DHCP failes, whcich is one of the possible causes of the 'limited connectivity' error 

So it appears to run the command, but I am still in my home directory! I must be missing something really simple here. How can I get this tiny script to actually cd the directory in powershell? 

So, this may seem like a stupid question, but are all of the components on the exposed circuit board on a hard drive necessary? I ask this because of a weird situation I had with a hard drive. I got a used 360GB sata1 3.5inch Seagate drive from a friend. He was scrapping an old tower for parts, and he sold me the hard drive. One day, I had the drive hooked up to a Sata to USB adapter so I could format it. While it was connected, smoke started emanating from the board. Since I didn't have a technician on call, and I was not particularly invested in the well being of the hard drive, I did what seemed like a sensible thing at the time: I took a Flathead screwdriver, and pried off the part that was smoking. It was a little black square. After doing that, the hard drive stopped smoking, and actually continued to work. 4 years later, the drive is still going strong in an HTPC I made for my parents. I was under the impression that a circuit board was like a closed system, and frying/destroying any part of the board would destroy the whole thing. But that is clearly not the case here. How is that possible? Are not all of the components neccesary for the drive to function? Is my drive now operating in some diminished capacity, or is the loss of the smoking part completely inconsequential? 

You could restore to a system restore point if they were confirgured to save and you have a save point that's before the virus infection, but not too old as to be painful. 

This is on the radar of the Panorama team, but has not been implemented, either directly in Panorama or in a third-party add-on. I am experiencing the same problem - I typically have 80+ tabs in ~10 groups, which are nicely (manually) arranged so as to prevent the tabs being stacked. Creating a new group gets really fiddly though, as if I put it over the top of (or even near) an existing group it causes the groups to 'auto arrange', usually very badly, undoing all my careful arrangement. Auto-arrange is something that would be theoretically possible to create as an add-on. This problem, and the idea of an add-on, sees some discussion here: $URL$ 

You can get 'Open With' in the context menu for any file by simply holding the Shift key as you right click. If Shift + right click doesn't work, Shift + F10 may work. To get 'Edit' in the context menu you need to edit the registry. Open up regedit and browse to . Create a new key called , then create a new key under that called . Edit the default value of the command key to be . 

If your FTP station has a static IP address or is on the same local network, you could simply set your firewall rules on the rip station to only allow outgoing and incoming port 21 (assuming you are using a non encrypted FTP connection) to the IP address of the FTP server. This will probably be insufficient if you are trying to connect through the internet to a computer with a dynamic IP address, as used by most broadband connections. If it is on the local network it may help to assign the FTP station an IP address manually rather than by DHCP, to eliminate the chance of it changing when more computers are added to the network. 

A solution from link Right click Desktop, go to Properties>Appearance Click "Advanced", choose "Icon" and change size to something other than it's current size. Press "OK" to confirm changes in all relevant dialogue windows. When the icons have changed, restore the size to its original value. This should force a redraw of all icons, clearing the old images. 

This page recommends adding blank accellator shortcuts to ~/.config/Terminal/terminalrc'. I run XFCE 4.8 and could not find this file myself. However, in my terminal preferences (under Edit), there is a shortcut tab. Help = F1 is the last shortcut in the list. My terminal emulator version is 0.4.8. Hopefully one of these will be applicable to you. 

The best way to do this is with Microsoft Keyboard Layout Creator. This allows you to create custom keyboard layouts, which are then installed and can be set as the system keyboard layout. It'd be pretty easy to create a layout with the Alt and Windows keys switched, and this method has the advantage of residing much lower in the OS than a 3rd party tool or Hotkey program. This means that when you hit Alt, the OS sees it as LWindows (and of course vice versa). This is going to be more reliable than overriding the default behaviour of a system key, which AutoHotKey seems to offer. 

A much simpler and more sensible solution: don't defrag it daily. It's highly unlikely that it needs it. What makes you think that it needs defragging daily is required? Most modern filesystems don't get fragged very quickly or easily, and a defrag will essentially reduce fragmentation to an aboslute minimum, so doing it again two days later is unlikely to do much unless you have some serious hardware issues. If it's eg performance issues that are making you think defrag is needed what makes you so sure they're being caused by FS fragmentation? 

In ~/.gvfs/iPhone Since Ubuntu 10.04 and whatever version of GNOME shipped with it, access to the iPod is via GVFS over AFC using the very impressive libimobiledevice. GVFS puts its virtual file systems in the home folder in a .gvfs folder. 

It seems unlikely. This appears to be the only site currently offering a (partial) view of the inside of the Pixel. The instructions on disassembly have been taken down "temporarily", but until an enthusiast dismantles one this the best chance to find out if the SSD is integrated to the mainboard or is a removable module. There are chips visible in the photograph, which seem likely to be RAM (though I can't find the exact number anywhere online). EDIT: It appears that there is a single flash memory chip just to the left of the USB ports, with a circular white sticker on it. If the SSD is indeed on the motherboard, you would only be able to upgrade with external storage. An MSATA card cannot be used to upgrade because the mini-pcie port that holds the WLAN card is not wired for this. Some discussion, here. 

It is difficult to tell you anything certain in situations like these, but data packages, phones, mobile broadband modems and other similar devices normally come with a 14 day "cooling off" period, during which you can back out, cancel your contract and get a full refund. It may be worth seeing if your supplier had such an arrangement, and if it does, you could buy and try the services you are interested in. Above all, before you pay any money, make certain that if you're not happy, you can return the device/cancel the contract. I had a similar experience with 3G 4 years ago, and since I was not able to get coverage at my house, I was able to return the device and get a full refund. 

When I have my Samsung Galaxy 8 plugged into my computer, and I drag an .m4a file to it, it prompts if I want to just copy the file, or "convert and copy" the file since it thinks my MTP device may not be capable of playing an m4a. So I say yes, expecting an mp3, but I get an even less useful .wma file instead. How can I change the convert and copy to covert to mp3 instead of wma? See this related question which seeks to disable the dialog entirely. Disable prompt to convert videos copied to media device 

I have a 5TB external NTFS drive thats nearly full. It was exhibiting an odd behavior: I would copy a file to it, the total space free would adjust accordingly, but the file was nowhere to be found. So I ran check disk on it (from the Windows 7 UI, not the command line) on it and the check disk seemed to get stuck (The file number that it was working on did not change for over 36 hours), so I cancelled the check. Now, the drive is unreadable. It is recognized in device manager, and in it is shown as an unallocated drive, and it prompts to me allow disk management to initialize it with MBR or GPT. So, at least the drive isn't broken. How can I recover the data? 

Ultimately if none of these work you last option is to remove the drive and try and get it out once it's outside the laptop. 

Color consistency is a headache - it is almost certain that there is no way to get this to appear the same on all machines and all browsers (even assuming calibration!). But we can try our best. Embedding ICC profiles, if they are honoured, gives you control over the color space used to display the image and can guarantee color consistency. Your problem is occurring because without a profile, Safari renders colour in monitor color-gamut rather than sRGB. The only reason it looks fine on the first Mac is bcause the monitor color-gamut just happens to match sRGB. You're using CSS styles with RGB codes to set the background color. The CSS3 standard proposes a color-profile property that would let you include a color profile to control how this background colour is rendered, but unfortunately almost no browsers yet implement this. Using a tagged image containing a color profile as your background (and eg tiling) instead of CSS would enable you to ensure consistency across all browsers that honour ICC profile tags in images. Unfortunately this is not all browsers (eg IE doesn't), hence my synopsis at the start that there's no guarantee you can ever get consistency everywhere. I recommend that you create a tiny image using the desired color, tag it with an sRGB profile, and use this as your background. This should get you consistency almost everyhwhere (since IE/Windows assumes sRGB for everything anyway). 

As far as I know I have the latest version of flash (I updated a couple days ago). For at least the last month I have noticed flash using far too much ram (between 200 and 500 MB). I notice it because my computer will stutter, and then it will resume fine after killing Flash's process. Its typically caused by a popunder ad with a lot of flash on it. Right now, it has spiked out of control. It is using 2 gigs of RAM. I have 7 tabs open and no popunders. It used to be that upgrading flash would fix this type of error, but it hasn't. I have to kill flash it seems like almost every half hour during a normal browsing session. Has anyone else seen a spike in Flash's usage? I have a decent machine (8 gb of ram, Samsung 840 SSD, and Intel 3840QM@2.7Ghz) and this makes firefox unusable and also slows down other programs. Is there a permanent solution to prevent flash from monopolizing my system during an average, modest browsing session? 

When you send an email that gets rejected by the server for some reason, you may get a bounce-back message with useful information about why the email was bounced, such as an RFC status code. Is there a way to get this same information without actually sending an email, like some kind of ping? So that, I could say: If I were to hypothetically send an email to address@domain.com, can I know definitively if it will bounce? And if it will bounce, what would the bounce-back look like? I have a distribution list. If a message bounces back, the intended recipient is flagged. If they get flagged 3 times consecutively, I stop sending them mail. The purpose is so my server does not waste resources constructing and queuing emails to bad addresses, while they sit and gum up my mail queue. I want to make the ban "probationary," where I test the address in the future to see if it still bounces. Maybe their inbox was just full, and now it isn't. Or maybe their server was blacklisting my IP, and I have since been whitelisted. Is there any way to determine this without actually sending them an email? If it bounces again, it could then potentially continue to gum up my mail queue and waste server resources, which I am trying to avoid. I'm using on .