These "signals" are types of wireless service which require a subscription to use, and compatible hardware with appropriate Sim card. You should contact wireless mobile data carriers in your area, often the same companies that provide cellular phone service. What you are asking is very vague, unless you live in one of the most remote areas of the planet, at least one or more of those services is available in your area, whether it is compatible with your hardware is another story as there are various frequency and bands involved as well. 

In some cases, you can install a small switch between the modem and multiple devices, like 2 routers in your case, but because you specifically stated in your question: 

Look at commercial grade USB RS232 adapters such as Edgeport by Digi, they are about 2-4 times as expensive as the cheap USB adapters, but they can give you as close to a pure RS232 experience as possible, even maintaining the same Com port regardless of the USB port they are connected to. These will also give you all signal lines including RI as well. 

Your network setup is completely valid, as long as only one device is responding to DHCP requests then a network can have two (or more) routers with no issues, but to utilize anything but the default gateway you must statically assign it to the nodes or build routing statements, but that doesn't seem to be the issue here, it appears to be more basic than that. If the network is functioning, then suddenly your ARP table changes and the MAC address associated with 192.168.1.2 is changing, this is a tell tale sign of IP Address conflict, meaning more than one device is trying to use 192.168.1.2. Looking at the stated MAC address of which seems to be "stealing" this IP address on a MAC Address lookup site shows that 5CB901 is associated with a Hewlett Packard device. It appears that some HP device is trying to use 192.168.1.2 causing the router at that address to be unusable. Find the HP device that is trying to use 192.168.1.2 and remove it from the network or change it so the device will not use that IP address and you should be back in business. 

The fix is shown here: $URL$ The jist of it is disabling "Fast Startup" in the shutdown options of the Power Options menu. I could not get "Power Options" to appears in the menu or by search, so here is how I did it. I went to Start -> Settings -> System then select Power & Sleep and scroll to the bottom and pick Additional Power settings, this opens the Power Options menu. Now select "Choose what the power buttons do" and then "Change settings that are currently unavailable". Scroll to the bottom and under Shutdown Settings untick "Turn on fast startup (recommended)" then Save Changes and it works now. Three attempts and all shutdowns completed normally since making the change. 

No, as long as you don't format or re- partition them, why would installing Windows have any effect on these drives? The answer is it would not. If you are even a little bit concerned, don't connect the drives until after you have installed Windows and have it booting properly. 

61C is the published maximum from AMD... GT 610 has a published maximum temp of 102C. Your GPU is running within acceptable parameters, although the CPU temp is high but barely within specifications, I would think on occasion it is exceeded. The stock cooler should be more than sufficient, but the thermal paste included is less than "optimal". I would recommend replacing it with a high quality thermal paste (this brought my CPU temp down 10-15C under load). Assuming you are not overclocking at all, the stock cooler should be more than sufficient for the CPU and installation issues are the likely the primary cause of problems. If there is an air gap or misalignment of the cooler, if the thermal paste is not spread correctly, or other it is not seated properly, temperatures can get excessive. Do not attempt to reuse the same thermal paste, meaning do not remove the cooler and stick it back on without cleaning the CPU and cooler with isopropyl alcohol and reapplying new quality thermal paste. Quality third-party coolers are inexpensive, and although are not required would have no negative effect, but the same rules of installation with thermal paste would apply. A water cooler setup is generally only needed for overclocking situations. 

Sure, well sort of... It is unclear if this is a CGA or EGA display though... You can use it if you have a video card that supports CGA or EGA output, which are typically only available as 8-bit ISA (PC/XT) expansion cards, occasionally 16-bit ISA cards. If you have an old computer with the appropriate card, Linux will work although X Windows (graphical interface) probably won't unless you have an extremely old distro (like mid-1990's). An example of a card would be the ATi EGA Wonder, although finding one could be tough as they were generally phased out in favor of VGA (which is still used today) by around 1990 or so. There is no USB or other adapter available that I am aware of to drive these monitors. 

I believe this is what is known as a "Hybrid MBR" Details on this partition scheme are sketchy at best... Some more detail and background can be found here about a third of the way down the page, look for a posting by jsmeix that gives some history and detail about this (the thread itself it likely not relevant, but the information in that post and a few of the subsequent ones could be). 

The answer here is we can't say for certain unfortunately... Intel integrated graphics all use a common driver, so that shouldn't be an issue. Upgrading the BIOS could break things, but it is not likely. Upgrading the CPU will just make Linux faster, the detection of the CPU is in the kernel, and unless you recompiled the kernel and are running it extremely stripped down, it should just detect the new CPU and GPU and work fine. This will probably go fine, upgrade BIOS and verify boot, then install the new CPU... I really don't foresee a major issue and you should not have to reinstall Mint. That being said, you are making a major change... backup your files and make a bootable Linux Mint USB stick before going through with the upgrade just in case. Then if the worst case happens, you have something to fall back on, but I doubt you will need it. It's better to be safe than sorry though. 

I'm not sure I see the problem, or question... The Non PNP monitor entry you got was because the identity and capabilities did not transfer properly from the TV to the computer. HDMI should always be connected with both devices powered off, and then the display powered on first, followed by the device so that proper handshaking occurs (many devices support "hot" connecting, your TV obviously does not properly handle this). The Non PNP resolutions displayed are all that are possible by your video card because it can't determine the displays capabilities but it expects you to know. Going outside of your displays capabilities (only 1366*768 @ xxhz) could actually damage your TV. If you understand this and wish to try anyway, just change the driver for the display in properties to Non Plug and Play or Default monitor. Do not change your graphics card settings. Note that this may not work, or may not "stick" since Windows and your graphics card think they are smarter than you and will probably automatically update the settings when handshaking of identity and capabilities occur. 

The answer to your problem, not your direct question though, is your camera is defective or there is some other issue with it or it's connectivity. You did all the proper troublshooting, just came to the wrong conclusion. My guess is replacing the camera will correct the problem. 

No, the orientation of a modern hard drive is not relevant to it's performance or life span, any number of articles are available online to backup that statement. Although it is recommended (mostly by conventional wisdom, not fact) that they should be formatted when parallel or perpendicular to the ground. There is something else going on that is causing the issue. Since you moved the computer, it is possible that the HDDs were damaged, but it is more likely that a cable or RAID controller is not seated correctly. Further investigation is warranted to find the cause of the issue, but the answer to your question is clear... the orientation of the drives is not the cause of the problem. 

From your question, unless you phrased it incorrectly, it is pretty easy to summize the problem here... 

You don't... You removed the drive that contains the file and didn't save a local copy on another medium, such as an internal hard drive, there is nothing on your computer to access, so you can't open the file again. To open the document again, reinsert the USB drive. You could easily equate this to watching a movie on a disc... You insert the DVD into the player and press play, you watch the movie, then you remove the DVD disc from the player. Can you now press play and watch the movie without the disc in the player? No, you can't, you have to reinsert the disc to watch it again. 

Nothing, you can't go beyond Z:, beyond that you would use NTFS Folder mount. Information is detailed here. 

Because in the Basic (MBR DOS style) partitioning you appear to have, you can only have 4 primary partitions, or 3 Primary and 1 Extended partition which can contain many more logical partitions (15-63 in most OS's, although technically it is limited only by disk space) which it appears you have already, 4 primary partitions. In order for Windows to add more partitions, you need to convert the disk to Windows Dynamic partitioning or wipe the disk and use a GUID/GPT style partition table which allows for 127 partitions. You may want to look into basic partitioning information here and here and more information on Basic vs Dynamic here. And converting shouldn't be a problem... note what it says "you will not be able to start installed operating systems from any volumes on the disk(s) except the current boot volume" so it should work fine. If you plan on installing a different OS such as Linux, it will be bootable through grub or other method used by the distro, Windows is basically just warning you that if you do this, it is going to overwrite the boot code on the disk. 

The HP Procurve 18xx series switches do not have a command line interface, either serial or telnet, so assuming connecting to another port on the switch does not work, the only recourse is to reset the switch or possibly power cycle it (if the changes had not been commited due to an error). Are you on the monitor port, because if you are normal traffic and administration cannot occur on that port once it becomes a monitor port, you must switch to a different port to manage switch and disable the monitor. 

Getting ready to deploy a 3TB to be used as shared backup and file storage for Windows 7/10 and Linux. I know I need to set it to GPT partition table, but what I'd the best cluster/allocation unit size? 4k is default but I know 1k and 2k would support this size volume... Is there any reason not to use a smaller allocation unit size to make more efficient use of disk space with smaller files or is better to stick the default 4k size for some reason? 

Well, possibly, but it would extremely unlikely... like getting struck by lightning while being eaten by shark unlikely. First off, the virus is most likely intended for a Windows machine, putting it on an Android device would likely have no effect even if it would executed. Second, Android sandboxes applications, essentially putting up security walls to limit what they can do without your permission even as a root user, which would mitigate much of what malware could do without you giving it permission to do things like change system settings or send SMS messages. Third, is that by default 3rd party applications are disabled, so it if didn't come from the Play Store, it isn't going to be installed, as long as Unknown Sources is turned off in security settings (never just leave this on, if you need it, turn it on as needed and turn it off right afterwards). Although the chances your phone could be infected are nearly zero, if you have concerns, at minimum factory reset the device, but since you are rooted I would assume you have custom recovery (and hopefully a nandoid backup), you could wipe all partitions and restore a nandroid or reflash the ROM image. 

You can't "undelete" a panel you deleted, but you can re-create it... Press ALT-F2 and enter , then go to Panel and press the button, select the location for the new panel and select the position (top or bottom) and you will get a new blank panel. Once you get the panel, add applets to it and select "Restore to defaults" which should restore the panel to it's original settings and applets. If not, you will need to add the applets manually, in general you will want to add: Menu (the "start" button) Calendar Keyboard Network Manager Notifications (will not appear unless active notifications) Panel Launchers (Quick Launch shortcuts) Power Manager Removable Drives (will not appear if there is no drive connected) Show Desktop Sound (volume) System Tray (will not appear unless there are active items) Window List (the tabs for running apps) Windows Quick List And optionally: Bluetooth User Applet Workspace Switcher Note that adding them manually will not place them in the correct position, so you may need to move them around a bit.