Now this is a pretty basic way of doing it, and it'll be passable for simple games. I wouldn't recommend it for larger scale games however. 

Using the .x format to export a model from Blender, I can load a mesh, armature and animation. I have no problems generating the mesh and viewing models in game. Additionally, I have animations and the armature properly loaded into appropriate data structures. My problem is properly applying the animation to the models. I have the framework for applying the models and the code for selecting animations and stepping through frames. From what I understand, the s inside the supplies the transformations to transform the bind pose to the pose in the animated frame. As small example: 

There are a number of mini-games you can make with this kind of math background as well. For example: 

Time and artistic skills. No way around that. You can however, make it a little easier. You can use a library specifically designed for implementing GUIs. Without knowing what you're using to render your game, I can only assume you haven't done any graphics yet. Nifty GUI is one that comes to mind that is almost library agnostic. It uses OpenGL and Java but it works with more OpenGL libraries than most other GUI libraries, including: jme, jogl2, lwjgl and it's own custom renderer. 

To make all the costs comparable, you only need to use the same heuristic for all actions. For example, all actions have a list of potential outcomes and all outcomes have a certain value to the entity. For example, there's a deep pool with water, and the entity is thirsty. So we look at an action the pool has available to satisfy that need: First the entity priorities associated with these places, you could call these the modifiers. Some of these will change with time and depend on the entity. For example an ant might worry less about staying alive and more about colony concerns. Or if an entity has gone a while without drink, the satisfy thirst priority may override others. Entity priorities: Satisfy thirst: 40 Stay dry: 10 Stay alive: 100 Then what the location represents: Location: Pool Action: Collect water *Potential outcomes: *: Satisfy thirst - (-95) Get wet - 10 Drown - 1 So we could calculate that action cost at: (40*-95) + (10*10) + (100*1) = -3600 Where collecting water from a raging river might look like: Location: Raging river Action: Collect water *Potential outcomes: *: Satisfy thirst - (-95) Get wet - 90 Drown - 60 (40*-95) + (10*90) + (100*60) = 3100 So it's clearly a better choice to collect water from the pool. Maybe if the raging river was the only choice the entity would wait until its satisfy thirst priority went very high before trying the river. You may want to keep things much simpler starting out. Just have a few variables that can apply more globally. Like staying alive, satisfy needs. In your fight or flight example, you'd need to give each entity a combat rating, so they could effectively rank themselves against the other entity for score purposes. 

It's only bad if you find this to be detrimental to the performance of your game. I find it unlikely that setting the velocity directly would be very expensive. If you do find that this is an issue, by profiling the code, you can create a simple function that only updates the box2D object's velocity if your external velocity value has changed. Something like: 

So it looks like technically, to claim your software runs on Windows, you need to have it logo certified. More information about getting your project certified can be found here. You might be able to fudge the legal lines with the follow: 

This is most accurate for a small maximum θ, but will likely be accurate enough for your purposes. Create a function that takes the current time, and outputs the angle for which your pendulum should be rotated, and rotate your sprite by that amount. 

I suggest you familiarize yourself with the scripting reference in general to find a lot of these types of answers on your own. Good luck! 

You'll have to target DX10. Alternatively, this blog post suggests using a texture to map results of AND,OR,XOR to different color channels. 

This one is a little bit the opposite, you mark the points and it draws them, however, you can then use matrices to transform the shape you've drawn. (You may want to use it here, as it's not cut off by bad page margins) 

This is a factor you'll apply to size and position values to scale them to the new screen. So again, in your example, your box would be changed in size: 

That would depend on what you're using for your heuristic. However, even if you're using shortest distance, the search algorithm will still work. It will spread out evenly until it finds somewhere to go down. If you're already doing that and just want to find a way to improve the speed, there's a few options you can use. 

Get the sprites as individual images. You may already have them in that format, or you'll want to export them as such from whatever program you're using. Parse the images to find their max dimension ( or ). Pad the images with whitespace or transparency, using the maximum dimension you found in step 2 as the and . Most paint tools have functionality like this, and some allow automation of tasks like this. Generate a sprite sheet with your new square images. Pick your favorite sprite sheet generator and make sure it doesn't trim out the borders. 

Only rotating the planet is probably going to look strange, since any background objects (moons, other ships) and star field are not going to move as they should. Attempting to only rotate the planet will make things very complicated. For example, say the player approaches a planet, orbits half way around then flies off directly away from the planet. If you only rotated the planet in that situation (instead of player and camera) the player would fly away to the same place they flew in. Or they go to a planet at the south pole, fly to the equator and leave. Now the planet is sideways relative to the rest of the solar system. What about some kind of orbit function. Where the player flies into this "dead zone" you mentioned, then their controls change into "orbit mode". When in orbit mode, the player is at a locked altitude from the planet and their controls act as if they were stuck to a invisible sphere surrounding the planet. 

I think you need to research 3D textures a bit more. 3D textures do not create visible 3D objects, like grass, they are applied to existing geometry. It's possible that 3D textures are used, but it's not likely. I've checked out screen shots of Final Fantasy Tactics. It appears to use 2D textures throughout. 

See your problem? You're setting to a new enemy. Then you're adding it to the list. Then you're changing to make another new enemy, and adding it to the list again. Now you have two of the same object in the list. Try this: 

In this case, we'll trigger the second option, because 4 (x-1) is not solid, and 6 (x+1) is solid. This will convert 5 into a ramp with its top toward the East (top in the X plus direction), as shown with the red line. The same check can be performed for the z axis. Then you'll find that you have a case where a ramp is valid in two directions. You can either choose a direction to make the ramp, or create some kind of dual direction ramp. So what about performance? Running this check on every cube might get crazy when generating terrain. There's a few things you can do: 

I imagine you'll be seeing something completely different than before. At the moment your camera is rather unattached to your scene. You seem to be updating it, but I guess somewhere else you're also updating the position of your player. Unless those two updates were exactly the same, you're not going to have them in-sync. Basically you want to use your camera for what it is, use it to frame the scene. If you want to set it to exactly follow your character, that's fine, but use it's values for drawing your viewport. 

So yes, your interpretation is correct enough to get you what you need from the library. 4) It's really a process of combining that gradient (with turbulence) with some noise. The description in the site you linked does a decent job at it: 

is not going to utilize the physics system (doesn't look for collisions when moving, ignores any current velocity, etc.), nor will it nessesarily be smooth movement (since you can translate as far as you like). This is essentially setting a new location for the entire object, relative to the current position. This would be how you should move objects if you don't want to use physics. Either because the object doesn't have physics, or you want to ignore physics (like teleporting). uses the physics system, and will be mostly smooth (except for extreme velocities). This is more like telling the objects which direction to move, instead of telling them what position be at. Movement here will consider the physics world around it. If you set a velocity towards a solid wall, the physics system will attempt to make that move, and adjust the velocity based on the collision with the wall. In many cases, you're more likely to leave the velocity alone and adjust the object's acceleration instead, likely by applying a force. 

Code dump + find my problem, doesn't make a good question. I suggest finding code that works via a tutorial or other source, and build off of that code or compare it to yours. That being said... Test your texture loading code by drawing a quad with the full texture on it (use the texcoords 0 -> 1). If that displays correctly then check your glTexCoord2f calls. 

Where returns the distance to the nearest edge of the map from that position. And decides if a value between 0 and 1 is solid (whatever your cut off is). It's a very simple function, it might look like this: isSolid(float value) return value < solidCutOffValue Where is whatever value you're using to decide between solid or not. It could be for even split, or for more solid or for less solid. Finally, this little bit . First, we get a factor between 0 and 1 with this: 

For best results, you'll want to create a port of your application. A quick (and probably dirty) way to do that might be using Google native client (allows running natively compiled code in the browser). Otherwise you'll have to take the long road of porting your code from C++ to Javascript Dart or pure HTML5. 

One way to do this is to use a collider (sphere, cube, cylinder, etc.). Then make the collider a trigger collider and add a rigid body. Along with a collider attached to your Zone gameobject, you can attach a script with something like the following: 

Which is kind of silly. Since the flood fill should fill everything anyway. Just use the first part. 

You're right that A* is a little overkill, but not by much. You shouldn't be seeing delays like you are. A* is really just a modified Dijikstra's algorithm. Since you're not using an end position (as your end position is just "as far as you can go"), using A* with it's added heuristic isn't necessary. Simply using Dijikstra or a simple breadth first search will be sufficient. For example, Dikikstra will spread out evenly in all directions: 

You'd have to verify they have Java installed and that it's up-to-date. This is totally just a guess, since I don't use C# or XNA so I'm not sure if is supported in XNA or not. But this is a start for you. 

The nested loops are going to iterate through and give you each pair of and coordinates possible. This gives you the position of every square inside the grid. Now that we're getting every position, we can do something with it. That's what the call is doing. It's creating an object at each grid position. In this case, it's placing a prefab called . It's setting the position of the object with: . As the image shows above, those position spaced in a grid fashion. 

You may want to look at a game called Brouge. It's an open source game and is has an "auto explore" feature. From what I can tell, essentially the algorithm is: 

People opt for HTML 5 because it's new and flashy. As you mention in your question "...using the new HTML5 technology." It's desirable to be producing something that's using the latest technology, and it's desirable for people to play games that are on the cutting edge. HTML5 fulfills those desires. I would use HTML5 or simply "web games" "browser games". 

My answer above is how users can get money into their Google Play account from 3rd party sources. I guess I misunderstood the question. If you're selling a game on Google Play, you have to use Google Play for in-app purchases, as stated in the Google Play content policy: 

I imagine you're looking to do something like this (starting at 3:04)? From a game called StarForge. Essentially, you need to simulate the basic forces of stress: 

Converting a file from one format to another isn't too hard if you have decent documentation on both formats (or you're making up your own target format). Luckily, Tiled has some software that is available for it that allows you to easily read .tmx files. To convert, follow these basic steps: 

So yes, it's entirely possible. Most any large world (Skyrim for example) will use some form of procedural generation for placing items like this. They're not all placed by hand and they're clearly not aligned to a grid. 

The shadow effect in that image is created with rays and is somewhat imperfect. When calculating the light for each face, I check to see if the face of that block has line-of-sight to the center of the block containing the torch. The line-of-sight check is performed with a ray cast. If the block does not have line-of-sight, the amount of light is reduced by a significant amount, but not removed entirely. Most of this is explained in the post I linked along with the answer you quoted.