On my security GPO I have the Startup set to and the Service action set to . This will make sure that if that if the service is running outside of patching times it will stop the service and disable it. On my update GPO I have the Startup set to and the Service action set to . I have then placed my Patching GPO in a higher hierarchy in the Group Policy. When the Update GPO policy is enabled this GPO overwrites the policies applied in the security GPO. If you set it in this way you can do a simple gpupdate /force on any machine and it will alter the control of the service depending on if the GPO is enable and which is higher in the hierarchy. This was exactly what I was looking for. This article was greatly helpful and I hope can help others: How To Use Group Policy To Control Services by Alan Burchill 

Which does indeed create a war file. However, when I deploy this war on tomcat, it doesn't seem to work. Tomcat automatically extracts the war file to a directory but it does not become available through the web server. I guess it has something to do with that my war does not contain directories and . Is there an easy way I can turn a static client side web application into a deployable war file? 

I have been using cloudflare CDN on my website (wordpress) for about 4 months, mostly because I was hoping the CDN would make things faster, and make the load on my cheap server somewhat smaller, especially because of the many static .js and .css and .png files that wordpress contains. However so far my experiences have been less than optimal. I am not actively monitoring, but I have noticed downtime on cloudflare CDN servers, cloudflare Nameservers, and even the cloudflare website itself. However, the cloudflare status page rarely shows downtime, usually everything is green OK. Now I am wondering if I am doing something wrong here, or if more people have this experience? Assuming that Cloudflare knows what they are doing, I assume that downtime is caused by DDOS attacks on sites that use Cloudflare as well. Is it a good idea in the first place to use a public CDN for a small site like mine that is not at high risk of ddos attacks? 

This allowed for a longer amount of time needed for Windows 10 to connect and check for updates, Reset the connections for all machines and allow for more memory for processing of updates which was a suggestion I found on a google search. 

So I am having an issues installing/removing features and rolls from a Windows Server 2012 R2 Server. I consistently come up with this error no matter which service, role, or feature I installed called WinRM Runspace pool invalid. Now I know the two servers can talk to each other through Server Manager and I know they are using WinRM and WSMan but I don't understand how if they can talk to each other how their getting a Runspace pool error. So I guess to better understand the error after all of the fixes I have tried is to try and understand what a "Runspace Pool" is and how to troubleshoot it? I can't find any information from Microsoft on what it is. Can anyone explain and maybe how it affects my error I am getting? 

The is the name of the nginx upstream backend. It is not an actual host that the client can resolve. It seems to me that instead the client should have been redirected to 

I assume his wordpress site runs on some shared hosting service linux box. So now I'm curious, which versions of Debian, Ubuntu, RHEL, Fedora, FreeBSD, etc, include the StartCom root certificate? 

I am trying to wrap up one of our projects in Ubuntu/CentOS packages. The project is a typical web framework which requires to deploy a tomcat war file, create some directories and run a mysql script that creates a new user + database with some tables, etc. Now I am not sure how to package up the mysql script. It should work either way if mysql has not yet been installed on the machine, or when the user already has a working mysql installed. The thing I am uncertain about is how to login in mysql with root so that I can add a new user and table. Should I prompt the user for his mysql-root password during installation? This might add confusion. Or can I just bypass authentication? Assuming the process is executed as sudo either way, I might be able to do a mysqld_safe --skip-grant-tables &, and login with mysql-root without any password. What is common practice when it comes to running a mysql script during the installation of a package? 

EDIT: Now the server is not checking in with the WSUS server. I removed it from the list of computers and waiting for it to check back in and report. It will not report. I am not running a proxy sever and port 8530 is allowed through the firewall. What could be causing this? EDIT: This error seems to come up every time it checks for updates in the log . I also see one saying Still can't find a cause yet. EDIT: Was able to run the Powershell script to install the WSUS feature. Clean removed WSUS, WID, IIS and cleaned registry and files and restarted before running the powershell command. Now I am getting an issue where I can't get WSUS postinstall to complete. It gets to the following and then says failed to complete. 

My application relies heavily on AppArmor for security. I use Ubuntu to host it myself, but I have gotten requests from others that want to host in on a Fedora or RHEL machine. Now I am aware that Redhat prefers people to use SElinux instead of AppArmor. However, I have looked into it, and I think it is going to be very hard to translate my AppArmor profiles to SElinux policies. Furthermore, I don't think it is very linux-like to force software on the user. Ubuntu for example supports both SElinux and AppArmor and leaves it up to the user. I don't see why Redhat wouldn't do the same. Anyway, most of the stuff on google about rhel + apparmor is pretty outdated. How is the support of AppArmor in the latest versions of RHEL / Fedora? Is it possible to get it working without manually building a kernel? Are there any packages available? 

I am running WSUS on a Internet connected Windows 2016 Server using WID. I used that as my upstream server to download my updates and use the WSUSUTIL tool to export the metadata and the content to my air gapped systems for patching. I did a wsusutil export 

I am trying to get 2 servers to talk to each other through server manager both running Windows Server 2012 R2. SERVER1 is able to refresh all the server information without a problem. I can see all the status of SERVER1 & 2 without a problem. SERVER2 says that the RPC server is unavailable and that it cannot find SERVER 1. When I do the following command from SERVER1 I get an error mainly meaning it cannot sea SERVER2. winrm quickconfig shows that it is setup and manageable on SERVER2. It is allowed through the firewall using GPO which is applied to both servers. I have tried these fixes: Fix 1 Fix 2 Fix 3 Fix 4 I have checked the following: 

I would like allow to executed files from a user's home directory. From I understand that this implies the following policy: 

I have an Ubuntu 11.10 with Apache2 that is hosting some sites. I would like to add a site that is hosted in tomcat, so I installed mod_jk and set it up. The tomcat site is hosted under /app over ajp13. When I include the line 

This problem only appears on Fedora, not on Ubuntu or Mac running the same version of curl. I suppose it must be related to nns then: 

I have been using this module for years and it has always been stable. I have recently been installing some backports from PPA repositories, I suspect that one of these packages has broken my system... 

Everything works fine, except Apache2 some how overrides the response header for html files. If I request the content type is , whereas for I get to see the correct page, but the content type is set to making the browser display unrendered html code. It only seems to happen for html files. Why is this happening? 

On my two DCs that are running NPS on the RADIUS Clients I have the 2 switches set and a secret key is set. The switches are communication with the RADIUS server. If it wasn't it would give me an error stating "Can't Reach RADIUS server". When I try to SSH to my switches with my username and password for the domain it says access denied and closes the connection. I can only login with admin account. I can ping both RADIUS servers from the switch. Switch Authentication Configuration: 

This is my first WSUS install so I need a little help. When I run the ClientDiag.exe on the client I get the following. 

Is there anything I should be able to check to access my IIS main homepage? EDIT 1: Computer has one active network port running IP address. 192.168.6.101 as a static DNS of 192.168.6.101. 

Edit: the problem is related to the loading of an apache2 module. I found some traces of the problem in: 

I'm using nginx as a reverse proxy with . The back-end is setting response headers which makes nginx serve responses from cache when possible. However I would like to allow clients to bypass the cache by setting a request header . This way users can get a fresh copy by hitting in browser. By default, nginx seems to ignore the request header. How can I configure nginx to fetch a fresh copy from the back-end and update the cache whenever a client requests a resource with ? 

I am creating installation packages for our software, which has a dependency on . Unfortunately, this package is not present in Debian squeeze, which ships only with the package . The upcoming release of Debian 7 (Wheezy) ships with both Tomcat 6 and 7. Does that mean I can take the source package from Wheezy, rebuild it for Squeeze and put it in our custom repository along with builds of our own software? Or will this be likely to result in conflicts on Squeeze systems somehow? There are instructions on several places how to backport tomcat, however what worries me is that Tomcat 7 is not part of the official Debian 6 backports project. I don't want to mess up the systems of any of our users. For example if they try to install our software on a system that already has installed, which I think conflicts with . In that case it should resolve this gracefully in the same manner as would happen on Wheezy or Ubuntu.