To solve this you need to extend the session's idle time. You can do this by going to: Start > Control Panel > Administrative Tools > Terminal Services Configuration : Right Click Connection > Sessions Tab And then altering the idle timer settings to suit your needs. I changed mine to have an idle of 1 day before disconnecting and logging out. 

I'm fairly new to server administration, so please be gentle with me. On my dedicated server, in IIS6 manager, I've just added a new site called "upload-system", and modified the FTP settings so the home directory is \upload-system\www\uploads\, instead of just \upload-system. This is all okay but have one issue: When I connect to the server using an FTP client, for example CuteFTP, I land in my new home directory, \uploads, just like I wanted, but from there, there's nothing stopping me from going back a directory, using the up-level/back button on the FTP client. I'm actually able to go right back to the c: directory on the server. I created this FTP site so my client can FTP his photos there, I really don't want any of their office staff having access to other parts of the server when connecting via FTP. How do I stop this from happening in IIS6 manager? 

parameter to my /etc/postfix/main.cf file, then added some regex to the bogus_commands file to try and replace any command beginning with 

Some of my users are using Gmail to send mail to our domain (The mail server for which is hosted on a CentOS 5 machine with postfix). Sometimes, but not all the time, when they do, they get a bounceback similar to: 

It appears as though my mail server is interpreting the "h=mime" line as a command. After some research, I followed this thread: 

I believe this is happening because one of my virtual machines were not working. So, after following a forum, I added symlinks to the /usr/lib/virtualbox/components directory. After that didn't fix the problem, I followed another guide that did offer me a solution. But, when I tried to remove the links, I accidentally removed them from /usr/lib/virtualbox/ directory. After trying to re-add them from the components directory, I get an error saying that it already exists. But, I don't know where to add the symlinks in the /usr/lib/virtualbox/ directory. I have run 

I am trying to build an automated background backup program to backup my entire website and its heavy photo folders, using Amazon's cloud storage service, S3. I am using S3Sync from S3Tools and have successfully tested a dummy backup using only the command line window. When I save the working command line to a batch file (.BAT) and have a Windows schedule call it, it does not work. I can only think this has something to do with the local paths set in the command line. If I go on to my server and open the command prompt from my 'Start' button, the command prompt has a default of: 

As the title reads, I'm about to download and install URL Rewrite Go Live extension on my Windows Server 2008 R2 dedicated server, and I need to find out which version of URL Rewrite I should be downloading, x64 or x86. The information that came with the server when I started to rent it said it was 64-bit but when I look at my C: directory I have two Program Files directories, one titled "Program Files" and the other "Program Files (86)" - so this has confused me somewhat. Can anybody suggest how to find this out? 

I'm running a CentOS 6 server with VirtualBox 4.2 Headless. Lately my virtualbox installation hasn't been running correctly. The problem is that, whenever I try to do something I get this error: 

And it has yielded that I am, as I suspected, missing the dependencies that I accidentally removed. But, I'm not quite sure how to install all the missing dependencies (as there are quite a few, I would like to install them all at once.) and restore VirtualBox to its original state. Can anyone offer some advice? I have tried just a yum install of VirtualBox 4.2, but to no avail. Thanks 

But the weird thing is, the mail still goes through... Upon inspection of my maillogs, I see lines similar to: 

I'm running CentOS 6.3 x64 on a Dell PowerEdge R520. I have run the following two commands as per This Wiki 

Can anyone help me find the proper syntax for the regex that I need for this to work? I'm not a regex expert by any means. I'm probably just doing something simple wrong. Any help you can provide is most appreciated. 

What is the sensible way to get around this? Can I change the default directory on the command prompt processor, when it's first loaded? Or is there a way of changing my batch command code to use the local paths correctly? Maybe this isn't the problem at all and it's something else? Any help greatly appreciated. My command line code: 

I have a growing stock photo website. It's currently hosted on a pretty basic dedicated server from WebFusion and I now need to expand, both storage and performance, and to lose their rubbish support team. We have 500k photos online now and reckon we could make the million or two mark quite soon. I'm now stuck on what options there are for expanding, whether to just upgrade the server we have to hold more files, use a third-party storage service, like Amazon, buy our own server or something else. Any suggestions would be amazing, thanks. 

Our .co.uk domain isn't used anymore but we still own it. I managed to delete the rule pretty quickly from the config file, as luckily it's in development stages and nobody would have landed on it anyway, and I also deleted the rule from IIS too. However, my browser still gets redirected to the wrong domain but other browsers don't. So I assume everything is OK apart from my browser has cached the rule somehow and somewhere. Have I done any permanent damage to how my site will run in the future and do I need to do anything else to remove this incorrect rule? 

the page doesn't resolve. When I try to access the webpage from the physical server, I am presented with a page that has 4 boxes and a question mark. Any Help Is Much Appreciated. EDIT: Apparently I suck a QA-ing. The problem was what when I tried to access the OMSA webpage for my server from another machine, the page would be "unable to load". But, if I open a web browser while I'm at the server that I have OMSA installed on, then I am presented with a page containing four boxes and a question mark. Turns out that I just didn't have the appropriate ports open. My apologies to you all for not being clear and thank you all for your help. 

I run into this error every time I try to update (CentOS 6) on four different servers. It only happens with this package. After researching the problem, I haven't been able to find any useful info. People have had very similar problems to this, but not this particular one. Can anyone offer me any advice on how to fix this issue? 

I have a busy celebrity stock photo website and I am trying to hide the photos behind the website root, so they can't be accessed via URL, but my ASP script can read the photo and sends it to he browser in binary. I'm using Windows Server 2008 R2. I would like to know what security settings should be on the folder that contain the photos. My website is sitting at and the photos need to be stored on the D drive here: . I did manage to get this working by simply clicking 'Share' in the properties of and then giving 'Everyone' read/write permissions but I feel I'm doing something wrong. What should I be doing to make this folder safe, but accessible for the server administrator account and my website scripts? What 'Share' properties should I be applying? Should I be sharing? 

I am trying to migrate an old Windows Server 2003 32-bit machine, running MySQL 4.1, to a new Windows Server 2008 R2 64-bit machine, running MySQL 5.1, and have just got to the database part. I have quite a heavy DB sitting on the old server, and before I try to download the tables and then re-upload them to the new site, I want to make sure I don't have to do a conversion first? The old server is not running the latest MySQL or PHP so using PhpMyAdmin is out of the question, and I don't have permsission to change anything like that, I just have a rubbish, basic, buggy WebFusion control panel. Any help gratefully appreciated.