copy and paste-values from the table column that needs to be fixed to a blank column not adjacent to the table. delete all the values from the table column put the preferred formula the first cell in the column. The table should auto-fill the table column with this formula. paste back the values from the temporary column into the table. 

Given the output of the data analysis script is a text file the easiest way to translate this into Excel is by setting up a data connection. Once setup, the data connection can be refreshed to import new data. On the 'Data' tab in the ribbon choose 'From text file' then follow the wizard. (There are lots of options here and there are many parameters. It would take to long to go over them in this answer but there are many resources online such as: How to import a text file into Excel 2010) TWO OPTIONS 1. If you save the output data to DIFFERENT TXT files each times but use a single spreadsheet but you should leave, from the "Properties" window, the 'Prompt for file name on refresh' checked. 

You just need to add a way to tag the agents that are not available and calculate an index for each cell. I added two rows above the agent labels, the first allows agents to be tagged as not available. I added some conditional formatting to cell colour and strike out the name of unavailable agents. The other is a helper row which is a incremental index for available agents of the form I also added a helper column which is just the row index starting at 0. (The helper columns could be directly incorporated into the table formula but it makes it harder to read. The helper row and column can obviously be hidden). The formula in the table just uses a simple formula. The table formula is 

I am trying to edit the meta data in the Word normal.dotm default template but changes to the {Company} field won't save. Changes to {Position} are saved but if I delete my name Word just restores this automatically to the template. Google search on this problem has been fruitless. (FWIW: I have done this in the default Excel template without any problem.) 

My solution uses a simple first-in/first-out formula but it would be possible to adjust the formula using the weekday number to start the allocation at a different cell so table is biased towards the agents in the left hand column. 

2) in the pivot-table & pivot-chart workbook a) Add VBA code to module to automatically open the data workbook, like the following: 

I have a workbook with data connections to a number of TXT files containing data. I had to change the source file on one of them which all worked fine. However when I did a “refresh all” the data from the original TXT file came through. When I refreshed just that file the new data came through. I checked the connection list there was only one and it was pointing to the old file but when I looked in the names there were two overlapping names ranges. I deleted one and that fixed the problem. I’ve never seen this ghost problem before. Is there any reason for concern? 

There are limitations to using Excel as a database for multiple users and your example is one of them. (see also one-excel-file-multiple-editing-users-live-updates) As a kludge/workaround I'd recommend the following: 1) in the 'data' workbook, some VBA code to the worksheet's module to auto save the Workbook when a new "entry" has been recorded. Something like the example will work, but replace "C:C" with the column where you want the save to occur. This is just so it doesn't save when every field is completed, only on one of them. 

Note: The formula must return a number, date, or time value. This is explained in the Excel help (my version is 2010) Since either an IF statement or other boolean functions return true/false, they will not work. 

Make C1:C4 a named range called "List_Fruit" Make D1:D4 a named range called "List_Dogs" (These could also be defined dynamically) Make the data validation list source 

NETWORKDAYS or NETWORKDAYS.INTL will calculate the number of 'work days' given a start date (say in B1), end date (say in B2) and list of holidays (say in B4:B40). The holidays could be public holidays or other days off when the allowance is not paid. The solution is then either: OR (The third term - - in NETWORKDAYS.INTL allows the "weekend" to be set more easily. Excel should give a pop up window explaining the different options. NETWORKDAYS() assumes it is Saturday and Sunday) There's plenty of tips on how to use this online, here's two: excel-networkdays-function, excel networkdays.intl function 

It is worth pointing out that WFP is a kernel-mode API - which means it will be harder to program against, and that if a WFP implementation has a bug and crashes then it has the potential to cause a BUGCHECK (Blue Screen of Death), so it's possible that developers might prefer to use a HTTP proxy instead of a WFP because it's easier and less likely to result in a poor user-experience. This is documented here: $URL$ 

You're running Windows 10 Enterprise. This is relevant because the Spotlight Group Policy settings only work on Enterprise and Education editions, so it's possible you have a policy set that disables it. 

I have a Canon CanoScan LiDE210 (a USB flatbed scanner) WIA is meant to be the new way to acquire images in Windows, as a replacement for TWAIN. Except when I use WIA I get this very limited, cut-down UI that doesn't present many options at all, just some Presets. The (somewhat hidden) custom settings screen only lets me adjust the DPI, output file type, and brightness/contrast. I can't see how I can get better control over the scanner and I have no way of knowing if it's going to perform any kind of processing of the image that I don't want. Canon does offer TWAIN drivers, but on 64-bit operating systems it only offers 64-bit drivers, I cannot install 32-bit drivers - which is frustrating because Photoshop CC only supports TWAIN in 32-bit mode on 64-bit systems... What's a scanner-guy to do? How can I get better control of the scanner via WIA? Here's another frustration: the WIA UI only lets me scan up to 600dpi, even though the scanner has an optical resolution of 4800dpi. 

Observe how, for the top 3 processors, as the core-count increases, the CPU frequency decreases. While the L3 Cache increases - as it's shared between all cores it works out at 2.5MB/core. Most of my computing needs are not many-core optimized, such as games - I don't do things like video-encoding, rendering, or bitcoin-mining - which means whatever is in cache would be suited to however many cores are being utilized, so the larger L3 cache would definitely help (and so be effectively larger than 2.5MB/core). So my question is: if I got the i7-6850K, would the extra 600Mhz (300Mhz in turbo-boost) in single-threaded performance offset the smaller L3 cache compared to the i7-6950X? But contrarywise: would the 500Mhz turbo-boost in the 6950X be in-effect if I was running low-threaded programs and augment the larger L3 cache? To be sure for certain, I'd have to wait for the Broadwell-E benchmarks to come out - though ideally I'd like to get my pre-order in first. 

So Photoshop CC 2015 does still in-fact have the Transparency Grid - it's just disabled in "Artboard Mode" - a mode which can be enabled too easily and without realising it. If you create a new Photoshop document in CC 2015 by File > New > Default Photoshop Size then you'll get a "normal" document, however if you choose anything else in the New Document dialog you'll likely get an "Artboard document". You can get-out of an artboard document mode by opening the Layer menu and choosing Ungroup Artboards - if you're not in Artboard mode you won't see that option because it's renamed to Ungroup Layers. 

I've been needing to sign PDFs lately - fortunately everyone's been fine with me using a self-signed certificate, however I feel it's unprofessional. I'm looking for a personal certificate I can use to sign PDFs and other documents (such as emails). I saw that GlobalSign.com offer "Digital Signatures for Microsoft Office" at a reasonable $90/year for their "PersonalSign 2 Pro" product, or even $30/year for their email-validation only "PersonalSign 1" product. They also offer a separate PDF-signing product which is two-factor and comes with a USB token, this product is considerably more expensive, at $370/year. I don't understand this - a certificate can be marked as trusted for document signing, but as far as I know there is no per-application restriction inherent in certificates that says "you can use this in Office but not Acrobat", indeed when I open Acrobat Pro it lets me use any certificate on my machine to sign a document. I spoke to their Live Chat support, asking if I can use an Office certificate for Acrobat and she replied, saying only the more expensive PDF signing product has a "key-usage" field set to allow PDF signing. I didn't want to debate this further as it looked like she was copy+pasting from their website, but I'm still not satisfied how this seemingly arbitrary restriction is implemented. If suppose if I had more free cash I might drop the $90 for the "PersonalSign 2 Pro" product and try it to see if it works, but I don't want to risk potentially having my refund request denied if Acrobat doesn't work with the certificate. Can anyone testify what certificates can be used for PDF signing? 

When sitting at KLSV in the cockpit with reasonable rendering settings I'm at 30 to 35 FPS. If I look at the sky (where there is much less geometry) I get 80 FPS. 

If it appears that FlightGear isn't using all of the resources it's probably because of an inbalance between the CPU and GPU. Certain operations can become CPU limited, and others GPU limited. From the screenshot the first observation is that the internal process monitoring is active; this will have a significant effect on the framerate. The GUI in FlightGear is built using the PUI - which will affect the framerate when you have dialogs on display; especially dialogs that are updated frequently as the PUI isn't that efficient. There is an understanding that the PUI needs to be replaced, but as yet I don't think anyone is working on it. Use Debug->Cycle on screen statistics to turn on the OpenSceneGraph frame rate counter. You may need to use F10 to hide the menu bar so it is visible as it displays in the top left. This is much more efficient than the PUI based monitor in the screneshot. There are a 3 rendering engines within FlightGear; basic, ALS and Rembrendt. I find that ALS (Atmospheric Light Scattering from the View->Rendering Options) will provide the best balance between a good looking scene and a reasonable framerate. If you have random vegetation slider set to the maximum this will probably result in too much geometry to render. So stick with values of around 3.5 for this and gradually tune this upwards until there is a balance between trees and a good framerate. If you're using the Rembrandt (deferred rendering that is still officially experimental) then you get emissive lighting and the option of shadows, bloom around light points, but this requires multiple passes over the geometry and will be slower than ALS - but the sunlight model is rather simplistic and ALS is generally better IMO. Also you get better clouds by using detailed weather that needs to be turned on every time. Whilst it might seem appealing to simply max out all of the sliders because you've got a high end system- with all respect that's not really why they're there. The sliders are there to allow tuning of the available rendering options to get a balance between framerate and features. Also 3.6RC and the upcoming 3.8 or 2016 release has reduced memory usage which results in better performance. It's a shame that 3.6 didn't get released in August (due to lack of manpower) as it is quite an improvement especially with the ALS cockpit and glass effects. The currently nightly build may be stable; it's worth downloading these and trying them until you get one that is good. If it's no good then the 3.6RC is worth a try. So as often firstly find out what is the bottleneck (CPU/GPU) and tune accordingly. The OSG on screen statistics can be useful to diagnose this together with system monitoring tools to understand the GPU and CPU usage. FlightGear currently takes some advantage of multi-core systems; work is under way to improve this - but that's not really going to fix the case where a single core is maxed out feeding the GPU; or when the GPU is maxed out with geometry as pretty much with OpenGL there is only so much that can be achieved by multithreading. If you look at the picture below you can see that the cyan bars are happening at the same time. This is OSG multithreading. FlightGear (with non deferred rendering) uses two cameras (near and far) - so there is a benefit from OSG multithreading. However you will also notice that my frame rate (i7 2600, R9 290) is only 30 something. 

At places where there is high scenery density the random vegetation will add considerable extra load; but even so a decent CPU/GPU combination should be able to handle 3.5. Try other airports; there's the whole world to visit. ZUBD is quite fun. 

Referring to your screenshot of the detailed statistics; the two parallel culls tells us that OSG is multithreading; but the GPU times are quite long, even with 104million vertices. So it looks like the GPU is holding things up - which seems odd with your cards. Maybe check the NVidia settings and ensure that everyone looks sensible.