Anything except "connection timeout" will reveal, that you can connect to your laptop's stream. If you don't have public IP address, or you can't NAT port, you have to do it the other way around. You can SSH from laptop to server and remote forward your laptop port to server. The correct SSH command would be: 

Eventually found out myself. The Windows permissions are stored in "Extended attributes". The raw data of these attributes can be displayed by from Debian package : 

This will drop ALL communication no matter which process tried to start it. Then you can start playing with and to find, which process does the bad stuff on your precious machine: 

I prefer Mikrotik RouterBoard. RB450G is powerful, easy to maintain and price is very decent. At home I use RB433AH with 3 miniPCI wireless cards. 

Open the site in Firefox with enabled Firebug. It'll show you, on which file it hangs. For each file it shows dns resolve time and download time. Watch output and look for excessive load, memory consumption, etc. Enable harder logging of php (E_WARNING at least) and look into php error log Enable slow log in MySQL and look for slow SQL queries. 

Try for start simple DokuWiki (or any other wiki). If you have 10 servers it'll be sufficient. Also precisely setted Nagios can help with visualisation of network. 

I'm not familiar with MS Exchange, but for me it would be more natural connect to server via IMAP and walk thru inbox directly. Because I don't think that running developed application on the same email server is good idea (which is mandatory for accessing files). And sharing folder with text emails to be accessible from network? Not a good idea either.. Regards, Martin. 

Does someone know if I can find something else in another log? Like maybe the subject of those messages? Thank you! 

We are currently setting up a sharded cluster with MongoDB, config servers have been set up using a configuration file : mongod.conf pointing out alternative paths for data and logs folders : 

I now need to stop mongo to enable internal Authentification and use a .conf file, problem is, whereas I can just do a under the other config/shard servers, mongos behave differently. give me this : 

May be a dumb question, In a sharded database configuration, I launched my mongos with the following command : 

We have a production server running Apache that sometimes crashes because of too much load, I'm trying to replicate the situation on a test server in order to test Monit. So my goal here is to overload Apache to make the service crash, or at least the render a website unavailable. I was trying to do that with apache AB : but it doesn't seem to be enough, despite /server-status/ showing all workers active... Is there a more powerfull alternative or a more efficient way to use ab to bring Apache to his knees? Thanks! 

I don't want to kill the process and risking making a mess, is there a way to gently stop mongos? Thanks! 

Using the docs ($URL$ I've seen that it is possible to launch mongos using a similar file, problem is, I don't know if this file should be different from mongod.conf. So far I have not seen anyone use a mongos.conf file... Should the file be identical? Just changing paths, port and clusterRole? And adding a "configDB:" lign? 

We have a shared network drive running Windows Server at work. One of the folders contains sensitive information that should only be visible to a small group of people. The problem is that if one of those people copy and paste a folder that has read permissions for everyone into the sensitive folder, anyone will be able to access that folder if they go directly to the full path. If there any way to set up the file server to make 100% sure that all files and folders created or copied anywhere in the tree under x:\sensitive will have the same restricted rights as x:\sensitive? 

Is it possible to make a Windows Server (2012) log into a file () all read (and write) operations that users make on the file system, hereunder: 

How do I set up postfix so that only and are allowed to send email to the address ? I've seen some guides that do a similar thing, but not quite for this example. Also, the postfix manual is complex, so I'd appreciate an example snippet that does the job. Thanks! 

Does Windows Server 2012 support OCR-ing of PDF documents, so that Windows users connected to a shared disk on the Windows Server can use the built-in search functionality in Windows Explorer to find PDFs containing certain words? Alternatively, if there are plug-ins or 3rd party solutions that enable this? 

We have a dozen meeting rooms, are looking to get rid of some of them, if we can prove that the remaining meeting rooms will cover our needs. We use an Exchange server. Is there any way I can query Exchange, with SQL or by other means, for how many percent occupied each room is during a period of time? Or does anyone have other good approaches to how to aid this decision? Note: Meeting rooms are registered as users on our Exchange server, and they are added as "Resources" when booking meeting. This may be a non-standard way to do this, but that's how it is at the moment.