this type of object group is calles Network Object Group , so to create a network group that includes the IP addresses of three administrators for example , enter the following commands: 

if your PCs have wireless NIC connection may you create add hock connection in pc1 and make pc2 join it so that pc2 can talk to network through pc1 if you have in pc1 NIC with 2 ports or may you install other NIC if not, may you use one of them to establish communication between two PCs and the other to be connected to network so that pc2 can talk to network through pc1 

other impotent question may you ask your self , what is the deference between L3 switch and Router where both operate in the same layer?? 

Command Prompt will be listed in front of you. Click on it and type the following command line netsh wlan show interfaces 

you need to understand the next Spanning-Tree Port Roles - Root Port (RP) - It is a port on a non-root switch, which is the shortest (the best) path towards the root bridge. (i.e. port 0/4 0/3 in SW3) - Designated Port (DP) - It is a port that is in the forwarding state. (i.e. port 0/1 0/2 SW2) - Non-Designated Port (NDP) - It is a port that is in a blocking state in the STP topology. so your question is about which port in SW3 will be selected as Root Port As soon as the root has been elected, all non-root switches begin to calculate which port is the best (the least cost) towards the root bridge. This port will be called the root port. What if the Root Cost Path is identical? 

50% of network performance drop as i experienced is due to LOOP , check for a physical loop or if you use Cisco switches check spanning-tree . 

for the vlan you need to enable the multicast on it , it must configured to be interface vlan and under this interface configure * ip pim sparse-dense-mode* something like interface Vlan1 ip address 1.1.1.1 255.255.255.0 ip pim sparse-dense-mode end i found a very useful documentation that is talking about your problem exactly in this link Multicast Does Not Work in the Same VLAN in Catalyst Switches 

Layer 2 switch : is the device which can operate in the osi layer 2 and make its own switching decisions based on layer 2 address (MAC address) and may perform basic (QOS ,ACL) Layer 3 switch : is the device which can operate in the osi layer 3 and make its own switching decisions based on layer 2 address (MAC address) and make its own Layer 3 functions (routing,QOS,ACL and so on) based on Layer 3 address (IP address) Managed switch : both Layer 2 and Layer 3 must given IP to be managed so it is not necessary for a switch to be layer 3 to be managed , even layer 2 switches can be managed 

your 10.x.x.x gateway should be able to reach the range of the camera ip, so that your pc could reach it . make sure that your GW could reach the range of the camera 

If you want to shut down multicasts on an interface completely, use storm-control multicast level 0 switchport block multicast The first command prevents inbound multicasts from entering the switchport. The second stops outbound multicasts from getting out. 

you need to bring cat 5 (cat 6 preferred as it is 1G BW) and connect the two switches to each other and then log to each one (using the GUI)and configure the ports involved in this connection as a trunk , change the management IP of the two switches to be in the same range to be able to manage them from any where . NOTE: if you connected the two switches to each other directly without trunk configuration , it will work but under the consideration of you run single vlan which is called spread network but this solution is not standered and not recommended as well 

after a lot of search i can figure out that , you can only make use of proxy arp if PC1 in your example can think that PC 3,4 are directly connected to it to start send ARP request to obtain there MAC address . for example in your topology PC1 which is (10.10.10.1/24) can't think that PC 3,4 are directly connected to it because there ips are (20.20.20.3,4/24) but if you want pc 1 use proxy arp to send packets to pc 3,4 you must make PC1 ip 10.10.x.x/16 and make PC 3,4 something like 10.10.20.X/24 and make router sub interfaces in same IP range of each segment in this case pc1 can think pc3,4 are directly connected to it and start to send proxy ARP . 

other way is capture all the traffic came through your interface and then sort it by traffic size and this way is more proper to un-managed network. . Adding onto the capabilities of Wireshark to find top broadcasters (or multicast packets which can also affect network activity) the following can be done: 

cores configure with VSS, As we can see single link connecting each router to each core which make this link single point of fail, so I need to add link between each router and the other core acting as something like ether channel between two switches to avoid this failure probability from my network , like the next topology 

i just redraw your network in more clear way to define the problem , first of all you have 6 network and i mark each one with different color and your CISCO router know about 4 of them only so you need to define the remaining two in blue and dark red colors.the blue one by define the router interface and the dark red one by static route then perform what ever NATing you want on CISCO router from my side NAT is not the best practice , but ACL with route mab a- CISCO router know about 3 networks by default and by static nating will know about the other 3 b- on the GW of the computer configure extended access list and define the source host and destination host c- on the GW router configure route map that match this access list and set its next hop as CISCO router and that will make you achieve your gool easy and secure way 

it seams like confusing in network layers functionality. first of all you must know that layer 3 add information regards to both source and destination IP not destination only and Layer 2 add information regards to both source and destination mac-address not destination only. Second when you speak about layer get some headers and footers added to be transformed to other layer you actually speaking about encapsulation , but 3 hand check which is occurred in layer 4 is actually layer to layer communication. third regarding your question about layer 4 TCP communication establishment which is as i told you before (layer to layer communication) . this communication contains two parts , one regarding the communication establishment (SYC,SYNACK,ACK) and other is the segment of data which need to be transferred itself and both walk the same way (encapsulating in layer 3 header and footer then layer 2 then layer 1 header and footer) 

the VG register on the call agent by certain registration protocols some of them is open source any one can make use of like H323 and other are proprietary like Cisco MGCP. i don't aim to mention any product by its name it just for example. 

if you are using Cisco routers you can configure HSRP on both of them and make your devices GW the virtual IP of this HSRP if you are using non cisco routers you can configure VRRP on both of your routers and also make your devices GW VRRP virtual IP 

From the Cisco NX-OS 5.1(3)N1(1) release and later releases, each Cisco Nexus 5500 Series device can manage and support up to 24 FEXs without Layer 3. With Layer 3, the number of FEXs supported per Cisco Nexus 5500 Series device is 8. With Enhanced vPC and a dual-homed FEX topology each FEX is managed by both Cisco Nexus 5000 Series devices. As a result, one pair of Cisco Nexus 5500 Series devices can support up to 24 FEXs and 16 FEXs for Layer 2 and Layer 3. There are differences in scalability between the straight-through topology, the dual-homed FEX topology, and the Enhanced vPC topology. In the straight through topology, only one Cisco Nexus 5000 Series device manages each FEX and a pair of Cisco Nexus 5500 Series devices manage up to 48 FEXs 

here you can treat those PLCs as normal PCs . you may get one access point (any brand) and make sure its range of coverage can cover all those PLCs . or may you use more than one access point .regarding the DHCP ,sure you can configure this access point to provide DHCP for those PLCs .all PLC will get iPs from the access point in same range so they can communicate each other. 

also this this link could be useful to understand the TCAM table complete process . and this google book speak about the lookup mechanisms used in TCAM table build 

SolarWinds Response Time Viewer for Wireshark it is the revers engineering of you question . it will list the applications used in you session and all related details 

representing the IPV4 by address MASK , prefix or wildcard mask all are equivalent but its depend on two things 1- if you follow classful or classless IPV4 presentation , for example if you follow classful style to present the IPV4 ,you can't present 121.34.56.X/24 OR 121.34.56.0 mask 255.255.255.0 because it is class A , as you know class A is 255.0.0.0 mask or /8 prefix . 2- the command on the IOS you will configure this IPV4 for it , for example you can't present IPV4 in form of IP/Prefix for certain interface in IOS but you can do so in NXOS , for EIGRP IPV4 configuration should occur in form of address and wildcard mask. 

so that DHCP sever will be able to give IP to hosts in rang of X.X.X.X M.M.M.M and in range of Y.Y.Y.Y M.M.M.M , but i'm not sure which host get which IP also make use of this link about multiple range in same vlan also i'm not understand how you put two ranges in one vlan 

Layer 3 switch has some thing called ASIC which enhance switching performance but Router not by default Router can perform Layer 3 functions more than Layer 3 switch (some dynamic routing like BGP not enable by default on L3 switch may need extra license but not default , route-map , object tracking and so on) but it is also depend on the vendor 

actually there is no relation between them , BGP is a routing protocol which in general will be used to exchange routing information (routing table for example) between multi hopped routers , but VRP is sort of communication establish mechanism (between two peers) SIP and so on . so simply BGP work mainly in layer 3 and VRP work in layer 7 

layer 3 switch and managed switch and layer 2 switch are different terminologies have some common features and some differences 

Because the total number of FEXs that are supported by a pair of Cisco Nexus 5000 Series devices is different between these two topologies, the FEX straight-through design with more than 24 FEXs per one pair of Cisco Nexus 5000 Series devices cannot migrate to Enhanced vPC topology. The configurations are as follows: •Total number of host vPC — With Enhanced vPC, each FEX port can be part of a host vPC. The host vPC does not consume port channel resources on the parent Cisco Nexus 5000 Series device. •Total number of ports per host vPC — The total number of ports that can be assigned to each host vPC differs with each FEX model. please may you check this link Using Enhanced vPC 

macros is something like port profile, you can attach what ever port to this port profile (macro) you already created . this port profile could be auto, meaning that once the switch recognize the connected device (CDP/LLDP) it will assign the configuration automatically to this port, (i.e. once the switch detect cisco ip phone it will assign the port voice vlan X and so on) make use of this example . other type is Static Smart ports Configuration which is used in switch GUI configuration,where you configure the macros then assign the ports the macros manually. please make use of this link