Install the dnsmasq package with your prefered package tool. Edit your /etc/hosts file to include your mailserver and IP address: 

One remark when installing Zimbra: Do not install zimbra-dnscache, because you're running your own version now. 

Zimbra uses postfix for delivering the mail to external addresses. So you can use a lot of the commands on $URL$ For example. Log in as the zimbra user and the command to give you a delivery report on a specific destination would be: 

Remember to be compliant to the license when using de Open Source version. A snippet from $URL$ suggests to place 2 banners in the /opt/zimbra/jetty/webapps/zimbra/logos/ folder and change the configuration with: 

As far as I know there is no way to restore the transactions if those transactions are lost. Redo logfiles are normaly moved to incremental backups, so maybe you can restore them from there. Otherwise, start a full backup and that will give you a 'clean' start for the new redo logfiles. 

This can be achived via out of office within outlook, ensure this is turned on within Exchange System Manager. To setup each individuals Out Of Office you would need to go into Tools > Out of Office > complete the screen. It is worth noting that out of office can be configured via outlook web access https:\serveranme\exchange\USERNAME if you have the correct rights you can logon this way and configure it. hope this helps. 

Provided that you have enough user cal's for the number of users you have, you are in compliance. You can check this by checking licensing under server manager. 

I think I'm ready to add an answer. I think your problem lies with the Caching of the DNS records. I would try one of 2 things. Make sure you remove the HOSTS line you added on the XP machine first. 

Be advised that for this to work you must already have talked to db-server.example.com in the current play or another play higher up in the playbook. Ansible 1.8, (still in development at the time of writing) will remedy this by implementing optional fact caching, which will allow you to save facts between playbook runs. 

Group Variables You can set variables that apply to all hosts by using the playbook layout specified in Ansible's Best Practices document and creating a file where you define them. 

The result of the find command isn't stored. What happened is this: When Linux reads from your hard drive it caches that information in RAM, as long as there's some free. The first time you ran the find command it took ten minutes because the system had to read the data directly from disk, which is much slower than reading from cache. The second time it was able to get a lot of what it needed from RAM, so it returned faster. 

When logging into the Remote Desktop connection, please ensure the username field contains only the username (it may have the computername / domain pre-poppulated). Hope this helps. 

you said you can access internal stuff but not external. it could just simply be a proxy server? Check your internet explorer options underneath connectivity! let me know how you get on! 

The resolution for this would be to install the 64bit drivers on the server! you should be able to do this via the printer properties and sharing tab > look at the bottom for additional drivers. You may be needed to supply the 64bit NTPrint processor if you need this I've got a copy of both the 32bit and 64bit NTPrint directories which I can send you if required! 

You need to contact your hosting provider, and ask the question to them. You would be unaware of wether you have shared or dedicated hosting. What your paying is a very good indication though. 

If you have the Network Edition, mayby you can use the build in backup and restore funcionality to backup the accounts on the local installs and restore them on the datacenter server. That should restore all data and not just the e-mails. Last time I did that we did lose some settings on the sharing part. Mostly because the internal id's changed. As you are merging from several servers, i'm not sure you are able to fix that. You can however create a script which loops through the mailboxes and displays the sharing info wich you can use to recreate the setup on your new server. An quick example: 

On my Windows 2012R2 RDS server for some users the temp folder (based on sessionid) is not created. The end user has problems with printing. If I start a cmd and do the temp folder with the session ID is created and the user is happy. As I am not able to figure the cause of the problem I tried to create a script in 'C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\StartUp' to create the directory but suddenly the %TEMP% variable does not contain the sessionID anymore and my problem is not solved 

Not sure if this helps, I've noticed that when the console is trying to load data is can sometimes 'hang' have you attempted to leave it a short period of time? Which point of creating the user/users does the console stop responding for you? Do you have any relevant information in the application event logs which could point us in the right direction? Has any new software been installed on the server? 

Firstly if the Exchange server is currently still running, yes you can use a tool called Exmerge, this tool with make a copy of all the mailboxes and create a .pst for them. My first question - Why are you restoring from backup? Has the server died?. If you are looking to restore certain mailbox's or recover deleted email, there are several ways to do this. But The first thing is for us to find out why you need to restore from backup. 

Maybe the following commands can help you. It works for the ZWC, but you have to test if it works for relayed smtp mails: Strip X-Mailer header 

You can make a 'backup' by copying all data from /opt/zimbra. Make sure the data is not in use by shutting down Zimbra completely or create a snapshot with the correct system tools. To use the copy on a new/different server, you need to install exactly the same version of Zimbra on that new server and then overwrite /opt/zimbra with the data from your copy. 

Zimbra uses most of the functionality of spamassassin. Only it is wrapped with some management tools from zimbra itself. For Zimbra 8.6+ (maybe older versions also) You can check if your system is configured for updates with: 

The result will be sent to the zimbra user, so you need to have the zimbra@ mail address configured in your system, for example as an alias on your own account. 

[edit] I'm confused though at what you're trying to do though. You shouldn't need to specify the Ansible user or password in the inventory. If you're using Vagrant you definitely don't, and if you're calling Ansible from the command-line you can specify the user with and have it ask for the password with . 

Hostvars and remote variables It's possible to reference variables on remote servers using hostvars. For example, let's say you're running a play on a server in your web-servers group. You can reference variables on your db-server in the playbook like this: 

lineinfile If you want to manage rules in your iptables configuration without overwriting existing rules or centrally managing iptables in a template, use Ansible's lineinfile module: 

You can iterate over two arrays, one with your URLs to download and another with your desired filenames, launching subprocesses that will run in parallel to download the files. 

You will need some plugins or use software that is compatible with industry standards as caldav and carddav. I have sucessfully synchronized with Evolution and Thunderbird Lightning with Zimbra using IMAP for e-mail, caldav for the calendar and cardav and ldap for the address books. For thunderbird you'll need some plugins to make it work. The basic key is to know the URL wich is: $URL$ I've bought the Caldav sync app ( $URL$ )for my android phone and still use that because ActiveSync doesn't support multiple calendars. We did move to the Network Edition bacause of the Outlook connector, ActiveSync and the supurior backup implementation. You can see some examples on how to use ActiveSync on your iPhone on $URL$ 

Open /opt/zimbra/common/conf/main.cf.default file for editing with your favorite editor (e.g. vi). add smtp_bind_address = 192.168.146.197 su - zimbra zmmtactl restart 

If I remember right, 868 error means the server cannot be contact/resolved. are you sure you can telnet to the server on 1723? (providing it's PPTP) My answer is check to make sure you can contact the server that your trying to VPN to with both ping and telnet. 

Is this website hosted within the private school network? Is it hosted externally with a real host? The answer is you need DNS to do that job for you, it depends on where your website is hosted to how you can do it. 

You need to run the cmd prompt as an administrator. By default you will not have the correct rights to do this. 

Otherwise I cannot see how you caused an entire network to fail. If they have the security you say they do this wouldnt not have happend by plugging in a switch. I think you can sleep easily. 

Maybe you can use authenticated SMTP on you webserver. That way the mail will be treated as from a local user instead of a remote mail system. 

If you build your Zimbra server in a private range behind some NAT router it could be handy to install a tool like DNSMASQ on that server. That way your hostname and dns resolver are always in sync on that server and Zimbra should be happy whatever NAT, proxy, VPN or other real connection you have to the internet. 

And at last you can check for the latest updates in /opt/zimbra/data/spamassassin/state/ and subdirs in there If you want to configure spamassassin you can create a file /opt/zimbra/data/spamassassin/localrules/sauser.cf with your own settings. After looking into spamassassin, you also can try to use some RBL's that can be done in the admin interface in the MTA settings.