It would seem like this would be required too. You have to keep in mind that SQL's backup command is not intended to be as full-functioned as a commercial backup software, and it just cares about allowing you to make ANY backup. It is possible that it can't do it exactly the way you want. 

Your router did not give you that 169.254.x.x address, your iPad did. It is because you are not really connecting to your network. You either have a physical hardware problem, driver-not-correct issue, or a network configuration issue. Most likely a network configuration issue. Make sure the SSID and password are typed correctly. Both are case sensitive. Make sure that you have the same type of encryption. Also, check to make sure that if your wireless router has an access list, you add the iPad's MAC address to the list of accepted devices. It is under your wireless setting>Wireless Station Access List. If it has "Turn Access Control On" checked, you must add the MAC address to that list. 

Hard to tell what he did prior to you (but I suspect it was not right, or a trial expired), but what that means to you practically, is that you need to get a key and activate the server to be legal to use it. If you are a group of developers, I recommend that you purchase an MSDN subscription. It cost anywhere from $699 to $11,899 per year depending on the tools and options you choose. If you already have purchased MSDN, ask for your key, change your current key, and then re-activate. With MSDN, you can use them for testing and development, but they are not legal for production servers that you run your business on. I do not agree with William because with MSDN, when activating servers (at least), there is no limit. My thought is that it was probably a pirated install. $URL$ ("Install and use the software on as many machines as you need"...I have installed the same software on many VM's and never run into a limit personally. Different products, for partners and their use in production environments, do have limits.) $URL$ $URL$ 

I would use Creative Elements Power Tools, specifically the "File Type Doctor". $URL$ (to download) $URL$ (for a screenshot) This has the advantage of looking almost exactly like the XP file association area, so you would be familiar with it. 

Before you do this, run the System Update Readiness Tool for Windows Vista. I was unable to install that same update, but this fixed it for me, and I since answered another different question, where it also fixed his problem. It can take anywhere from 15 minutes to over 2 hours to run. $URL$ You should also do at a command line and a . 

I don't know if you can set the cache order for icons considering it could constantly be changing if new programs were added, but you can set the notification to "Always show all icon and notifications on the taskbar". To set this to be the default, go to this registry key: 

Considering the price difference today is generally not so great, I wold go with 7200 every time. I would say that the performance increase is very noticeable, but of course, like anything faster, you get used to it in a hurry, and it then seems normal again. Other than that, if you hear scratching on your current hard drive, I would try to image it ASAP, or at least have a copy of your data moved off the drive. Based on your question, it could go at any time, or not at all, but you should be prepared, data-security wise. 

Frankly, I have never heard of one, and could not find one searching using Google. The reason you are not likely to find anyone changing to use a real gigabyte is that it would put them at a marketing disadvantage. Imagine trying to explain the concept to a non-technical person...a nightmare. Otherwise, your drive just looks like it holds less. $URL$ 

The reason "Lots of JavaScript & such seems to trip it up" is probably that so many companies use content management systems (Joomla, Drupal and Wordpress) , which use those to query databases for content. If that is the case, you will not get the whole page like you want. So it depends on the web page. 

I would use the good old standby: CCleaner. It has a utility that wipes free space. Go into Tools>Drive Wiper. You can have it make 1, 3, 7 or 35 passes. It defaults to this, but make sure you select "Free space only". $URL$ 

Your question leads me to believe that you might be connecting directly to the Internet. You will always get unknown in that case. If so, to really make sure this does not happen to you all the time, you should have a local router/firewall with a switch with a few ports. You would then have a local LAN, something like 192.168.1.X. If your Internet goes down, you have not lost your connection to the local network, and you would just reboot your cable modem (or similar) and router, if necessary. I have been using Windows 7 since it came out. This is not a Windows problem, but it is hard to direct you further without seeing your network. You should really post your ipconfig/all results if you need more help. Also, when you loconnectionnnection, just try opening an command box, and going ipconfig /release , then ipconfig /renew. 

and hit enter If that does not work, open the Disk Manager, delete the partition, and recreate it as a primary partition, and then format it. 

That is because there is no SMTP server for "SMTP2Go.com", so Putty is just closing an impossible/non-existent connection. Their SMTP server is actually "mail.treshna.com". Check out this NSLOOKUP for them. 

I think it is coincidental with your re-formatting, and that your fan just died. I would stop using it until you replace the fan. You are going to fry your motherboard otherwise. You can consider taking apart your laptop enough to expose the fan, and see if it is even working at all, especially on boot, before Windows has any effect. I also routinely recommend that people use compressed air to blow out their laptop's exhaust ports for their CPU fan...at least monthly could make your laptop last a lot longer. 

I looked, and it seems to be a lot more complicated with non-VL versions, and will require you to directly edit an XML file. This is the best document explaining how to do this I could find: $URL$ It is simple with the OCT if you have it, not so simple, if you don't. 

As you check each subkey, look for this key in the right pane, "", with the value "". Double-click it and edit it to be "". You may need to reboot. I am not sure. 

I followed this document, and downloaded "Resource Hacker" (linked on the page) to edit the dll. $URL$ To anyone trying this: BACKUP MSGINA.DLL BEFORE YOU DO ANYTHING. The exact bitmap depends on the version, and frankly, I am not which one it is. Note that the bitmap only covers the top half of the login box. The rest is still contained within the msgina.dll, and can also edited using Resource Hacker. If you are using XP Pro, the image you probably want is in Bitmap>101 or 107. You can use use Resource Hacker to copy out the bitmap, and to bring it back in. The string text is contained in String Table>114. I did not check in detail, but this also covers your bonus question too, I believe. 

There are 2 REALLY hidden files used to keep track of settings for the Recycle Bin for each user. Explorer does not pick them up, but you can see them by running this command from a command prompt in the \Recycler directory: (the /ah means with attributes of "hidden", and the /s searches sub-directories too). For more info on the INFO2 file, see this: $URL$