The first stop is a locale related issue. I have had locale issues before, but they didn't keep me from booting. I find it strange thought the message: It says then that it cannot remove the same file 

the problem with this was when I added this to and the actual script to This is the content of the script (I did it according to a tutorial, so I'm not expecting the problem to come from here): 

I messed up the boot on a raspberry pi that is meant to run an important project. It started when I was trying to get a script to run at boot. I tried creating a daemon and I successfully started and stopped the script using: 

It currently boots to a point where I can ping it from my computer, but I can't ssh to it... After the edits i can say: is not even running (the SSHFLAG was not deleted and IPFLAG was not created. I can still ping to the pi though...) The pi shows activity on the SD Card and the ethernet port Like mazianni asked, the content of my inittab (confirms default runlevel is 2): 

I have a raspberry pi connected to a DS18B20 temperature sensor shown in the diagram below. The one-wire software is installed and I am able to successfully read the temperature from the devices folder/file in . 

I am having trouble with a dht22 sensor. It works well for most of the time but randomly the library I am using can no longer receive a reading until I unplug then plug the sensor back in. (just disconnecting and reconnecting the GND pin is often enough) Then it will work for a while longer until the problem repeats. I will try to describe my setup pictured in the drawing above in detail. The picture above is not a proper diagram drawing so please ask any questions if my text description falls short as well... The DHT22 hookup is pretty straight forward 5V to pin, pin to ground, pin to a pin ( 24 in my case). I am pulling up the to 3V3 with a 4.7K Ohm resistor. I am using the library. Here is the code which involve a loop in order to ignore the first couple of "bad" readings from the DHT22. (the DHT22 always gives the first two or three reading for temp and humidity as -999) also An important note is I am using about 10 feet of cat5e cable to connect the sensor directly to the pi. 

As you can see, they are all symlinks but the README file. So, I just got access to an HDMI TV that I used as a monitor for the pi, for the lack of a better medium, here are some screenshots and what I think might be happening: 

After this I updated the rc.d defaults with : I can't be sure, but I think after this it didn't boot... I also tried at some point using a cronjob and I'm pretty sure I forgot the & at the end to run on a different thread. I tried editing the cron from the SD card though and nothing changed... How can I disable these boot scripts directly from the SD Card so i can boot the Pi again and fix this? I've been going through the logs, but I'm not sure what to look for... I'm running Raspbian. Anything else that I can get from the SD card and can help you, just ask and I'll post it here. EDIT: After posting this question I realised that ike goldilocks said, creates simlinks in the runlevel directories, which I proceded to remove all that refered to my script. Like I said in a comment to his answer, I once used the following script in to update the ssh (I'm posting the whole to prevent people from saying it misses the ): 

I did not write modification to the SD card using it. FS backup I mounted my fs as read-only and tried to copy (cp -a) the whole files to another directory (this is because I made some changes since I cloned from Class4 to Class10 SD). Apparently, it finished without errors. What should I do now ? Now I have a backup of my files, but I don't know how to repair the failing SD card. Should I rewrite partition table ? But how (which partition size for /boot, other partition to add, create a new MBR and how) ? So what should I do now to restore my Class10 SD card with the backup I made ? What tools, what procedure should I use ? 

Depending of what you use your RPi for, you may be insterested in IPE, which is a "blackout-proof flavour of Raspbian". I plan to use it to boot my RPi. If I need data to be writen, I will use an USB drive that I'll mount readonly (I prefer my SD to be safe and corrupt an USB drive than having to repair my SD) See the IPE homepage As indicated there, "Also, use “ipe-rw” and “ipe-ro” to switch the root file system to writeable or read-only mode." 

The other part of my diagram shows the connection for a relay. There is actually 5 relays connected. they each share a rail and a rail. Each relay has its own connection used to send a signal to a transistor that acts as a switch for the relay. The reason I mention the relays in my problem is I suspect that my issue could be that I am drawing to much current from the pi. What basic steps should I take to begin trouble shooting an issue like this? How can I accurately calculate the amperage of my circuit to determine if I am drawing more than avaible? ( As I understand the mx from the 3v3 rail is , and the max from is the max of the power supply to the which is 2000mA in my case) I dont know the resistance of the relays or how to figure that out accurately either. As a secondary question id like to ask about a recommendation for wiring the dht22 that was detailed in the DHT22.py library file: 

Adding a RTC is possible with (e.g.) this OLimex Product. Some code is provided here. Will rtcwake work with it ? You'll have to test it. 

When I shutdown my RPi, I always use "shutdown -h now" command. Yesterday, my RPi was up and running since 4 days. What I already did Testdisk I ran testdisk and it indicated some errors 

I have a Raspbian installation on which I installed a lot of stuffs. A few weeks ago, I bought a Class10 16Gb card and cloned my raspbian installation from my old Class4 4Gb SD card to this new SD card. I did not expand the old FS to the whole 16Gb partition (I planned to create another partition later but this is not a problem for me). The problem Everything worked fine until yesterday: 

I had this problem after exiting XBMC and going back to console screen: everything stayed black. I solved this by calling once /usr/bin/xinit 

I set my first server to play stream.m3y playlist. I set a song to play on my second server. Result: the song is played from the RPi. Well of course, no interest here (the song is played from the server where the audio content is). But The suggestion Setting up a MPD server on a RPi is easy to do (there is a lot of articles on the web explaining this). If you set a streaming server on your Ubuntu and redirect all your audio to it, you should be able to play it on your RPi. Apparently (see here) you can redirect your sound card output and stream it (using ices2 and icecast2). You could also use DarkIce (see this link) to do this. Let us know if it works and if the quality is correct !