The idea of this code is to add a certain number of coins if the player watches an advert (the number of coins is calculated by the ad provider). Thanks in advance 

I also have a list of BoundingSpheres (called spheres) that adds a new bounding sphere for each line from the file. In this program I have one item (a simple box) that moves (it has its world matrix called matrixBox), and other items are static entire time (there is a world matrix that holds those elements called simply world). The problem i that when I move the box, bounding spheres move with it. So how can I bind all BoundingSpheres (except the one corresponding to the box) to the static world matrix so that they stay in their place when the box moves? 

The way I've programmed it, AI traveling to a destination will calculate which tile gets it closer to it's goal (they use jump point pathfinding to find their way around) and then they calculate which tile they'll move to the next turn. Other AI check to see if a traveling AI is around them and if there is, they move one space to the side (or at least they're supposed to move.) Does anyone know a way to keep this from happening? 

The result should be: 1 blue group (all hex's connect) 3 green groups 1 black group Any suggestions? Thank you. 

The game servers wait using BRPOP for new games. When they get one, they wait until the game has a minimum of 2 users then start a timer. If they don't fill up in that time, they begin with the users they have and subsequently remove game:queue:small:id (thus forcing the matchmaker to request a new game). Whilst my method is working, I'm not convinced it will work well in production and it seems very convoluted. I can see the potential for the following issues: 

We are making a scroller type game for mobile platforms and we got pretty far (Beta is already out). Now we are adding some additional content and are starting to experience a noticable lag when starting the game. I know about coroutines, but never actually used them, so I was wandering if it's possible to use them to instantiate larger GameObjects (or groups of objects). This is the code we use at the moment to create bullets (this is just an example, I have more similar methods): 

Blue is walls, white is floors, orange is doors and green is the designated "center" of that room (usually used only for A* pathfinding.) I kind of already had an idea of how I could find the available space, but decided to ask because I wanted to know if there was an simpler way of doing it. 

I'm working on a dungeon generator and I'd like to be able to connect rooms through other rooms. What I currently have set up is two dictionaries and a map (an int array.) The first dictionary holds room templates separated by height, width and type (so: .) The other dictionary holds rooms that have already been added to the map and uses rectangles as keys. I'd like to be able to find the maximum rectangular area that could fit into an empty space, then select a template room accordingly. So what would be the simplest way for me to do that? Edit: Admittedly, I was a little vague before so here's a little more information. My current method for creating the map follows certain steps: 

If the commented out part is included, Unity throws the "incompatible manifest merge" error in the building process: 

The problem is this: When I use the mouse to move the box (the commented part in the third if condition) the collision works fine (I have another part of code that I removed to simplify my question - it calculates the "address" of the box, and by that number I know that the collision is correct). But when I comment it (like in this example) the box just passes trough the lasers and does not detect the collision (the idea is that the box stops at each laser and the user passes it forth by clicking on the appropriate "switch"). Can you see the problem? Please help, and if you need more informations I will try to give them. Thanks 

Using a similar method as before, create rooms necessary to the game (shrines, barracks, treasure rooms, etc.) and place them randomly throughout the map, checking if they collide and moving them accordingly. 

I'm currently working on AI and, as stated above, I'm having trouble figuring out how to keep the AI from getting stuck on each other. More specifically, I'm working on two different behaviors for the AI: 

I've started rewriting some of my code (npcs, navigation and such) and I need some help with my new navigation system. Basically the way it works is: the game generates a random dungeon. For example: 

I'm working on a XNA project (not really a game) and I'm having some trouble with picking algorithm. I have a few types of 3D models that I draw to the screen, and one of them is a switch. So I'm trying to make a picking algorithm that would enable the user to click on the switch and that would trigger some other function. The problem is that the BoundingSphere.Intersect() method always returns null as result. This is the code I'm using: In the declaration section: ` 

For this post, we'll assume my game is multiplayer chess as it essentially requires the same functions. User logs in to the server and requests a game - the server provides a simple matching service and once done, they start the game. They get 30 seconds timed by the server per turn with 6 players in each game and however many spectators (probably very limited). I would like to know how you would scale this. I've considered two options: Option 1 1) Main server to handle login / match making (which regardless of user numbers should be a fairly easy task) 2) Start new Node servers for each game that close when the game ends. I'm not entirely sure how this could be implemented yet. (i.e. would the user connect to the main server still and the requests just be passed to the new server or would the user change connection to the new server and then back again when done? changing connection would reduce the load even further and as the two servers won't require communication between them, should be fairly simple) Option 2 Have 1 Node server and somehow scale it. -- Suggestions / input? I'm planning on hosting on Amazon AWS and am well aware that the chances of my game even warranting this level of detail are probably nil but I'm taking this as a learning opportunity. Thanks. 

Like I said, the game recognizes the other buttons, but not the x-axis, it doesn't move the character. The Input.GetButtonDown is there just so keyboard input would be supported also (and it works properly). Can you see the problem with this code or settings? Please advise. 

I have a program that draws some items to the scene by loading their positions from a file. Now I want to place a Ray on the same location where the items are drawn. So my question is how can I calculate the position of the ray (it's 2D components) by using 3D coordinates of each particular item? The items don't move anywhere, so once they are placed they stay until the end of the programs execution. Thanks. 

I'm working on a small maze puzzle game and I'm trying to add a compass to make it somewhat easier for the player to find their way around the maze. The problem is: I'm using XNA's draw method to rotate the arrow and I don't really know how to get it to rotate properly. What I need it to do is point towards the exit from the player's position, but I'm not sure how I can do that. So does anyone know how I can do this? Is there a better way to do it?