Not clearing it sounds like a bug in Firefox indeed, but apparently the developers feel otherwise. Like in March 2015, someone wrote: 

This takes the earlier results as the input for which takes the k-th smallest number shown earlier in . (That list happens to be sorted from 1 to 7, but that is not even required for the function.) Here, we set to the current row number minus 1 to ignore the header row again. So for the 3rd row, we get the position of the 2nd positive value in . But for and down no value is found, showing an error. In : 

Holding down Alt while clicking allows one to drag buttons from the toolbar, or rearrange them. (While doing that, the mouse pointer will also look different. And it will also work for menus, not only for toolbars.) It seems to me that the Alt key is somehow stuck. (Or at least Outlook or Windows think it's pressed; it might actually not be stuck within the keyboard.) I guess just hitting Alt also solves the issue (so, without pressing any other key together with the Alt)? The Windows' Accessibility options allow for "Sticky keys", which implies that one does not to really hold down Alt to make Windows handle it as being held down. Maybe that option is somehow enabled? 

The same in the Dutch Outlook: "Re: Betr.: Re: Doorgest.:" for "Re: Re: Re: Fw:" which should probably be just "Re:" then... I am no AppleScript expert, but based on the samples in /Library/Scripts/Mail Scripts/Rule Actions, this might get you (or someone here at Super User) started. However, this is not at all a working solution, as I don't know how to make Mail persist the changes. The following will change the subject as shown in the message list, but not the same subject as shown above the message when viewing it. Even worse: restarting Mail gives one the old subject again. I assume one needs to change the actual source of the message, not just the subject. And maybe AppleScript cannot even do that, but it felt like a waste of time not to post my tries here. ;-) (EDIT: attempts to change the property of a message yield ... Maybe the actual file must be changed on the file system?) For testing, it's easiest to create a script that runs for the currently selected message. Like: save the following in a text file named, for example, and then double-click it to open AppleScript Editor. Then just click the Play button: 

But, as meanwhile your message file has become huge: be careful. If possible, first try to backup your profile folder, and before you start: read the other instructions. 

After the , anything you type up to a line with just a dot, will be considered to be the message. This is totally independent of the you already issued above. The headers go first, then a blank line, followed by the body text. Just paste something like the following. Again, don't change the addresses: 

Those are two different things. I doubt it's not a router. And page 15 of the AP's manual shows it can surely act as a DHCP server as well, hence creating your own private network which is surely to be preferred anyhow. What if you try that? (Be sure to set LAN to dynamic, to make your IP get one IP address from the provider.) Finally: anything interesting in the AP's log? 

It's indeed the existing, current session on the server, the same you would see when looking at a screen that is attached to that server. Apart from being able to take over applications that are already running in that session, it is also sometimes required to install certain software (like PostgreSQL) that will not allow installation through a regular session. 

If you enable "Developer mode" in then you can also see the ids that match those random names. On my Mac, Adblock Plus is at version 1.8.5, and that folder on my file system says it was updated September 8th. I don't use YouTube Center. 

Alternatively, you could change the server side to send HTML formatted emails that specify a fixed-width font, or even use for the layout. 

Maybe you could create some message rule, which applies to all messages, and then run that rule on your local folders? That will basically move the messages one-by-one, so should not hit some limit of 600 messages. 

Apple calls this "View in Place". You can control-click the text and choose to display it as an icon (if it is indeed actually an attachment), but as far as I know Mail will not remember this setting. It can indeed be confusing at times. Like for PDF, the way an attachment is displayed depends on the number of pages. To switch it off: 

You might be (have been) suffering a really large file (holding your bookmarks and history, which may already have expired). You can compact that: Quit Firefox, wait until you're sure it's no longer running, and then: 

That is not how caching proxies work. Instead, they sit between your computer and the internet, and try to cache resources (such as HTML, CSS, images, videos) that you and others (usually: your browsers) download. And such proxy will do that automatically; you cannot tell it what to cache. Also beware that, for sharing with others that use the same ISP, proxy servers can only cache resources for which the originating web server has defined that the cache can indeed be shared (like using HTTP headers, without, e.g., ). Also, as proxy servers cannot see the contents of encrypted traffic, they cannot cache anything that is served over HTTPS. 

Above, the line specifying the content type should be the first to appear within the , for otherwise the browser wouldn't know how to handle special characters in the . More important, the first two odd characters, , are in fact the hexadecimal codes FF and FE, which like the online service already noted, is the Byte-Order Mark for UTF-16, litte-endian. So: the web server promised to send UTF-8 but then it sent markers that indicated UTF-16 LE. Next, in the HTML document, it claims to be using UTF-8 again. Indeed, Wireshark shows that the actual HTML document is UTF-16 encoded. This implies that every character is sent using at least two bytes (octets). Like the 6 characters in are sent as the 12 hexadecimal bytes . However, this very web site could very well have been plain ASCII, as it doesn't seem to use any non-ASCII characters at all. Instead, the HTML source is full of numeric character references (NCRs), such as: 

However, does not seem to be allowed in . And some basic testing seems to reveal that the proxy also always adds its own header, and translates my into . This could very well be related to the shared virtual hosting that I used for some quick test. But cannot be used in . See Apache's mod_proxy, mod_headers and mod_rewrite documentation. 

After downloading a file (that might have been split into many smaller parts), missing or damaged parts can be recovered by using parity files (PAR files, often in the form of parchives). The parity file mechanism itself is not at all limited to RAR files. But the ability to split RAR files into smaller parts, combined with the availability of software for RAR/PAR, may have made RAR a popular format for huge downloads, like in newsgroups. According to Wikipedia version 3 RAR no longer needs such files, as it has its own recovery files. (But I feel this still is not a good reason to use that proprietary format.) 

The dialog that is shown is simply a JavaScript . This is not an answer on how to close an abusive page on Safari, but for Chrome there are some ways. As they're not obvious at all and might work in other browsers too, here goes: 

I don't really know how to combine the results from columns and into a nice overview. You could use the same formulas for conditional formatting though, to apply some specific formatting to the values themselves when unique. Above I did that in columns and , using conditions like: 

You might see some indicator in your browser's location bar (for some browsers, look at the right, not at the left) or developer tools (for IE hit F12 to open those). 

It even refuses to highlight common words, which (nowadays) are actually allowed in a search all by themselves, like "how": 

Clicking "Buy now" gets one a page that includes a link to the Questions & Answers, with many questions you might want to browse through. Like: is the cable long enough to get to a computer that is underneath your desk? As for your question, there is an answer, but I do NOT know how authoritative it is: 

(And to stop, hold down Ctrl and press ], if the connection is not closed automatically, and type or .) 

Years ago, I always used Exifer for Windows. I guess it's too old for nowadays' standards, but it had some big advantages you might also require for whatever you choose: 

In the System Preferences » Language & Text » Input Sources search for any language that is enabled but still seems deactivated (grayed out). Deselect and select to fix that. You may also need to ensure U.S. is selected. 

No, in this case you do not need to worry. Your download was taken from the very same server, owned by the Mozilla Foundation. Don't trust on that next time though! How can you tell you were safe today? When using Chrome, you nicely get: 

The Mac OS X 10.6 Trash shows an option "Put back" for files that were trashed after installing 10.6. However, it does not show where the file will be put back to. So: using Finder, is there any way to tell where a trashed item came from? (I know the original locations are stored in , so if I really need to know where a file came from, then I can figure it out using something like .) 

On Mac OS X, GlimmerBlocker can work as a proxy for all your browsers. It blocks Facebook by subscribing to the right filter: 

While does not work in my Firefox 55, going into Tools, Page Info, Permissions I get the button "Clear Storage": 

In Windows Event Viewer sometimes the standard blue "For more information"-link, in fact brings you to a very specific knowledge base article: 

Not specific to Firefox, but you could use the Fiddler debugging proxy, and set a breakpoint on the response. Or use a script like (I guess): 

System Preferences, Accounts shows this in tabsheet "Login Items". The above could be useful to add or remove applications that are not in your Dock. To automatically start applications that are in your Dock, simply right-click (Control-click) the icon, and enable Options, Open at Login. 

Avoid sharing cookies: use a dedicated domain However, to avoid very nasty problems with session cookies, I'd prefer a dedicated domain (preferably not even some subdomain of ). For that, remove all references to above. And to still send the expected domain name, I assume one could add an additional: