Where is it documented, well this page lists every control character, with how to enter/represent it with the control key(though the first one, ascii character 0, has no control key representation), and it has nothing for character 127. And it provides sources at the bottom $URL$ One might wonder, given that there are 33 control characters (ASCII characters 0-31 so 32 charactres, + character 127. so, =33 characters) How they would be all represented as there are only 26 letters in the alphabet. Well, it uses Ctrl-A for Ascii character 1, Ctrl-Z for ascii character 26, and there once it reaches Ctrl-Z, it uses It lists Ctrl-Z as SUB, though in DOS and the cmd prompt it's EOF, and as a techie user you use it when doing where is your file. You enter the text and terminate it with Ctrl-Z which funnily enough doesn't enter an EOF marker. But does tell CMD that's the end of the file so CMD writes it. That cs.tut.fi webpage gives this as a source $URL$ but it's a broken link, but available on archive.org it's in the form of JPGs American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASA standard X3.4-1963 $URL$ 

Your title is completely wrong, there is no missing hdd connector here. One hard drive is a PATA hard drive, the other is a SATA hard drive. That's all. Simple as that. Some older motherboards only support PATA, some less old motherboards support both. And modern motherboards only support SATA. And if the hard drive is in that sense "incompatible" and you want to plug it in then you can use an adaptor, they're often cheap. 

It is possible for somebody to delete somebody else's message. I've seen a troll do it once. It seems one can include headers, along the lines of Cancel-Lock or Cancel-Key , to prevent others from cancelling your posts. I've seen the same trolls do it probably to prevent their posts being cancelled. Here is some info on it.. $URL$ Cancel-Locks in Usenet articles. "1. Introduction: The Cancel-Key & Cancel-Lock headers These two headers MAY be used by posters, posting agents, moderators and injecting agents in order to mark articles they process and to verify canceling, superseding and replacing articles that may subsequently be issued for those originals. They MUST NOT be altered or created by any other agents. The scheme works by including a "Cancel-Lock: " header and contents in an article. Further articles that wish to cancel, supersede or replace this article can include a "Cancel-Key: " header which contains a code-string that when hashed yields one of the code-strings in the "Cancel-Lock: " header of the original article. These headers are intended to be used as a simple method to verify that the author of an article which removes another one is either the poster, posting agent, moderator or injecting agent that processed the original article when it was in its proto-article form." -- As an example of the problem.. This is a very liberal usenet provider, which many usenet trolls use. $URL$ They allow irrlevant cross-posting and allow users to be a nuisance on a newsgroup.. but they draw a line on a few things e.g. "DataBasix propagates but does not honor cancels. DataBasix users may not cancel posts made by another with the exception of posts forged in user’s valid address." (as far as they are concerned.. people can always killfile a user.. and like many liberal usenet providers, they don't allow the troll to morph- eg change name, to avoid a killfile).. So they're not malicious usenet providers exactly.. Altopia is another one like databasix. And if a troll is reported to have violated their TOS, they are meant to be dealt with.. But yes, it is possible to deletee your posts and even somebody else's posts! And they go from google's archive too. It may have a limit like 3 months or something.. On a related note, the other way posts can disappear is with a header in the post that the post should only last a certain number of days, then disappear. Some people do that. I think that'd be the "X-no-archive: Yes" header, which can be a nuisance to anybody reading in the google archive - since that one honors that header. 

So then you the batch file has generated a plain list to sum. and obviously this line of the batch file does the summing 

I think your intuition is correct. I don't think it can know/decide via port forwarding. You can only port forward to one of the computers, and that has to be decided by your configuration of the router i.e. you decide either computer A is to be the one that the router forwards requests on port 80 to, or computer B is. 

I am on Windows 7 Ultimate. I have done done start..ctrl panel..programs..turn windows features on and off...and ticked Subsystem For Unix Applications 

OK.. All photos in the 2 albums are retrieved. As to how, and as can be ascertained from comments I made and with michail's remarks. There are two albums.. $URL$ one has 100 photos, the other 63 photos. Here the one with 100 of them $URL$ Here's the album with 63 of them $URL$ Taking the source code from here, first album $URL$ Extracting the image URLs All the thumbnails end in _72_p.jpg We don't want them we want the larger versions, they require in the URL that amin.fotka be changed to a.fotka, and _72_p be changed to _500_s This is the same for the second album.. so for example, for the second album with 63 photos $URL$ here is blist3.txt A list with all the JPGs listed in _72_p form $URL$ You can get that with a line like this.. 

A regex like a[bc] means a followed by b or c. So 1[01] covers 10 and 11. You could do 1[0-3] for 10-13 though we're not on the date of 13th yet as of writing. This would be 07 or 08 or 09 or 10 or 11... 13. 0[7-9]|1[0123] . 

While you tagged it mac, I haven't tried a spreadsheet on a mac, but you've also tagged your question microsoft excel so i'll answer for microsoft excel. Try sticking a dollar sign before any letter or number that you want to remain constant e.g. to make or constant for , try or or 

I suppose perhaps you have simply bound your web server to your 127 address rather than your 192 address or the 0.0.0.0 address which allows any connections even outside your lan (though a firewall can secure it). if you do netstat -aon you'll see 127.0.0.1 look for your particular web server, how to bind it to the correct address. If it showed up in netstat -aon as 0.0.0.0 then your problem should be solved. I think if it's bound to a 192 address that might work too for the rest of your LAN. 

i'm not sure that I do either. It looks like they might just be the same as well known ports but not as well known.. i.e. one could call them less well known ports. And the so-called well known ports are < 1024, and the so-called registered ports are over 1023. Really technically it doesn't matter what IANA say a port is for. People can run servers on any port they want as long as they know or find out what is running on the port so they know what they're connecting to / what port to connect on. Of course if you're dealing with people that expect something to on a particular port or software expects it, then you might want to use that port. Like port 80 for webpages.. and some use port 8080 for internal web. Or as a memory aid you might want to stick to convention. As one layer of security people sometimes run a server on a high port so a hacker can't guess it. A NAT router if doing port forwarding, would port forward to them too. So the distinction you made, is the best. The dynamic client side ports, and the server side ports. And yeah if any NAT router is doing port forwarding, they'd do it to the server side ports. And IANA seems to have lists that name the server side ports numbers with what conventionally would be on there, and they categorize the lists, with the conventions for ports < 1024 as "well known"and the conventions for ports > 1023 as "registered" which I guess is like less well known. But technically I guess there isn't really a difference beyond that. 

^M is char(13) aka \r and ^J is char(10) aka \n. You tend not to see ^J listed as ^J though. For \r\n it's ^M^J Some editors might let you enter in ^M and/or ^J with control. And given the ascii table, and that i is the 9th letter, no doubt ^I is char(9) - tab You can see the characters clearly with xxd -p, but we'll try your command as well cat -et We see that when cat -et shows $, it means \n So ^M$ is \r\n 

^^^^^^^ THERE IS THE PROBLEM see the esb is wrong from the point of view of the logic of your program. And keep pushing any key to continue, see esb is 1. In your program's logic, esb=1 (english subtitle count == 1) means you are at the first one and you want default=yes for the first one and only the first one. But of course, esb isn't going to reflect that. Because when you hit later subtitles, french, spanish, whatever, your count is still going to be 1. The whole logic of your program has to be rethought, because it's not based on count that you want to do it, or not just on count. It has to be a)when it hits the first subtitle/audio b)the first time it hits it I added 2 new variables. eng_aud_flag and eng_sub_flag There are a load of statements that echo stuff which I used to find mistakes I made while rewriting the logic of the program. I have left those statements in there REMd out, so you have an idea of how to debug At one point I wondered why some code wasn't executing, so I put an echo statement there saying GOT HERE, and then I found out why it wasn't executing, and fixed it. I then no longer need that echo but I left it there REMd out so you have an idea how to debug things. 

boot off a windows 7 usb installation flash drive, and run startup recovery, and you can also try going to the command prompt from the installation usb, and run things like 

If I do then it fixes the funny characters a bit. There are less squares showing characters that aren't recognized, but there are still unrecognized characters. 

The Win7 firewall has an option about blocking IGMP inbound rules, new rule, Custom, choose Protocol, then choose IGMP. outbound rules, new rule, ditto I see no such option in the XP firewall. It knows of ICMP but not IGMP. The following is kind of in Morbid's answer win7 $URL$ that is kind of within morbid's "answer". Set IGMPLevel to 0 WinXP $URL$ all the TCP/IP parameters are registry values that are located under one of two different subkeys of 

And there's babelpad too, which has that and even has tools..character map and its character map goes beyond FFFF even to 10FFFD babelmap goes that far too here's babelpad's character map goes even to 10FFFD 

I have managed to install Windows SUA(Subsystem for Unix Applications), in Windows 7 Ultimate. I can run the commands in straight from cmd.exe but I want to try running commands from the korn shell. I see ksh in the start menu if I type in ksh into the search box. But I get an error when I try to run commands from there. I see if I click start and type ksh, then I see ksh.bat which is in c:\windows\SUA\common\ksh.bat When I run ksh.bat and then do I see directories including And for the record I have here 

In Bash, the shell deals with it. You see that if you even try without echo Note- based on some comments, I would suggest when running * ENTER, to create a directory and use the touch command to make some files, and make sure none of them , or at least make sure the first one alphabetically, is not the name of any script or command in the path. 

With cygwin, you could use to make a key And you could use 'cat' and maybe the 'file' command, to look at the key and check the format too. Apparently there are a load of key formats. 

We see here they haven't worked The Guest can still see port 445. nmap run from guest file sharing still works. 

What changes in a system restore, is -your registry -some things in a user profile (so that includes your desktop). If it's in "documents and settings" then i'd suggest moving it out -probably some things in your windows directory -your program files directory. If you want things to be safe from a system restore then move them to c:\blah This usually means some things within "documents and settings". since you probably won't or won't get much benefit backing up anything in "\program files" or "\windows" Some applications store their data - some of which may be important to you- in an "application data" directory. Browsers(storing form data, and passwords), and Email Client's data. And that may be worth backing up if unsure. But It won't be too much data to backup.. If you have better info on any specifics, about what in the program files directory, or windows directory, or "documents and settings" is messed with, then you can apply that knowledge. But it should be certain and well tested! otherwise be safe and just backup what you need from those. But outside of those, I think you're fine. That's what i've found from win xp anyway. In vista the principle may be similar so c:\blah would be fine. 

You have to select the option in tools...folder options about multiple explorer windows. "launch folder windows in a separate process" Then it will work. That will alternate between opening an ew explorer instance and not. You can do task manager,.new..explorer.exe OK and it will open a new instance of explorer.exe I have tested it. It works in Windows XP and Windows 7. That is the option you want. But i'd be interested if MSalter's option works for you too, do comment(on his answer or mine or your question). It may be that MSalter's is what you're looking for, opening different windows, but i'm currently finding that I always get different windows. Like if I do start..run.. then type one folder name and press ENTER. Then do start..run.. and enter another folder name, they open in different windows always. Update- this may be a bit fiddly. as the option MSalter mentioned is probably relevant as this one may be relevant. There may be differnces whether that same folder is already open or if it's a different folder you are opening. Certainly the above covers for an instance of the explorer process, and that may have an impact. i'll have a further look as this may potentially be a bit fiddly. Though for sure it's either MSalter's option or the option I mention here, or a mixture. Though I see Florin mentions a solution too. 

192.168 is 255.255.0.0 but you can have a subnet that is 255.255.255.0 as you do. So for 255.255.255.0 that's /24 leaving 8 bits. 2^8 is 256. minus two as mentioned so 254. Apply that to the 172.16 So 12 bits for the network. That leaves 20 bits for the host. 2^20 = 1048576 IP addresses. subtract 2, one for the subnet one for the broadcast. 1048574 IP addresses for hosts. If you used 172.16.1.0 as your subnet then that could be a 255.255.255.0 address so again, 254 IPs for hosts But the 172.16.0.0/12 subnet if you're going to use the /12 and not make it a /16(255.255.0.0) or /24(255.255.255.0), then the broadcast would actually be 172.31.255.255 That is due to how masks are calculated including more complex masks like /12, but there's often no need to use subnet masks that aren't /8 /16 /24 

regex or a bit better regex so there's your regx. replace that with nothing. or with \r\n Added An explanation. Match the beginning of a line then any and all characters(though not new line 'cos we ticked that dot doesn't match new line box) then match all lines after UNTIL this thing that you don't match. (?=^1 .*) So lookahead just to what's immediately coming up as the next character but this time, don't match it, and look for the line beginning with 1 then space then whatever. IF when looking you find that, then match the position. So see that everything the regex identifies, is matched. From the text identified at the start of the regex, to the regex lookahead that identifies a position to match, and is at the end of the regex.