When we install Linux on Raspberry Pi with a NOOBS SD card, the original data on the card is erased as it becomes the storage device for the new system. I have just bought a 16Gb NOOBS SD card, and I would like to make a copy on a blank 16Gb SD card, so that I can keep the original card as backup in case anything goes wrong and I want to repeat the installation. Please, how do I go about that? I am running Fedora 20 on my PC, with zshell, and I have a USB SD card reader/writer. 

I originally set up my Raspberry Pi to start up without requiring a login username and password, but some friends (still friends in spite of it all) did something so that it now requires a login. Unfortunately I did not make a note of whatever the username and password were, and trying all the obvious ones doesn't work. I have read of safe mode, and now have a command line after shorting pins 5 and 6. What I need to know now is to find out what usernames are available, or stored, and then I can set a password. Please can someone tell me how? Alternatively, is there a way, at this safe mode command line, to set it back to the state where no login is needed? 

You are correct. In your case, you will need to forward both ports 22 and 5901, as you said. Instructions for doing this vary depending on your router, but the basic process is as follows: 

Prior to starting an X server running OpenBox, I am able to networks successfully. I have tested this by successfully pinging (Google's DNS server). Soon after launching any graphical application such as a web browser, I am unable to access the Internet. responds with when attempting to ping . I can still ping successfully, but I get the same error if I attempt to ping my router. I am using a Model B, overclocked to 800 MHz, running Arch Linux. shows that version of the firmware is installed. The system ran perfectly with both HDMI and composite output and did not drop the connection until recently, when I enabled HDMI hot plugging to fix video issues with a new display. I read the tip on the ELinux wiki, but it appears that that issue was fixed last year. Has anyone experienced anything similar to this? 

EDIT: I tried using omxplayer's -w (hardware audio decoding) option, but it crashes after launching. 

In the absence of a more authoritative answer, this is my solution so far : using I have set the keyboard layout to and . At least, now, the keys produce on the screen the symbol that is printed on them, and both the " and \ keys do give those symbols. One final point, I did not see any instruction to do so, but I found I had to re-boot for these changes to take effect. 

I'm still experimenting (my term for blindly thrashing about) and find that uncommenting the line "#disable_overscan=1" brings the bottom into view. This is counter-intuitive since it looks like overscanning is disabled. 

I have recently installed Jessie on my HDMIPi, and the first thing I have tried to do is to install simplecv, but every attempt so far has failed. Now there is most likely a load of rubbish in there that it would be nice to get rid of. Is there a way to go back to the situation just as it was immediately installing Jessie, what I might call a "factory reset"? I can't simply re-install from scratch (can I?) because the Noobs SD card will have been overwritten. I have nothing I want to retain from what I have done so far, and I assume that trying to un-install will not succeed since nothing installed properly.. 

I can connect to SSID and ping to 192.168.9.1. Its working well. I am using Static LAN cable connection when not using the WiFi hotspot.So I changed my configuration to 

Adafruit PiTFT screen working perfetly with my Raspberry Pi. I can run my application using the command xinit /home/pi/Desktop/MyApp from the command line. The application will display in the PiTFT touch screen. To start this application automatically I placed this command "xinit /home/pi/Desktop/MyApp" in rc.loacal script but the application is launching to HDMI monitor instead of PiTFT touch screen. I tried "" too I noticed when I run xinit in terminal by using sudo the display goes to HDMI monitor "" 

Now my hotspot is not working. I can connect to SSID but unable to ping to the IP 192.168.9.1. How I can keep the static IP configuration for LAN and hotspot in the configuration. Following is the list configuration I done in my system My dhcpd.cof contain 

I am trying to control a fan using Raspberry Pi. For that I tried to use the PWM pin in raspbery Pi. I am using Qt C++ to control the fan. I installed the wiring Pi and run the Wiring pi using command line and I checked the man page of Wiring Pi. The man page not given any exact detail to set frequency and change duty cycle I failed to set a fixed frequency(25KHz) and set duty cycle from 0 to 100% using wiring pi and man page details. How toset a fixed frequency and vary duty cycle in Raspberry Pi PWM pin using wiring Pi or any other solution I can use in my Qt C++ code to control the PWM pin. 

I am a complete novice with video, so I would please like to know how I can view this clip. If there is a general tutorial on video on the RPi, please could you direct me to it? 

I have recently installed Raspbian Jessie on my HDMIPi and want to use SimpleCV I have, I think, installed Simplecv with these two cammands: 

I had to include the to avoid a "" error. The final message was ""Succesfully installed SimpleCV-1.3" but when I type "simplecv" at the command prompt I get "bash: simplecv : command not found" Please, what have I done wrong, or left out? 

I have just installed Jessie on my HDMIPi and the display goes outsize the visible screen on the right hand side and the bottom. I have tried to correct this by altering the overclocking values in config.txt but without much success. I do not understand how these overclocking values relate to the display. Pleas can someone explain the link between whatever clock speeds these represent, and what is shown on the display. I lose three lines at the bottom on the command line console display when full screen. Perhaps this should go in a different question, but is the visible area of the display affected by changes to the font size, i.e. is it anyway connected to the disappearing side and bottom.? 

One final note: If you're tunneling VNC through SSH, then I don't think you'll actually have to forward both ports, as the VNC session will be tunneled through one port through SSH. However, I'm not absolutely sure on this. 

I have a model B currently running Arch Linux ARM, clocked to 800 MHz. I tried playing a video with omxplayer, and while the video plays flawlessly, the audio is pitched very low, and includes clicking and hissing sounds. I tried both the analog and HDMI outputs, and the result was the same. Could this be a hardware issue, or am I missing some drivers/kernel modules? For reference, here is some information about the video: 

Enter your router's configuration page, and enable port forwarding. Within your router's port configuration page, set whichever ports you want to be forwarded (22 and 5901, in your case) to be forwarded to your Pi's IP address. To do this you will need your Pi's local IP address, which is (in most cases) automatically assigned by your router via something called DHCP. The issue with this is that if, for example, your Pi is assigned a local IP of 192.168.0.11 today, it may be assigned 192.168.0.12 tomorrow. To ensure that the PI's IP remains constant, you'll have to edit the network configuration file for your distro's network manager. If you're using the Arch Linux image provided on the official site, you'll be using netcfg. Check some of the configuration examples on the Arch wiki for info on how to use a static IP. Once port forwarding has been set up, SSH into your Pi by using your public IP address and the port specified in step 2. Keep in mind that chances are that your ISP does not supply a static IP to your router/modem, so your public IP may change from day to day.