I would say both are OK, but I prefer the second example. The confusion stems from something that you know as absolute. 

Note: I am using RDBMS wording for constraints, in general is an internal uniqueness constraint, foreign key is a subset constraint (inclusion), and is an internal value-comparison constraint. 

There is nothing circular in any of these cases. In "circular reference" scenario you have "a chicken and an egg problem" -- can not insert a row into a table because it is always missing a reference to some other table, like in: 

| Student record (RecordId) was generated for student (StudentId) by teacher (TeacherID) in school (SchoolID). Student record is identified by RecordId. If a student record was generated for a student by a teacher in a school, then that student must attend that school. If a student record was generated for a student by a teacher in a school, then that teacher must teach in that school. 

The only problem that the author of that article has is not understanding database design. The problem in his examples is simply lousy design stemming from insistence on single column PKs (IDs), and not understanding how business logic relates to DB constraints. In the second example, his design assigns re-sellers commission based on the user and the product, instead on an actual purchase, which makes no sense business-wise. In the first example it is possible to assign a user to a task outside his project scope; again nothing to do with "circular", but not knowing how to implement constraints. 

First thing to notice is that the PK on the LineItem table has three attributes , as opposed to just two in your example. Second thing to note is the confusion resulting from the use of the generic name for an attribute. The should ideally be (1,2,3..) for each customer and (1,2,3 ...) for each order. Well, this is nice if possible, but requires a query looking for the previous max value, like 

| Student (StudentId) attends school (SchoolId). Each student may attend more than one school, for each school is is possible that more than one student attends that school. If a student attends school, then that student must exist. If a student attends school, then that school must exist. 

the error messages you got because you don't have privileges to log in to the server so you need to grant the user the necessary access. some tips to solve this issue: 1) Mount the remote disk locally (map network drive). 2) Use rman CATALOG command to make the backups available. 3) user has enough privileges on ORACLE level 

since you are already logged in into MySQL then you need to inter the following command to read and execute text file 

If enabled, checksums will be calculated for each data page. you can read more about check some in the following site: $URL$ or the following website also tell about checksum $URL$ Use checksums on data pages to help detect corruption by the I/O system that would otherwise be silent. Enabling checksums may incur a noticeable performance penalty. This option can only be set during initialization, and cannot be changed later. If set, checksums are calculated for all objects, in all databases. 

I am moving databases from one instance to another (by detaching databases from the first instance, move and log files to another location, and attach them to the new instance), unfortunately could not attach some of them, and miss calculate number of databases that have issues, how to check all files that is not attached to SQL server from specific directory. 

You can have an auto-Incrementing column, as long as there is an index (key) on it, to fix this issue you need to execute those commands: 

you can also use the following script $URL$ to check foreign key problems and fix them. Regarding rebuild / optimize table this may cause problem, it happened to me once on SQL server. not sure about MySQL. my bad since the answer is not organized enough, I will try to re-organize it soon. 

Explanation: This error occurs when there are not enough system locks to complete the current command. SQL Server then attempts to obtain a LOCK block to represent and control the desired lock. When dynamically configured, the lock limit is determined by the available memory. When statically configured, the lock limit is determined by the setting. Action: you have two options earthier wait for sometime and re-execute the same command(s), or reconfigure locks value by executing the following commands 

| Teacher (TeacherId) is licensed to teach in district (DistrictId). For each teacher, that teacher may be licensed to teach in more than one district. For each district, more than one teacher may be licensed to teach in that district. If a teacher is licensed to teach in a district, then that teacher must exist. If a teacher is licensed to teach in a district, then that district must exist. 

which is often not preferred in high-transaction-volume environments, so it is common to see these replaced by an auto-increment, essentially serving the same purpose. It is true that this auto-incremet is now unique, hence it can be used as a KEY -- but you may choose to look at it as a necessary compromise for the . So, with some renaming and -> you may arrive to this model 

Though there is nothing cyclical here it does have few problems. For example, the model has no relationship between and , although you do state that "District has many Counties". It is also possible to have such that that teacher does not teach in the district the county is located in. 

| School (SchoolId) is located in county (CountyCode), district (DistrictId). School is identified by SchoolId. For each school, that school is located in exactly one county, district. For each county, district; more than one school may be located in that county, district. If a school is located in a county, district; then that county must be located in that district. 

One possible fix may look like this, though I do not think this would be complete solution, but it may be a good starting point. I will use predicates -- marked by | -- and constraints (italics) to describe the model. Predicates map to tables and constraints to PK,AK, FK. 

I prefer the first case when possible -- you choose your favourite. And obviously, there is no need for direct FK from to in these three cases. 

| Teacher (TeacherId) teaches in school (SchoolId), in district (DistrictId). Each teacher may teach in more than one school in a district. For each school in a district it is possible that more than one teacher teaches in that school. If a teacher teaches in school in a district, then that school must be located in that district. If a teacher teaches in school in a district, then that teacher must be licensed to teach in that district. 

This will show you the needed info, and you can check Activity Monitor too some useful links: $URL$ $URL$ 

The problem with command, you changed the user to posgress but bash (to be more specific environment) owner still root or the original user, in-order to fix this issue use instead of 

add another RAID 0 ==> means you added another drive that will not be best solution for you. that will be nice if you are using more than one DB instance. Adding another MySQL VM==> why you want to do that? Migrate to MySQL cluster==> Cluster can use one storage or multi storage. but will not fix the issue for you, I would go for it ifyou want to increase the performance and reduce the timeout. 

I am using oracle 11g R2 on and created a lot of databases. At that time there was no problem. But currently I am seeing that in (Database Configuration Assistant) application some options are disabled as follows:- 1 Create a Database - ENABLED 2 Configure Database Options - DISABLED 3 Delete a Database - DISABLED 4 Manage Templates - ENABLED I don't understand why this happening but in starting all the options were enabled. EDIT : file content, inside ** 

Make sure the MySQL server owner is MySQL:MySQL using and the permission level is 755 for everything except 644. then execute the following commands after changing the information inside to the correct one. 

Since you have the following error message that mean either is not correct and/or the domain you are using. How to know if everything is working fine or not? You need to execute command, lets say the output is , and execute lets say the domain name , then you need to edit like the following 

Management Node: is the Node that process reading the cluster configuration file and distributes this information to all nodes in the cluster that request it. It also maintains a log of cluster activities. Management clients can connect to the management server and check the cluster's status. Data Node: This type of node stores cluster data. There are as many data nodes as there are replicas, times the number of fragments. For example, with two replicas, each having two fragments, you need four data nodes. One replica is sufficient for data storage, but provides no redundancy; therefore, it is recommended to have 2 (or more) replicas to provide redundancy, and thus high availability. Node: This is a node that accesses the cluster data. In the case of MySQL Cluster, an node is a traditional MySQL server that uses the storage engine. An node is a process started with the and options, which are explained elsewhere in this chapter, possibly with additional MySQL server options as well. Note: Node is the specialized type of API node. Please refer to MySQL webpage for more info: $URL$ 

This is simply not true, you should modify your belief to something like: "Often it is beneficial for a table to have a single-column primary key because ... " 

If you prefer single-column then you can ADD them to and tables, but you must keep the existing ones as (unique) and reference them in foreign keys where applicable. 

Instead of searching for tips and tricks (deferred constraints included) I would suggest that you simply design your way out of this "reference lock" -- so try something like this: 

| County (CountyCode) is located in district (DistrictId). County is identified by CountyCode. Each county is located in exactly one district; for each district that district may have more than one county. If a county is locaeted in a district, then that district must exist. 

Which is fine, but introduces PATH DEPENDENCE -- you can not join with directly, must use in the join. 

This is the root cause of your problem. There is no such thing as a parent table in relational model; foreign keys are constraints, not navigation paths. You are dragging OO terminology into a relational DB and these two do not match -- paradigms are different. 

And here is how it looks in an ERD; note that comments (grey) are not necessary, used only to illustrate the method. You may also note that it is not easy to express all the constraints here -- if comments are removed the [c2.3] will not be obvious. 

So, both R1 and R2 are in 6NF and therefore in 5,4,3,2,1. There is no in-between -- it may happen that in some specific example you may see "progress" 1, 2, 3, BCNF; but that is an exception, not the rule. 

And now a bit modified model where is a dependent entity (note rounded corners). Here can not exists outside of the context of the . 

This is not about natural and surrogate keys, but about concept of independent and dependent entities. Here is your original example 

P1 Course named (C_NAME), assigned a course number (C_NUM), exists. .. and constraints c1.1 For each course name, exactly one course has that name. c1.2 For each course number, exactly one course is assigned that number. The predicate leads to relation; the constraints to -- well, constraints like: PK, AK, FK, CHECK etc. 

I found the Answer after long investigation, the problem in my case is under is not running fine, so in-order to fix this issue I need to use root user then navigate to and execute the script. it will ask you to enter the correct values and replace the old ones. after that open new terminal and use everything will work fine. Note in-order to get everything back to Normal state I copied everything inside the old into the new one. 

the answer is there MySQL can not write to the directory you are pointing inside , and it dose not have the right permissions. to fix this problem make sure the user MySQL has owner privileges on the directory that is pointing for example lets say the is located under , is located under and the socket is located under in this example you need to make sure and are owned by MySQL user, for since its a default directory for Linux user MySQL should have read,write and execute privileges. also you need to make sure the partition that contain the is not full "contain enough free space" 

how to avoid this log file growing? 1) Convert the Recovery Model to Simple Recovery 2) Start Taking Transaction Log Backup 

This problem may happen if you have multi MySQL instances on the same machine. There was pre-installed MySQL when the OS was installed, or using auto installation methods like : in this case when you type mysql it will point to the pre-installed one since the environment variable point there. you can test it by going to use this should show you the exact version of MySQL. 

when I ran dbca as administrator under windows server 2008R2 is used to delete the database completely ( database folder, control files, , redo logs, then remove all related windows services to the database), but recently I noticed when I use it I found the services still exist as well as the trace (still generated), mail folder inside oradata still exist, as well as I can try to remove it countless time. DB trace: 

Now restart your listener by executing and then try to connect to the database by using the following commands