I recently started using a KVM at work, and now every time I switch one of my machines sounds off Windows XP's connected or disconnected device wav file. Is there a way to disable this without muting the whole system (which is what I'm currently doing)? I went to the Sounds and Audio Devices Properties (from the Control Panel) and then the Sounds tab, and couldn't clear out the sound setting. 

I've been trying to make an Automator droplet that removes files of a particular extension from a directory. My Workflow has 3 actions (when I'm not debugging): 

I installed Lion on Partition A, so it's now 11.5 GB, after the Recovery HD partition took its share. I've tried booting holding down Option, and neither Partition A or Recovery HD show up, though both do with USB. Also, when it's plugged in with FW800, Partition A does show up in the Startup preference pane. When I select it and restart, though, it spends a long time before the Apple logo shows up, and I end up booted to my default, internal disk. I tried plugging directly into the front FW800 port, and also through other (LaCie) drives daisy chained to a rear port, and that made no difference. This is very frustrating, and would potentially make me return the drive if I can't find a solution. What could be causing this? 

It seems conclusive at this point that this whole thing was caused by remnants of my Parallels Desktop installation (specifically some networking daemon) that didn't get uninstalled properly when I switched to VMware Fusion. Since completely removing Parallels, as described here, I haven't seen "pe-xpjalle" in my sidebar. Thanks for all of the help. 

I am running Ubuntu 10.x on one of my boxes. Yesterday the SPM popped up during a session, with the choice to install the latest updates. I agreed (like I have done many times before). This time, during the installation, the system crashed, the SPM reported that a Python exception had occured during the installation (unfortunately, I don't remember on which stage of the installation the exception occured). I rebooted the system, since I could not get rid of the SPM dialog box which was displayed greyed out and was unresponsive. When I attempted to login again (after the reboot), I was met with a console screen with the following message (after a stack trace): 

At this stage, I am not sure if my USB stick is bootable or not (dosen't look like it is). I am thinking of installing a barand new OS on the stick, and starting from there - BUT, I don't know what the consequences of that will be (will I lose my existing data on my machine?). Help! 

What is the meaning of this messade? Why have the mounts failed? (most important) what are the steps required to I recover from this disaster? 

I have written a simple server application (with an HTTP interface). I want to ensure that only calls from the local machine are processed - i.e. I want to prevent outsiders from accessing/using my server. How may I restrict outsiders (i.e. requests from remote machines)? BTW, I am deploying on Linux 

The problem is that after the script runs, the "Open with" association is gone; the file opens with Console.app again. Is there any way around this in the script, like setting back the appropriate metadata after the line? 

It's not a "pure" Bash solution, but then, Mac metadata isn't pure Unix either. I am calling AppleScript inline: 

I have a brand new Western Digital MyPassport Studio, which I'd like to use as a utility drive. It will boot my Mac Pro over USB, but not over FireWire 800. Western Digital's support basically told me it's not their problem, although their knowledge base article states that the drive should boot an Intel Mac over FireWire. It's partitioned like so (using GUID): 

I wrote an AppleScript to accomplish the same task, but I won't accept this answer, since I still think something's wrong with Automator (or I'm not understanding something fundamental about it). This is the AppleScript for a droplet that accepts one or more folders and removes all files ending with and has been working flawlessly for months, now (on Snow Leopard and Lion). 

After some poking around and searching more, I found the answer, and it lies in ordinarily invisible data and metadata. The upshot is that iTunes LP primarily references files based on their XID. In order to assign the correct XIDs to the new files in iTunes, do the following (on a Mac): 

Right-click (control-click) the .itlp file in Finder, and Show Package Contents Open the file in a text editor (TextEdit is fine) Open a Terminal window and enter the command Quit and relaunch iTunes Find the tag in the XML file for the first song, and copy its attribute (the part between the quotation marks) Right-click (control-click) the first song in iTunes, and Get Info Because of step 3, the Grouping field will have changed to . Paste the XID copied in step 5 into this field Repeat steps 5 and 7 for each track (if they're listed sequentially in iTunes, you can use the "Next" button in the Get Info window to accomplish this more quickly Once you've assigned the XIDs for all tracks, run the iTunes LP file and everything should work Quit iTunes Open the Terminal window from before and enter the command Quit Terminal Reopen iTunes, and you're all set and back to normal 

Are you using the option to open files? That will cause VIM to open each file in a separate tab. if you use or it will open in a single tab but in separate windows (split horizontally or vertically respectively). If you just call VIM with a list of filenames it will open all of them in a single tab and show a window displaying the first. 

When the buffer opened you probably saw a buffer with contents that look sort of like the following (I created this by evaluating 

If you simply close that buffer (perhaps by hitting ) then you will not be given a new prompt immediately. If you hit return again in the REPL you are given a new prompt. However. The correct way to exit from the debugger is to enter the number of one of the restarts, or to move to the line of the restart you want to execute and then hit return. 

I'd suggest investigating keyboard macros in MSWord. I don't have a copy of Word at hand but there is a way to record your keyboard actions and then replay them later. You could, hypothetically, record a macro which cuts the selected text, opens the footer, inserts the text into a footnote, and then removes the surrounding it. Then select the LaTeX footnote and replay the macro. I apologize in advance that this is a hypothetical answer. 

I am using Outlook 2007 on Windows XP for work, and always hit to send messages. That's the shortcut in Mail.app and in MobileMe's Mail web app, and I prefer it to , which is Outlook's send mail shortcut. Spoiled by Mac OS X's ability to easily change shortcuts for any application, I've been looking for a way to change the shortcut. How can you do this? Update I ended up using TeX HeX's suggestion, AutoHotkey. The script I wrote is below: 

If you have a computer setup with iTunes reading from that NAS, then as long as that iTunes is running, you would be able to stream from that library with the Apple TV. You would need to have those movies in its library, but that shouldn't bee too big an inconvenience. 

You can also use the application X-Mouse Button Control to accomplish this. You only need to set the "Wheel Up" button to the "Scroll Window Down" command, and vice-versa. I am using this on Windows XP, but the app should work on 7 or Vista, also. It was very quick to set up, and since it's a GUI application, it was easier to use. 

I have an iTunes LP that I want to be able to use with alternate versions of the song files (higher/lower bitrate), but the iTunes LP isn't able to play the new versions of the files. What's missing? 

I'm connecting to my Snow Leopard (Mac OS X 10.6) from my Windows XP work computer using both TightVNC and RealVNC, and both of those don't give me access to the Option key. So to work around that, I tried using Keyboard Viewer, but that doesn't respond to clicks through these VNC clients. Does anyone have any suggestions? 

I run a script which generated about 10k files in a directory. I just discovered that there is a bug in the script which causes some filenames to have a carriage return (presumably a '\n' character). I want to run a sed command to remove the carriage return from the filenames. Anyone knows which params to pass to sed to clean up the filenames in the manner described? I am running on Linux (Ubuntu) UPDATE The character causing the filename to 'break up' accross multiple lines appear to be a CR (carriage return) instead of '\n'. The filename is being diaplayed in thetitle of a text editor with %0D in the positions of where the file name breaks up. So I need to remove the CR chars from my filenames. 

I am running a headless Linux Ubuntu 10.0.4 on my server. I only allow access to the server using ssh (and scp). I have a dev machine situated at home (behind a firewall) and I am able to copy files from my local (dev) machine to the server using scp. However, I now want to transfer files the other way, i.e. from the server to my dev machine. Anyone knows the best way to do this?. BTW, I am running same OS on my dev machine (Ubuntu 10.0.4) 

Update I followed Giles advice. I setup my my PC to bootup from the USB disk if all else fails. This time, I get the following message (shortened here, as I am typing it out) 

Get Folder Contents (Repeating for each subfolder) Filter Finder Items (File extension is "part") Move Finder Items to Trash 

I have a file whose extension is .log, though I have this particular file set to open in TextWrangler instead of Console.app (using "Open with" in Finder's Get Info panel). I have a Bash shell script () that uses SED to replace some text in a file, inline, like so: 

I just turned on Google syncing in my Snow Leopard (Mac OS X) Address Book, but I'm not seeing my Address Book groups in Gmail or Google Voice. Is this supposed to be the case? Is there a way to get it to work? 

It's #2 that seems to be giving me problems. No matter what I do, no files ever pass through its filter. When I expand the results for Get Folder Contents and any other Finder actions, I always see files in the results. But even when I specify the most permissive filters, this action never produces anything. If you want to debug this, just insert a new action up top: Get Specified Finder Items, dropping on any directory that has any files within it - although technically the "Filter Finder Items" should also be able to return folders. Update I'm now on Lion, and seeing the exact same behavior. I also tried replacing step 2's criteria with "Name ends with 'part'" but that didn't make a difference either. I ultimately ended up writing an AppleScript that accomplished the same task (see below). 

(would rather leave this as a comment - but I seem to lack the rep - I'll remove this answer when a real answer is given) Seems one of two things are likely happening 

I can confirm that update a package will delete (or at least attempt to delete) the old version of the package. 

That is not the expected behavior. The following is the function documention for on GNU Emacs 24.3.1: 

If your filename is named correctly (usually the extension) then should handle this for you. If needed you may need to add to in order to make be the one that is started for you. 

To debug the first case use to see the value of when you've opened a new file and it has doubled the boilerplate. To debug the second case you could add another function to the hook which uses to print out something (like 'HELLO from cperl-mode-hook') then check the buffer to see how many times you see it after visiting a new file. Given that the problem seems to go away when you downgrade to the old version of cperl then it seems likely that it is the second problem. You might be able to fix the second problem by createing a buffer-local-variable and checking if it is set before inserting the boilerplate - thus keeping it from being inserted twice. Hope these ideas are helpful. 

Did you try ( in the buffer)? If the files in the archive are in the mbox or similar format it might work. Another thing to try is to use () and pick the correct method and file.