I'm setting up Two-Factor Authentication for our small office that will be used to log in to the corporate web site. The TFA is used via the Google Authenticator app that works great, except for a situation when a person doesn't own a smartphone. So I was curious, can we buy a stand-alone hardware device (i.e. dongle) that could work as a Google Authenticator app? 

Let me explain with a couple of screenshots. I just upgraded from Windows 8 to 8.1 and now I get a bunch of useless shortcuts in Windows Explorer when I try to open a file, or if I just plainly go to . Stuff like this: 

I just got my new Dell tower and it came with this cable. On one end it had a DVI port and on the other end it had this connector with D and two plus signs: 

How can I return their previous look? PS. I went as far as tried to see if there's anything mixed up in the registry and here's what I got: 

I personally set it to run at 9 AM daily, but you can pick your own time. PS. I know, Microsoft Task Scheduler is an that needs a long tutorial of its own, but the good thing is that you have to deal with it only once. 

I need to buy an adapter from this port to VGA. Can someone tell me what is the name for it? PS. Following the discussion below, here's the picture of the actual port on the Dell XPS 8700 tower itself: 

Say, for 32-bit OS, we say that the largest available integer that the CPU can handle natively is 4,294,967,295, which in "human language" is 4 Gigabytes. So for a 64-bit CPU, such number is 18,446,744,073,709,551,615, but how would you call it? A gazillion? 

For the purpose of testing my own script that reports CPU usage I'm looking for a program to put CPU under a certain workload, for instance: 10%, 20%, etc. up to 100%. Is there a program that can do this? PS. Note that I'm not looking to do a 100% stress test only. I'll need to be able to specify the percent value myself. 

I'll be re-install my Operating system in my desktop, It would be a clean version of windows7. I wonder if there's a software that lets me install my application automatically or an easier way to install all my old application. I still have all my installer sitting in my hard drive. I just need a software to automate it, but not to hard to configure it. What would be the process that you would recommend if you're in my shoes. I'm still using my old windows 7 here in my desktop. But before I format my old drives, I would want to get your suggestions and opinions. I also stumbled on a cool software "Windows Post-Install Wizard" But the problem of this is I'm having hard time to configure it. Thanks! 

I found my answer and it's Chrom Dev Tool Autosave $URL$ It's an awesome way to edit css and js on the fly without leaving your browser. A short intro $URL$ 

[my process] in [Set1] I enter "bridge.hisdomain.com" in the hostname of PuTTy. after I hit Open It will open a terminal and will asked for a username. thats where I provide my [Set1] username and password. Ounce login, I then perform [Set2] Details. I will use "ssh username@123.456.789.123" after I enter it, It will then asked for my password. from there, when I do "DIR" in command prompt I will see al my files there. I wanted to download a directory there to my local drive but I am not familiar with the commands. I would like to access it just by using FileZilla or similar. And I've also tried this but I don't know what I'd miss, because It didn't work for me. I downloaded a .pem file from the [set1] because I can also access it using a regular FTP (filezilla) and I then converted that .pem file to .ppk. right now I'm kinda confuse what login info I should use for my FileZilla to access the server. I had success in loging via FTP using [Set1] login details. But my files aren't there. I only saw some folders and a .pem file. I can't login to my Filezilla using [set2] details. I tried FTP and SFTP. I also added the .ppk file in the settings of my fileZilla. But I had no success in loging in. any ideas what did I miss? 

Your file might be also locked by some other running process (like an antivirus software, or even a malware.) I personally install this small software that will let me see what's holding a lock on the file: LockHunter. Then when you install it, you can right-click any file and select "What is locking this file?" 

I know that one can use Windows taskkill utility to "kill" a non-responsive process. But what happens if I call it on a process that is running and has no issues -- will taskkill try to quit it normally first? PS. The reason I'm asking is because I want to use taskkill from a script to close one program, but I won't use it if it "forcefully" terminates the program's process without first letting it quit "gracefully." 

Go to Control Panel -> (Switch to classic view) -> Administrative Tools -> Task Scheduler. Set up a recurring daily task to run the following command (with double-quotes): 

Can I hide the links circled in red? The reason I don't need them there is because now I have to constantly scroll down to get to the files and folders that I actually need. (And if I fold them up with that little arrow, they come right out after a while.) It just wastes time! 

I have a tablet that runs Windows 8 Pro. Microsoft came up with a new power mode that they call Connected Standby, in which evidently all non-Metro apps are suspended when the tablet is put in a lower power mode (that is most of the time for a portable device.) The issue with this is that none of my desktop apps can wake it on schedule (including Microsoft's own Task Scheduler.) So my question is, how can you disable Connected Standby? 

And then you can either unlock it, delete it, or react some other way (if it's a malware.) IMHO, this should've been built into Window from the get-go. PS. My example above is kinda silly since I simply ran the calculator, so obviously its own process is locked by itself. In real example you'd call it on an actual locked file. 

Do you know any software or compilations that you recommend to handle drivers and codecs for newly formated computer? I am having problem gathering drivers and codecs when I format my computer or other's computer because we frequently misplace it's original drivers. I need an offline solution that doesn't need internet. Same for as the codec, when formating computer we frequently lost our codecs, are there codec packs you know that you would like to recommend? P.s. I had tried driver bot but it's only good when your online, I'm looking for a complete package that has all the driver to most common hardware (eg. Monitor, Sound, etc). Thanks! 

Hi I have a Windows 7 installer and I'd like to extract the built-in drivers of Windows 7 to be used in my windows xp install. Is it possible that I can make use of the drivers from windows 7? I'd like to install windows 7 instead of Windows XP but the hardware isn't ready for Windows 7. Drivers i'm interested is for Video and Sound. I also can't download drivers because i have a slow internet connection. Thanks! 

Notice that when i downloaded the images, i am only interested in placing them in the secondary directory ("vegetable" and "pets") and didn't include the first directory anymore... Is there any software that let me do this? I have a MACOSX and Also have a Windows 7, So any would do for me. Thank You. 

Are there software you know that can copy images from a DVD? now the problem is there images in the DVD that are corrupt that I won't force to copy, If the software can recover the file and copy it that would be cool, If it cannot then skip the file. The dvd is kinda large and I don't want to sit and wait there. I want the DVD do the decision, If it can recover then recover if it cannot, then skip. And do you know other solution copying corrupt files? thanks!