If you haven't heard of Everything, I can't recommend it enough. It will index all of your files in seconds and search through them in the blink of an eye. Everything only works on local NTFS volumes, though. Is there anything like this that searches network shares? I have a SAN that I want to do crazy searches through. We're talking terabytes of data. What do you use? 

I have an AD domain and I don't want my users to have admin privileges on their local computer. I have WSUS for Windows updates and stuff but what about Firefox, Flash and other third party program updates? Isn't there a better solution than to go to everyone's computer and give them my username/password so that the update will actually go through? 

A number of my users are complaining ever since an upgrade to IE9 that when they click a PDF link, IE gives the error 'Internet Explorer cannot display the webpage' (ie doesn't even call Acrobat Reader add-in). I can view the PDFs just find in Chrome, I can download the PDFs and open them with Reader just fine, but IE gives me that error when trying to open the PDF link directly. Where can I start? I've already seen the 'use FF instead' option so I don't need that :) 

I see that there were ways in Exchange 2003 and Exchange 2007 to just put in an LDAP query and it would populate the group for you. Is there any way to do that in Exchange 2010? I know there's dynamic distribution groups but I don't want to create the group based on one of their pre-set queries and I don't want to mess around with "custom attributes". I just want to put an LDAP query in there and make it run it to populate the distribution group. 

My problem arises when I sign into the in-built administrator account on the PDC. Though that account is part of the Domain Admins and Administrator groups, I do not have permission to view the subfolders and files. I don't see any inherited permissions that should prevent me from doing anything I want inside of these folders. Is there some magical button I have to hit when opening the folders? This is becoming increasingly frustrating. 

We solved this and got the files back. Under the advice of AWS support, I created an EBS snapshot of the storage gateway volume, restored it as an EBS volume, attached it to a fairly beefy EC2 instance and ran the chkdsk from there. Because it was an EBS volume directly attached to a computer and not going over storage gateway or WAN to do the chkdsk, it ran much faster than doing it other ways (still took days to run the chkdsk on 6TB of data on a 10TB volume). When the chkdsk finished and we confirmed that we had access to the files from the EC2 instance, we snapshotted the volume and restored it to our on-prem storage gateway. Moral of the story - if you're using storage gateway, know that file systems can be corrupted in the cloud and schedule snapshotting on your volumes in case it happens. 

I built this WDS server that I made into a RODC also. After running the dcpromo, it get this error message that the WDS service is not started and could not start. I found this so I tried changing the logon account to my domain admin account. Now it gives me an error when I try to start the service saying: 

alright, I've got one that should be really simple. I want a wide open smb share for my Windows 7 machine. Everyone should be able to access it, regardless of domain or username or anything. My smb.conf has: 

I have a GPO applied to my conference room computers that forces Outlook to use non-cached mode (for quicker opening and to save HDD space by preventing everyone's OST from being created). When I try to open Outlook it gives me an error message that says 

I have a Cisco ASA that I have VPN tunnels to connect my internal Windows network. I ran into some trouble logging into my domain so I unblocked all the ports on that internal interface. On a previous question posted here, the general consensus was that I should be blocking ports on my inside interface but my question is: what ports should I unblock? I've tried unblocking ports 88, 139, 135, 389, and 445 and Windows logins still give me problems. Is there some MS documentation somewhere that tells me what I need to unblock to allow Windows logins and other things? 

If I go into the email accounts in control panel, click the account, repair it and then open Outlook, it opens right up. Has anyone else seen this issue while forcing non-cached mode in Outlook? 

User is using Outlook 2010 connecting to Exchange 2010, along with Lync 2010 with UM enabled. When she gets a voicemail, it should show up in her inbox looking like an email with transcription and an mp3 of the voicemail. When you open the voicemail ('email') it shows 'form region could not be opened' in the preview pane. When she clicks on 'forward' to create a forwarded message, the transcription shows up and the mp3 is there. In troubleshooting, I turned off the 'Microsoft Exchange Add-in' and it made the preview appear - the problem was solved. I'm trying to find out more about this Microsoft Exchange Add-in. There's not much that I've found out there that tells me exactly what this add-in does. Can anyone shed some light on what it's for? Will I run into any trouble by having it disabled? 

I have two Cisco switches that are sending out DHCP BootRequests and they're hitting my firewall about once a minute or so. What is it trying to do? How can I stop it? 

I have a AD domain and have redirected the Documents folder for each of my users. I have the "Grant the user exclusive rights to the Documents" checkbox ticked so I can't get in to see their documents. I also have Windows Server Backup running a complete backup to a network share every night. I run the backup as a user that's part of the Backup Operators security group. I tried doing a Files and Folders Recovery and went in to look for a single file in one of my user's Documents folders and nothing showed up. What I'm wondering: does Windows Server Backup backup the files that are in the Documents folders that users have exclusive rights to? If my DC dies, and I do a full recovery, will all of their files still be there? 

and then a bunch of diagnostic information that I don't want to paste here because I don't want to have to censor all of the sensitive information contained (lazy) Can you guys throw me some possible reasons why this would happen? If there are an innumerable number of reasons, where should I start to troubleshoot this? 

I want to install a Windows 7 image on 40-something computers without touching 'em I have a WDS server, an image captured, and an answer file setup. I go to create a multicast transmission out of the image, but I can't see it on my client computer. I think it may be because my router doesn't support PIM (it's an IPCop firewall) but I'm not sure it would need to if I'm just multicasting to client computers within the network that the router. So my question: if I want to do this, will I need to have a router/firewall that supports multicasting in order to multicast to client computers on my internal network? 

I'm protecting a SQL Server with ASR and doing backups with Commvault. Commvault is telling me that transaction log backups are being converted to fulls because it detected a break in the log chain probably caused by another backup product. I dug into it and found that ASR's VSS writer is taking a snapshot once an hour and SQL Server is seeing this as a full backup. Has anyone had experience with this? I feel like the ASR VSS snapshot shouldn't be counted as a full backup of the database 

I can get into my Windows Server 2008 R2 primary domain controller via remote desktop just fine. It's my boss who's got his profile messed up. When he tries to log in, he gets the message 

I've got an interesting one... My users have always typed in 'mail' to get to their mail. There was an internal DNS A record that resolved that to the IP of the mail server. I'm putting in an Exchange server to replace that. In order for people to get their mail, I try putting in an A record that does the same thing as the previous one. When I try to get to OWA, it tells me that the certificate on the server is not trusted. I only have the names: 

I had to create a Join on the System Resources/Desktop Monitor ResourceID to get the System Resources Name attribute to tell which computers the monitors are connected to 

I want to be able to see a nice picture of nested groups in AD. Are there any products that do that for me? 

I have one guy at my company telling me that I should put FF:TMG in between my main Internet-facing firewall (Cisco 5510) and put my Exchange server and DC on the internal network. I have another guy telling me that I should put the Exchange server and DC in a DMZ I don't particularly like the idea of having my mailboxes and DC's usernames/passwords in a DMZ and I think that Windows authentication would require me opening up so many ports between my DMZ and my internal network that it would be a moot point to have it out there anyways. What are some thoughts? How do you have it set up? 

So I'm trying to set up OWA, but I don't want my users to have to type in I've got the http redirect setup to redirect all requests to /owa so that narrows it down to I don't think my users are smart enough to type in that 's' at the end of http every time they want to access their mail. I want it to redirect to the full url with the 'https' and all I've read this which tells me that I should be able to use http redirect to redirect all traffic to if I just type in the absolute path to the page. When I do that, I get an error saying that the page isn't redirecting properly. So I do a URL rewrite. I download the URL rewrite module for IIS and follow the instructions listed here. The page redirects perfectly! Then I'll sign into the forms-based authentication and the same error as before pops up - the page is not redirecting correctly. Can someone give me a solution that works for them?