You can download a plugin in asset store to regulate vibration. here's a link: $URL$ or you can check this one it's FREE: $URL$ 

You could create a variable for example called of type float and make it equal to the amount of seconds you would like to wait, then in the function subtract from your variable. Afterwards use if statement to check if the variable is equal to zero, if so rotate the object. 

In the scene I have a capsule with a camera parented and a looking script so when I look down or up the weapon slightly moves forward and then moves back when I look straight forward. weapon when I look up or down- 

I don't know what u tried and what exactly could be your problem but I would suggest you check if all the navmesh is baked properly and you could also change a few things in NavMeshAgent properties and see if it gets fixed. You could also prevent collision between navmesh agent and the player via NavMeshAgent properties or scripting. 

So in unity I have some weird squares on surfaces of certain objects, which are buildings represented by planes: I don't know what causes it, I tried changing some settings in lighting and material, but couldn't fix it. This only occurs with one object which is a few planes representing buildings temporarily. The lighting is baked (one directional light). Here's the screenshots of lighting and materials tab: 

I have a problem, my camera is parented to the FPS Controller prefab, then there is a script I wrote for the rotation of the player horizontally by mouse movement, it all works but the rotation is very choppy and not smooth. How can I have the camera rotating smoothly or should I not parent my camera to the FPS Controller at all and make the rotation through scripting if so then how? here's the script of character rotation: 

In order for it to work you have to parent the bat to the bone and not to the hand. In that way it will move with it and follow all the animations of the bone. 

You could create a variable to reference the ball in the player script and just push forward or pull backwards in this script as the direction will be depending on the player, something like this: 

Select a tag to all triggers called "Ignore Raycast" this will make the Ray ignore the triggers and pass through. 

You could generate a random number(eg.integer) and then use switch to check cases for how many numbers you want, to randomize numbers use Random.Range(float max, float min). 

I have 3 suggestions. first: You might try and create the effect using a particle system. second: You can try and use TrailRenderer for a trail. third: You could try and create a mesh with such trail shape, parent it to the boat and depending on the speed/distance to increase the size of it on one/two axes. 

You could use Quaternion.LookRotation( transform.position - PLAYER POSITION ) which can be used to make the ball turn in the direction of the player and then you could add forward force to the ball for it to be pulled. 

I got this to work. The problem was that I enabled "Apply root motion", when I disabled it the animation worked properly. 

If the movement speed/direction is not multiplied by Time.deltaTime than the movement speed on different computers might be different, so it is always good to do that to ensure the speed is the same on each computer and not depending on the performance of it. 

You could disable the gravity on the Rigidbody and then just make gravity yourself by writing a script and using and just change YOUR GRAVITY VALUE when ever you want the object to be slowed down. 

You can use Vector3.Lerp(transform.position, WAYPOINT POS, Time.deltaTime) for smooth movement from one point to another. 

I would like to rotate an FPS camera slightly upwards during a shot as an effect of recoil, but the problem is that I have a mouse look script as well and I assume it prevents me from achieving the effect i want. So far I have tried using and 

Does anyone know what could be the problem and how I can fix it? Ask for more information if needed. Thanks. EDIT: The buildings were imported from blender. 

I would like to make an enemy walk randomly around a map I have made and if the player is in his zone of sight the enemy to change state to attacking/following. So how would I accomplish something like this? Currently I have no idea how I would generate random paths with collision avoidance. EDIT: I am making a 3D Game. 

Use physics instead to move your object like rigidbody.AddForce(Vector3). Using physics will solve your problem with bouncing. 

So I connected a ps3 controller to my computer via USB cable, when I press play I am able to move by using arrows on the left of the ps3 controller and also I am able to shoot and aim by triangle and circle but when I try setting up the 2nd Horizontal axis in the Input Manager by changing the "X axis" to 5th axis (so I could use sticks to move) and changing type to joystick axis I am not able to move. Also I tried creating a second "Mouse X" and also setting it to joystick axis and changing the "X axis" to "4th axis (joysticks)" nothing happens again, I tried pressing everything but it doesn't work. Anyone knows how I can make it work? 

You could create the GUI and disable it. After position the GUI by usin ScreenPointToRay(MOUSE POSITION) to spawn it at the position of the mouse and then enable it. Read more here: $URL$ 

You could check to which tile the player is closer to and then just set the position of the player to the centre of the tile. 

Does anyone have a better way to make an object with a rigidbody check for ground and then jump, right now I wrote a script where a raycast is cast downwards and it checks for distance but then I discovered that a player can still jump when close to the ground and when I decrease the distance amount on raycast then the jumping works a few times (5 or 6) and then stops working, so I had to increase the distance a bit and add a delay so the player can't jump for some time after a jump. But I think there might be a better way of doing it. So does anyone have suggestions on how can I improve my script or what other method I can use to make a character with a rigidbody to check if grounded and jump? 

I have a model that I made in Blender and also I have a gun reloading animation, the model has a rig. So it appears that the animation of the rigged model is devided into 25 different animations but in Unity I can't play all of them at once, if I play only one animation from 25 it will only animate one object (eg. hands) not the magazine or anything else. My question is how is it usually done to play animations from Blender in Unity properly or make animation properly in Blender. 

What should I change in the input manager to enable me to use a joystick? I have a usb cable to connect the joystick to the computer but how do I set up the controls? 

both rotated the camera upwards but then the camera moved back downwards to the initial position. Does anyone know how I can rotate the camera and keep the rotation? Or if there is any better way to achieve this effect.