Firstly, yes, what you want is possible. The phrase you're looking for is "Fine Grained Password Policy" which allows you to configure password policies based on Global Security Group membership. Be warned, though, while it's not too complicated, it isn't a process that's as slick as other areas of Active Directory. I try and avoid posting blind links, but there's probably too much to put into an answer here so here is a walkthrough: $URL$ 

I'm not sure you can achieve this - Item Level Targeting is a feature of Group Policy Preferences and, to my knowledge, there's no GPP way of assigning the "Log on as a service" rights. If you could find an equivalent registry key, you may be able to do this but a quick Google has turned up nothing. So, barring that, you'd need a GPO at each "System [x]" level or each "Servers" level. 

I've never ever seen any proof that the precise value of RAM matters on a virtual machine. I suppose it's not implausible that some legacy systems may somehow expect an even number, but that would just be incredibly bad engineering. Certainly - it's pretty natural for people to allocate in multiples, but this tends to be because they know Server [A] needs 8GB of RAM, rather than 7GB. If you want to give you server 3GB, then absolutely go right ahead; I use odd numbers all of the time. 

I have a HP R5500 XR UPS with a Management Card. In order to update the firmware for the UPS itself (I.e., not the management cards f/w) one has to connect, via a serial cable, to the management card and enable Pass-Thru mode so as the serial port connects directly to the UPS. I have done this and successfully updated the firmware, but I was wondering if there was a way to exit Pass-Thru mode without manually resetting the Management Card using the reset pin. In the past I've always done it manually, but this is a remote box so it's more of a hassle. 

To my knowledge this isn't possible - the "Applies to" description is merely a string embedded in the adm(x) file. There's no "IF" processing for this - regardless of what version of Windows processes the Group Policy it'll set that setting, whether it has any impact or not. Group Policy is exceptionally quick at processing individual registry based settings and I highly doubt this is the root of your problem, though. 

Personally, I'd not be installing it on Server 2012. It's clearly not a supported platform (Without UR13), so why would you do that? 

You generally don't. These systems use something like carrier grade NAT to share a single public IP meaning you would need ISP assistance to configure this. You're unlikely to get that. 

We're going to need more detail here - is this your office (I.e., are you in charge of the IT systems), and do you mean you have some kind of wireless internet provider? And what exactly is being hard wired in? If this is some kind of very small office (I.e., just you and one or two others) then any off the shelf wireless router will work. They're typically plug and play. However, it does depend on what sort of internet connection the company are putting in. If it's standard cable, and they're providing a modem with an Ethernet port then you'll be fine. If it's ADSL then you may need something slightly different. 

Forget you're a school and look at your numbers critically. You have 800 computers and nearly 2000 users. That's not a small company and I wouldn't really say "midsize" either. Schools IT is often neglected, but the truth is you should be using good quality enterprise hardware and software. And, indeed, that includes SCCM. It's hard for any of us to say what will definitely work in your environment, but you could certainly pick worse places to start. Of course, this is all easier said than done, but trust me when I say I've nearly every 'level' of educational IT. There's very little that's truly overkill for a network of this size - plenty that are too expensive, though! 

.htaccess has nothing whatsoever to do with Windows File Permissions. You need to read up on NTFS File & Share (These are different) permissions. That said, attempting to restrict domain and local administrators is fundamentally a lost cause as these can always be overridden. 

I'm not in the position to confirm this, however the "Policies" registry key is designed for Group Policy and will take precedence. The registry key should be protected from user changes and, depending on the implementation at a software level, it may also prevent changes within the application. There are other considerations with regards to the "Policies" key - for example, it should be cleared when a Group Policy stops applying. I know from experience that the keys will stay there while in a workgroup, but I'm not sure what will happen if you do a domain join and start applying other policies. In other words, both can be used but if you're attempting to enforce a setting for all users and don't intend to join the machine to the domain then Policies would generally be the better choice. If you may be joining to the domain or enforcement isn't your primary concern, then stick to the "Control" key. 

You need to begin a process of elimination - Windows does lots of things while the "Welcome" screen is spinning, but the good news is that most problems will be logged in the event log. Here's the kind of things I'd be doing: 

If you want to access the console, so that you're doing the equivalent of plugging a keyboard or mouse into the VM (Or using iLO / DRAC) then you must use the vSphere Client. That's just how it works on ESXi. Other than that, you treat the VM like any other machine and connect to it however you would if it were a physical machine. With Windows you'd need to use RDP, Linux SSH etc. 

Ideally, you shouldn't be running scheduled tasks using the built in administrator accounts My advice would be to create a service account and use that for your scheduled tasks. A service account is just a normal AD user, but usually has: 1) A VERY strong password (The kind you can't remember) 2) A meaningful name (E.g. svc_backup) 3) Password set to never expire 4) Configured so 'user' can't change password The bottom two are just configured in the users AD properties. You then give this account the relevant rights and privileges- ideally without making it a Domain Administrator. 

No, because snapshots are block-level delta disks so this has no way of working. Think of a snapshot like a "transparency" that goes over the original disk. If the original changes, then the snapshot will make no sense and the machine will be in an inconsistent state. This isn't a small topic, but essentially, when a snapshot is made - from that point onwards the original disk is "sealed" and changes are written to the snapshot. For completeness, I know for a fact that you can do what you want, manually, by copying snapshot files and altering the meta-data, however 

I'm sure this document should be allow you to work through and unlock the file: $URL$ I'd normally copy and paste relevant parts, but it's a substantial process to go through and diagnose what the issue is and unlock the file. 

Yes, you don't have a DNS entry for firemnidochazka.cz. You need to add one using your DNS control panel (I guess that's the topic picture). It'll probably need an entry of "." or maybe an "@" symbol. 

I think to achieve this, you need to do it with groups, rather than individual users. For example, the Server Manager task, which causes the Server Manager to appear on start up, is configured like this: In particular, using the "Administrators" group, and configured to "Run only when user is logged on". So, for your case, simply create a group called "ProcessExplorerUsers" or whatever and assign that as the user of your task. I presume you've already found the "At Log On" Trigger. 

Yes, you most definitely can run Windows guests on XenServer and VSphere and almost any other x86 and x64 compatible guest you'd like (If your hardware is 64 bit) 

This is probably nothing to worry about - this will occur when the original local profile folder doesn't unload or is otherwise corrupted. Basically, the first profile will be 

The advantage is that you will have complete local control over this domain, the potential disadvantage is that it create a full split DNS setup. Meaning that if a load of subdomains exist (E.g, mail.company.com, staff.company.com etc etc) you will need to recreate all these in your DNS Zone. or 

Don't forget to save the running configuration when you're finished, if required. *Edit: I've just re read your post and actually, I think you're doing exactly what I described in which case this is accepted practice and not crude as I initially posted. What would be crude (IMO) is using this as a way to automatically revert configuration in a weeks time or something!