There is some software by Gert van Loo (supplied with the gertboard) which enables direct access which I have used. See $URL$ for an example 

In the Pi2 and B+ this increases the total USB current across all 4 ports to 1200mA (from 600mA). Each USB port is still limited to 500mA. It has no effect on the Pi3 (which allows more current by default) and earlier models (which have very low current capacity). 

You would be better to use . Your claim that the Pi doesn't seem to support is not credible, as this is the default native filesystem, and has support for journalling. How are you trying to create this? 

"am unable to connect as user 'root' to move ssl certificate files directly into the root directories and would like to know why not?" It is inadvisable (and unnecessary) to enable . Even if you could, this approach will not work, due to a number of security and permission errors. Copy the files to somewhere in , then login to the Pi (using or directly) and move/copy the files. If you are trying to copy ssl certificates even this is unlikely to work. You should the certificate files, then on the Pi to the desired destination. I use this procedure when setting up new Pi images. 

Why did you use ? This is a link local address and is not routable. Use an address in the range of your local network. 

I can find no mention of except P5 of the Pi B Model 2. doesn't seem to have been updated since 2104, so it is not surprising it is testing the wrong pins. My question is - does anyone know if is used on current models? I had some vague idea it was used, but can find no reference. reports 

No. Not only would this be written for a different processor, the format is totally different. If you post details of the sensor there is probably a Linux driver for it. 

No (provided the connecting cable is the right way round). Even so, if you are that unfamiliar with wiring, You could connect the Pi to the breadboard without connecting the GPIO pin to the Resistor and measure the voltage. The Pi is not that delicate - the only thing likely to affect the Pi is connecting a GPIO pin to 5v. You are not using the 5v at all in the above. 

is accessible only to the user (here pi), but is not on the path for user. If you want to run with you will need to enter the full path . This is not the best way to do things, and is not actually a Pi question. 

There are very many, often contradictory, claims about the power requirements and limitations of the Pi. What are the exact requirements? 

Finally if you don't use Bluetooth (or have undemanding uses) it is possible to swap the ports back in Device Tree. There is a and module which are described in . 

You need to drop the "-i". What is it supposed to interact with? If you want the script to keep running you need to write one that loops and keeps running. If it only runs once at the command line (without the "-i") that is what it will do on startup. 

This question is not specifically a Pi question, but about how to FORCE the Pi to wake my monitor from sleep, which seems to be a seems to be specific to the Pi hardware, although it may be a foible of the monitor. I have a monitor (Samsung SyncMaster 740B) connected to my Pi. (The monitor is connected via a DVI-hdmi converter and a 3 port hdmi switch, but even direct connection often fails.) Normally this works well, however I seem to have problems waking it up. I normally turn the monitor off when not in use for a period, but on power up the display remains blanked. The LED in the power button blinks, normally solid when running. If I leave it in this state (turned on, blank display) it eventually springs to life, but this takes quite some time. Once it has woken up everything works as normal. I have tried many ploys to wake it up. Pressing Shift key usually wakes other computers, but has no effect on the Pi. I try in various combinations seems to have little effect. The Pi responds to keyboard (I can log on and see a new session over on another computer), can restart, switch , but the display remains stubbornly blank. I have tried followed by I have also tried switching virtual consoles, unsuccessfully. Even restarting the Pi does not always work. Does anyone have any suggestions. 

Will allow you to access Pi with Finder (or a better File Manager e.g. QuollEyeTree). Connection is much easier if you also set up public keys. 

No one can be sure what is going wrong. The interfaces file warns "Please note that this file is written to be used with dhcpcd", and while you are not using static it probable implies other settings as well. indicates that IP is being set by an external program. You should try a normal network setup. How to set up networking/WiFi 

No! It DOES NOT mean you are getting insufficient current! The voltage is too low. You can have a PSU which can supply 12A, but if it can't do this at an adequate voltage you will have problems. See Raspberry Pi Power Limitations Your phone charger may or may not be OK, but many chargers DO NOT provide 5V (they are designed to charge 3.6V batteries). Even for those that do, often the cables are often inadequate. 

You cannot run Linux on a RO file system (without extensive reconfiguration). There are too many temp and log files etc. What you can do is use a file system on a disk or USB Key. You need to change so it uses the external storage. Currently this will contain something like which points to the SD Card If you search this Forum you will find more detailed instructions. 

All Pi models use identical Video Core and will support HD. I haven't seen a monitor limited to 640*480 for over 25 years. If you are going to use a hdmi -> VGA converter performance will be mediocre, and the ability to power "active" converters can not be guaranteed. 

If each Pi is independently powered through the USB power connector definitely not! This would not be a good strategy for powering a cluster. A high capacity 5V supply to power all Pi in a cluster (through the 5V rail) would be a better solution (provided the supply is well regulated). Still do not connect 3.3V rails. It would be possible to power a small number (probably no more than 2) by supplying power via USB to one and joining 5V rails. 

BY definition you cannot ping (or anything else) to a Link-local address. It will ONLY work on a link, as the addresses are not routable. 

X11 is no longer included with OS X. XQuartz libraries are available, but I know of no tools which use these for . I suggest you install VNC on the Pi (I use ) and access from the Mac like 

As mentioned, you need to unzip the file to produce an to write to the card. It is unlikely that the SD card would be . Paste the output of as suggested in the guide. Running risks overwriting your system. 

Theoretically will "Halt, power-off or reboot the machine" There was historically some difference. The for halt, poweroff, reboot states "These are legacy commands available for compatibility only" AFAIK all should safely shutdown. In practice on Raspbian there still seems to be some differences. should power the machine off, but the Pi has no power control. (without any time parameter) has a delay before it actually shuts down. should shut down immediately, but sometimes I find it closes network connections but does not shutdown. In practice I use which results in the green LED flashing 10 times then shutting down. Powering off after the flashing stops sems to be safe. 

The Pi3 is set to supply 1.2A and is not adjustable. See Raspberry Pi Power Limitations for more detail. Whether this will charge the phone, depends on the phone. Many phones have proprietary protocols to set charge rate. 

Install PIXEL, which is the official Raspbian desktop environment included with the full version of Raspbian. (This step takes quite a while.)