I have successfully setup USB IR Receiver to control my Raspberry Pi media center running OpenELEC. After setting it up I programmed my Logitech Harmony remote too. Personally (and like AndyH mentioned above), I think this is the best and cheapest with least amount of work. Tested with Xbian too. 

Based on my experience, you are right that it may be hard to find a mini monitor (tablet-size) - there is no real market for it. You may find older 15-inch monitors on Ebay or CL but again they have VGA input you would also need a D-to-A signal converter/adapter. In my opinion, it might be cheaper to use a smalls-sized HDMI TV. But again, I am not sure if portability is an issue for you. 

I'd use Wifi and sockets. It's relatively simple to use Qt (or even plain C++) to implement a multi-connection client/server. There are lots of tutorials on the net. 

Is it absolutely necessary that you run OpenCV algorithms on the video stream? The raspberry pi is only capable of so much, and much of OpenCV's manipulations of intensive on the system. You may consider taking pictures and processing those. In a lot of cases, taking a few shots every second is sufficient to get an idea as to what is happening in the frame. Is this an option for you? If it was, you could use raspistill to get the high quality pics. If this is not an option for you, I have heard very little for solutions to this problem. The only other thing I would suggest to you is to try: $URL$ But I have heard that it has degraded picture quality, which I imagine is not what your wanting. 

Setup SSH on RPi (I recommend changing the default SSH port 22 to something else for security). We will call it ZZZZ. If you have not already done so, change the username and especially password to something strong. Many RPi distros come with default usernames and passwords. Restart your RPi. Setup port forwarding on your router or gateway - direct the SSH port number to Raspberry Pi's internal ip address If you have a domain name pointed towards your network's external IP you can use that host or use the external IP. Connect through SSH using host (domain or external IP), SSH port number, username and password. On Windows you could use PuTTY. To access files, you could do SFTP through Filezilla. 

The gui will allow you to see and enable/disable - graphically - all of the modules associated with OpenCV. When configuring on the RPi, make sure you uncheck any references to . This is the only REQUIRED step for you to take to get the library compiled. But there are lots of other things you can add on. NOTE: when you run It will take FOREVER on your PI. I would suggest running: So that you run the compilation using 3 cores instead of 1. This will cut down the compilation from about 3-4 hours down to around 1-2. I hope this helps... 

Abdullah, make sure you enable the camera module in raspi-config as Android Dev has suggested. But also, in my experience, you need to run this in cmd line before the Raspi Camera can be used: 

I think setting up VPN may be an overkill. But it also depends on what you want to do. If you let us know what your purpose is, we may be able to help better. With SSH I am able to do most things I want do remotely on my RPi. Just to expand on ppumkin's answer, here is a quick work flow for you (of course you may already know this but may help others): 

Can you explain a little bit here and I can try to help you. Are you trying to SSH into Raspberry Pi running openELEc from a Windows? On OpenELEC SSH can be enabled during installation. To connect to it, you can use PuTTY from Windows. Again you may already know this but your question was not very clear to me. 

Did the adapter board shown in the picture on amazon come with it? It will be required for it to work. From I'm seeing it seems that you need to connect the ribbon cable from the adaptor board to your DSI port on the raspberry pi. Look on your raspberry pi and just below the DSI port it will say "display". This is the port you want to connect the ribbon cable to. For powering the monitor you have three options. Using two separate uUSB power supplies, daisy chaining USB from the adapter board to the PI. Or jumping power off of your PI VIA the GPIO pins. I'm assuming you do not have any spare uUSB cables so I would suggest jumping off of the GPIO pins (Option 3). You will need two female to female jumper wires. You can get a pack of them on Amazon for about 5 bucks. Connect the ground pin on your PI to the ground pin on the adapter, and connect the 5V pin from the pi to the 5V pin on the adapter (As shown in the picture in the link you posted). Then run the suggested commands and reboot. 

It could be a buffer issue or just an incompatible hard drive issue. XBMC buffers videos into RAM and plays from it (cache). This can be a problem in Raspberry Pi which has low RAM. This is explained here. So play with different buffermode, cachemembuffersize, and readbufferfactor values in your advancedsettings.xml. I cannot give you the perfect combination that will work but either disabling cache/buffering or buffering in your SD card instead of your RAM (limited availability) might help. Note that if you cache in your SD card, it increases writes and may decrease its life. 

Xbian installation is the easiest. OpenELEC also comes close. Raspbmc takes the longest to install. I do not want to promote my own post but I compared the three XBMC distros in detail on my blog (you may google "Xbian vs Raspbmc or OpenELEC"). Xbian definiately has more features but I ended up choosing OpenELEC for my applications. If I am right Raspbmc developed has stopped. Sam has picked up new project LinXBMC but no word on where it stands today.