I would start from square one. Pulling all hardware out back to CPU, RAM, and Keyboard and minimal graphic support from integrated graphics or a PCI gard or something, 1 stick of known good RAM, along with a liveCD and try getting to a stable system. This includes ALL USB DEVICES except keyboard and mouse. (Had a powered USB hub cause issues once) Then, add back in the components 1 by 1 until you start having the errors you describe to isolate the offending component. The trick is you have to get to a known good configuration an they verify the integrity of each component. Admitadlly, you could probably plug all USB devices back in during one boot up, and all RAM stciks back in on another as a shortcut, but overall test and measure after getting to a good stable system. If you cannot get a stable system on a barebones setup, then you swap RAM sticks, known good PS, known good CPU, etc one by one starting with what makes logical sense based on the evidence of how the system is responding with what components. 

If you don't have hardware problems, then if computer asks to push a button to boot from CD after you do the initial load, don't, let it boot from the hard disk. Or, after the intial load, on the restart, go into the BIOS and change your boot order to boot from hard disk first. Do you have another computer? The laptop drives are standard SATA connectors these days. You could try to put the drive in another computer and load on that computer and see if you can reproduce the problem. If you can, it is the drive or the CD, if you cannot, it is a boot order or hardware problem. Also, you could download a Linux distribution (free and legal) and try to install that. If the install goes good, it probably is not a hardware problem. You can wipe your drive after the Linux install completes (if it does). FInally, highly unlikely but possible you have a rootkit virus. $URL$ Again, I would guess this is NOT the issue, but it can be. There are rootkit virus scanners out there though. 

Just cancel the delete dialog if you do not want to use it. Right-click on your Recycle Bin and choose Properties from the menu. 

I am assuming your dump is dumping the "training" database that does not exist. You need to format your command to reference the "training customers" database. You need to add quotes around your database name. A common thing to do for naming things with spaces (white space) in databases is to never include white space, and eliminate the white space with a name like "trainingcustomers" or replacing the space with an underscore (training_customers). Hyphens are less common to fill white space but a tertiary choice. 

You need unallocated space after or before a partition to extend into. To do this, you can simply move sda4, then sda3 further down the drive. This will create unallocated space after sda2. Then, you can extend sda2's partition into the newly "unallocated" space. 

A complete scenario includes different reliable mediums at diverse distances. Start with user files on internal RAID. Then, backup (incremental style) to internal drive (or another RAID) daily or more often. Then copy that back up out at the end of the month to another drive, tape, or the cloud freeing up your internal drive for the next month of backups. A scenario like this is not that expensive and is near enterprise level reliability only hindered by consumer grade hardware, software, and consumer user. But START WITH BACKUPS, then RAID. 

The simple answer is yes, it SHOULD work. There are many who have fit a PCIe x16 card of some sort, usually a video card, into a PCIe x1 slot through manual modification of either the slot or the card. That is, by either cutting the back off of the slot or cutting a notch into the card in the correct location. This is because the PCIe specification allows for PCIe cards to auto negotiate the lanes up or down. But sometimes, a x16 card does not respond like it is suppose to when it is modified for the x1 slot, even though the PCIe spec says it should; and therein it doesn't work. But this is an atypical situation. There are x16 slots on boards that are only x4 or x8 electrically by design. But between cutting slots on boards or cutting circuit boards and slowing things down 16x, sometimes there are hiccups. Again, it should work if you make your modifications correctly. 

Can SATA connectors have a little stress from the cable pulling sideways a bit and still provide a reliable connection? OR how critical is it that cables enter their connection without any stress and near perfectly aligned? What is advice for reliably packing drives into a case with no tidy backplane leaving a web of cables instead? 

You can do this. It is simple. Split the drive into two partitions using tools that can be found on the internet and move your data to the second partition. If you have less the 50% free, you will need to create a partition as large as possible, move as much data as possible freeing space on the first partition, then re-size the second partition to be larger allowing you to move more data until you have all of your data on the second partition. Then when you go to install windows, you should have a have C: and D: drive with your data on the D: partition and with the C: partition empty and ready for an install. Just beware the drive letters are arbitrary, so just make sure you are selecting the right partition as your work based on size or other labeling (like device\harddisk0\partition1) and your data will be safe. 

Data will get corrupted We will not know about it until after the fact. Due to budget restrictions and the lack of "mission critical", we do not have multiple copies of the exact same backup archives, only different iterations of backups. We want to minimize the copies of our backups while protecting against data corruption. If a file or two in an archive does get corrupted and we lose the data when we try to restore; life will go on. This is not a mission critical thing. The archives are a secondary backup and hopefully will not get used more than a couple times in a decade or less. A live backup exists uncompressed. 

Test and Measure. With no specific errors other than system instability, sometime testing and measuring is the most effective way to drive out a hardware issue. First you need to be able to reproduce the problem on demand. If you cannot reproduce the problem, then you will have a difficult time with the measuring part. Systems that crash every 1 hour to 6 days are the worst! Change the hardware in ONE way, then try to reproduce the problem. First remove ALL unecessary peripherals. Start with Motherboard, CPU, Memory (One stick), Power Supply, Keyboard, Video, and Monitor. Test with each memory stick separately. Swap video cards. Add a drive and load with only one drive. Swap any parts possible. Try a different OS install like windows? Check for cooling problems. Make sure all drive connections are good. Swap cables. The hardest are CPU and Motherboard since most people do not have these on hand and they can give extremely odd and elusive errors. I've had times when I could not even reproduce the errors on demand very well which made things near impossible to measure. Point is a motherboard and CPU can be the problem and your symptoms are indicative of something to do with CPU/motherboard. If it is not hardware, maybe a BIOS setting? Definitely low level. I've had write errors on hard drives that were power supply related; lock up errors that were CPU related; Memory errors and drive errors that were cooling (motherboard chipset) related. All of these solved through making a change and testing. Sometimes that required buying a part to test and measure; had to buy the CPU and Power Supply on faith. Just a note, be careful with tests; like I said, I had a memtest throw errors on the memory. Then I had seatools throw errors on the drive. I assumed that not ALL of those components were failing at once and found that the heatsink on the chipset was sensitive to dust build up and air flow. So just because you have memory errors, it is not necessarily bad memory. The same goes for other tests. In the end when all logs and errors run out of indication, test and measure. Good luck. 

Create a place for your summary of names and sums. Say you placed the names in cells C1-C4 & the sums for the names in D1-D4; then you could use a formula in D1 like the following for a name in C1: 

In the end, we will probably have upwards of 8-10 drives in the tower maxing it out. Trying to figure out if we will run into stability issues related to cabling even with care. Cooling and power are taken care of. While cable management for the fans and power leads is in order, this still will leave many stiff SATA cables all running from and to the same point(s) 

Just buy (2) "2F to 1M RCA splitter" (google it). You don't NEED a switch. A switch is nice if you want to be able to not have to turn the sound down on the TV when you want to listen to the Air Play. As to sound quality, unless your have system that you have cost you 2K$ or more and you have a listening environment to support it, you probably cannot tell the difference from 4$ connectors and 40$ connectors. Possibly on really bad ones you could tell, but unlikely you would get connectors that bad. Connectors that bad aren't cheap, there defective. The mixers allow you to adjust the volume of each input relative to each other while they are being played at the same time. You don't NEED that either unless you want it. 

There are many variables you are not considering that make impossible to objectively compare YOUR GPU performance for a dual GPU setup simply by comparing PCIe lanes on a motherboard. 

$URL$ This worked for me on an OEM Dell Laptop. If I remember right I used a generic Windows 7 Install that was same type (pro) and when I did not have a key for activation (because windows activates via hardware) this did the trick. You're "mileage" will vary. 

I received a hard drive for a boot partition. I copied the old partition over using DiskCopy. After the copy, the computer would not boot with both drives in and the new drive as the primary; instead the computer reboots after posting endlessly. Nothing comes up after post, it immediately reboots. The drive seemingly works as a non-boot drive though in both the computer in question and another. So here goes on what has been done. Used windows recovery mode to fixmbr and fixboot. Put the drive into a linux box, and noticed it was NOT flagged as bootable, so I flagged the drive as bootable, then fixmbr, then fixboot again Checked boot.ini and it showed the correct drive and parition and other settings. Set the only BIOS setting pertaining to hard drives for performance to "Bypass". No change. Switched drive back to secondary and put old drive as primary, computer rebooted like normal from old drive. Chkdsk new drive with /f switch, chkdsk finds a free space discrepancy with the MFT and fixes it. Fixmbr and fixboot again, still reboots after post like nothing has changed. Tried booting with just memory, CPU and HDD (minimum power usage); no change. Booting from the old drive with the new drive as a secondary gives the boot selection that only shows the old drive install which starts normally. The computer is a Dell E310 and about 7 years old; The drive is a 160GB WD Raptor HLHX drive. Not sure if the drive would be too advanced for a basic dell computer of this age; I doubt it. Bought listed as new on ebay. The drive arrived in a non-crinkled anti-static bag with a orange sticker that had not been tampered with. Not sure if it is actually unused and "new", but appears to be so. It definitely works much faster than the old drive meaning it isn't having read errors or any thing during use. Also, the computer doesn't seem to be showing any signs of hardware failure. It functions perfectly normal until the new drive is put in as a primary drive and then boot from. Put the drive as secondary and boot from the primary and all seems well again. So it's obviously something with the drive. but what? The drive seems to function COMPLETELY normally in linux and windows (when it is not a boot drive). Loader files in the root are exactly (to the byte) the same size old to new. and the boot.ini's are identical. Also, with a fixmbr and fixboot, theoretically even there boot sectors are identical. 

Start by eliminating some simple things. First, get a baseline for temperatures while doing CPU intensive tasks. Make sure they do not spike to high. Then, for maintenance, blow out your computer if it is dusty. Heat can cause elusive errors like memory errors, HDD errors, and lockups that could have you chasing a ghost (been there, done that)! Re check temperatures just for your information. Then test the HDD and fix errors, also run surface scan and fix errors. Test for memory errors overnight, just as a quick check before moving on. Finally, you might try to reload the OS to eliminate software issues if you haven't done so already (just install a fresh copy on an available partition or another HDD). If it still has issues, then you need to move on to the next stage of troubleshooting where you (1) can reproduce the problem, then (2) make hardware changes and test and measure between EVERY hardware change to isolate the faulty hardware. 

The PCIe lanes are not used for processing, only for data transfer meaning while bandwith might be correlated to graphics performance, they are not directly related. Half the bandwidth may NOT mean half the performance. Both boards are using the same chipset with only 8 PCIe lanes through the chipset. Intel Z97 Express Chipset - ark.intel.com/products/82012/Intel-DH82Z97-PCH. This means that access to CPU processing power and memory is the same on both boards which would affect GPU performance, but at an ukown amount. Performance will also vary with application; that is what software you are using, and how the software uses the GPU, CPU, memory, etc. will affect real world performance And finally, SLI and Crossfire add there own variables in that some applications do not take full advantage of both GPUs like on would hope hampering performance. Again, this is both application specific and hardware specific.