I have a fresh install on Windows XP, Firefox, and Flash player. I have installed all possible Windows XP SP3 updates. Every time I watch a video on youtube, it plays for 1 minute, and then stops. no loading icon appears, I cant rewind it to random location: whole player is frozen. Reloading the webpage helps sometimes but on some video I couldnt make it work at all once it was frozen. The weird thing is, youtube and everything worked flawlessly the day before, when I had my old Windows XP installation. The only difference between my new and old setup is that I have moved program files folder to another drive (from registry). Also, my Windows partition has only 5gigs free space now. (15gigs before), and I cant really make it use less space, at least I dont know how. I tried to move (as usual) the paging file to another drive, to save some space, but the Windows partition just keeps using more space every day, (i think it added 3gigs there today), how could I stop it? Could those be the problem? 

I dont own an "USB Root Hub" at all. I dont have any USB devices except mouse and keyboard connected, and 2 adapter cables that doesn't have any electronics in them, just cables. My mouse and keyboard are working fine. 

I know how to modify them, but there is no option to delete them, I can only replace them with another key combination, but I dont want to put some magical key combination to all possible functions, so when I accidentally press that combination, my computer explodes. How do I disable all these keyboard shortcuts? I am willing to do hex-editing to destroy the program from bottom level to just get rid of this feature, but I dont know which offset to edit, so, if anyone has figured those out, please tell me. Firefox version: 12.0 OS: Windows XP SP3 

I have problem sorting videos in VLC because it is using the metadata title to sort them, but they all have the same title. Which is why I want to remove all metadata, especially titles. How can I achieve this easiest and safest? I have over 2000 video files to process and I dont want to break them in the process. The video files are in format .avi, .mp4, .mkv, .wmv, and more. 

I'm trying to figure which artist it really is. Tried googling/google translate, but couldn't find the artist/title in english. Although, one page showed the name "Wagner" in there, but I listened many of his songs but didn't find it. How can I decode it into readable format; in that language it was written in (using unicode perhaps?), so i can use google translate to translate it? Or do i actually need to know the language before doing so?. 

Problem: I copy a text from a website, paste it on email or forum, and scream for the insanely large font it creates. Then I instantly go to notepad and re-paste, re-copy and again re-paste it to get rid of the styling. Is there a solution for this annoyance and pasteing delay, which doesn't require me to use different buttons for paste? Note: this should work on any program, not just on a browser. I have no idea why would I ever want to use this feature, unless I copy text between word documents, which I do extremely rarely. Perhaps the best solution would be a program that removes the styling after new textual data was added to clipboard. 

I want to disable ClearType fonts rendering from all programs, including Firefox and any other random program I might be using that uses this feature. This does not help me (in fact its already set to standard for me): 

Tried to figure out this myself, and this was the one I got working for Windows: In VLC 2.2.4: Tools -> Preferences -> Video -> Display: Output: Windows GDI video output (dropdown list) 

There is some nasty video viewer that has volume around 10000% higher than normally, so visiting those webpages is very nasty experience to my delicate ears, especially when those videos start automatically after page has been loaded. How can I control the specific flash application on that website, to turn its volume down to something I can bear with? I have tried some plugins before to completely mute the flash players, but they never worked. Only solution I have found even remotely working, is to go to volume control on Windows and adjust the volume of Firefox program. But that will control all the webpages at same time, which isnt really a problem for me though. It would be enough if it adjusted the volume each time such a flash application is found on a webpage, and then revert back to original volume after the tab or page has been closed. OS: Windows 7 Browser: Firefox newest 

I have noticed dozens of times how tedious some websites are. Therefore, I need a program, plugin for Firefox, or whatever that does the job - to be able to add some sort of checks to specific websites. For example, the program could search for a regexp pattern, and then do an action according to it. For example if I find some language from the wikipedia page, I would like to move or copy it on top of that languages list. The action wouldn't necessarily have to be applied on the regexp it found: it could issue another regexp search, and if it's found, it would do the actions I want, such as delete a block of other piece of HTML, move it, or copy it to another location. 

My new harddrive is larger than 2TB, and for some reasons I have to convert it to GPT disk so I can use all the space. How can I convert my WD Red 3TB into GPT disk so I can use all its capacity? I tried the commandline feature (diskpart), but it said it cannot convert it to GPT format. I am using Windows XP SP3 32bit. 

I would like to add some special characters to my keyboard, without replacing already existing key assignments. I thought of adding such letters as: , , , , , and . So I could get mark by pressing for example What program should I get for this? Something that doesnt mess up my keyboard; just gives me the ability to add new key combinations. 

Do I have a virus or what is this bug about? What part of my computer is failing? I have been getting this warning every now and then since a month or so: 

I have got this problem at the past week: All of sudden my Firefox window freezes, I can see some website elements not loading (images etc), and then when I close Firefox (after minute of struggling), and try to start it again, it gives weird error messages like: "not enough resources" or "not valid Win32 program" or "application failed to initialize" or something. I can't launch any program after that, not even CTRL+ALT+DEL, but if I open the taskmanager beforehand, it stays open correctly, so it only fails to start new programs. I am pretty sure this is because of Avast! Also, my Windows windowses start to lose their icons and those error message pop-ups get really wide even though text isn't that wide, and the title isn't always visible, or the text. Furthermore, I have noticed that every day (at past week) I start my computer, I get this Avast! window requiring me to finish the upgrade, I click OK every time but next day it comes back, even if I didnt upgrade anything. Maybe because I didn't click "install google chrome" ? Is that yet another dirty trick trying to force people to generate money for them? Anyone had similar problems? I have latest Avast! currently (updated again today), and latest Firefox. I have got Windows XP SP3 (which does not have newest updates, around half a year old updates). 

Is there anything wrong? My RAM should be 800Mhz, but it only runs with 400Mhz for some reason, thats why I thought it is incompatible and which why the frequency changes frequently. 

At least on Windows XP that combination opened the Task Manager directly, without any delay. I want to see the Task Manager when I press CTRL+ALT+DEL, and not that useless window which I never use anyway. How can I change this behaviour? PS. I know CTRL+SHIFT+ESC opens Task Manager too, but I dont like it. (harder to use, and also because I have used the other method for ~20 years now). 

Looks like I fixed this problem on my own, in accident; simply by going to Windows 7 sound settings. This will not require any additional programs to work! Step 1: Right click speaker icon 

There are some annoying websites which use custom (badly made) cursors, right click disable/popup JS, etc. How can I easily undo their settings without specifically finding this piece of JS on their JS files, and instead somehow tell my browser to enable for example the right click again? I know Stylish probably could do that, but it requires me to update the files every time the website changes their files? Edit: My Firefox version is 21.0. 

It starts from 192.168.0.2 and loops to 192.168.0.255, then starts it all over again, endlessly. Is this normal? Or my router just got crazy? 

Any idea how to fix this? Or perhaps could there somewhere be a complete guide, which displays every each screen one by one, so I could control the installation by pressing the correct buttons at correct times, without seeing anything? Googling didn't return much. Why I am doing this: I want to play an old game, but it keeps crashing on my Windows XP at random times. I tried DOSbox as well but the problem remains, so I thought of using the real deal instead. I think it did work on Win98SE before, not sure (it's the only CD I have). Perhaps a DOS installation would be best, but I dont know where to get just that, and not sure if Virtualbox can install it. Note: I have already tried the Windows XP compatibility options in the .exe file, but it does not prevent the random crashing. I am running Virtualbox from Windows XP SP3 32bit (year old updates) 

I noticed this error while scanning the file "install_flashplayer11x32au_mssd_aaa_aih.exe": "SOME FILES COULD NOT BE SCANNED" And then I looked through the .exe file with 7zip and saw that the package is indeed password protected, thus I am unable to open any files in it. Why is this, are they trying to ship a virus to my computer by preventing my virus scanner from scanning the package?