Updating to Windows 8 Pro on my PC consumed an additional 20 Gb or so and I'd like them back. How do I recover the space used by the installer / updater? 

Obviously you can name the stream whatever you like and use any available app on your red5 server; I used "live" which is a default app. If your vbrick stream doesn't have audio, use this command instead: 

How do I use the built-in DLNA server in Windows 8 to replace something like TVersity? I pose this question with multiple parts: 

I see people promoting SUPER quite often and I'm not sure why, when options such as Miro or plain old FFmpeg are available? 

I have found that this is totally possible and supported in the release version of windows 8, however I found it way too limited (doesnt play mkv etc...) and have since purchased TVersity; it works very well. 

For Group (conversations) that are not in my Contacts, how would I get a list of them in Skype? The only way that I've seen so far to know which of these conversations I'm in, is when someone types a message in the Group; this can be a bit unnerving when you are no longer involved in the conversation. I am using Skype version 6.1.0.129 on Windows 8 I want a list of "Groups" that I am a member of, which have not been added to my Contact list or Favorites. I am looking to remove myself from these groups, but I cannot access them. 

First of all, this is only for the release version of Windows 8, not the beta, not RT nor any other version. If disabling the "Bing" subsystem is not possible then maybe there is a removal process? Either way I want it to stop interfering with everything I do with and on Google. 

What is the best way using a windows server (as the source) to provide an easy to access listing of available videos for use by DLNA enabled television sets (specifically Samsung)? I've created folders for each show and season but my TV or Windows 8 itself is displaying options such as "Genre and Rating"; I have no idea where its looking for this metadata. 

After so many dead batteries or those that only hold a charge for 30 mins or less, I have started unplugging my laptops and netbooks once they are fully charged. This has produced a lot better result than leaving them plugged in. I have found that especially in the case of Apple devices this can make the difference in having a usable MacBook Pro and one that must stay plugged in at all times. Lastly, some of the recent VAIO's have had their batteries recalled so you may want to see if you're on the list. 

It is very possible. If you can consume / view the rtmp stream originating from the vbrick, you can send it to Red5 using ffmpeg using this command: 

But that doesnt work because nextScreen becomes an argument to shiftNextScreen, which doesn't make sense. I dont know haskell at all. 

and pressing j in insert mode gives a delay determined by my timeoutlen, not my ttimeoutlen. What am i doing wrong? Is it even possible? Is it only possible for escape sequences? If so why? Thank you! 

When i compose a message with mutt, mutt first asks me if i would like to recall a postponed messsage. I do not want mutt to ask me this. Can i tell mutt to skip this step and get straight to the composing? 

I turned off my comp, woke up, turned it back on and now it seems to work.... Also i changed the above code to: 

I had this set last night and it didnt work so i dont know what the 'nights rest' did... Anyways, to all that use jk or any other alphabet sequence to escape from insert mode, i recommend doing this. 

Suppose i'm in vim editing the file ~/hello.txt I would like to send this files as an attachment with mutt from vim using some terminal command. What does such a command look like? 

Sometimes, for instance, when i have a terminal and firefox open in the same workspace, and then i close the terminal, firefox will not tile properly, that is it won't take up the full screen, it will just remain taking only half the screen. Is there a way to reload the window to make it tile properly or do i have to close and reopen each time? 

Does anyone know if its possible to have a different set of keybinds for different layouts. For instance, in Tall mode, i would like h and l to switch between the master and stack, with k and l moving up and down the stack. Then in Mirror Tall mode, i would like the operations switched, k,l switching between master and stack with h and l moving left and right through the stack. Obivously im trying to emulate vim-like movement. Thank you! 

I recently came across the timeout and ttimeout features in vim. I use the key sequence jk to escape from insert to normal mode. I thought, following this article Mapping fast keycodes [see 2b], that i could have my jk seqence obey the ttimeoutlen while all my other mappings obey timeoutlen. This would be ideal because i can hit jk really fast when i want to so it wouldnt interupt my typing when i need to insert a jk into a document. However, following the above mentioned article, it didnt work for me. I went 

I'm using the EZConfig module for Xmonad. I would like to bind to first move my current focused window to my other screen, then move my focus to my other screen. Using the CycleWS module this would be achieved by running "shiftNextScreen" followed by "nextScreen" Can i bind two commands to one key? Also, i tried going 

Delete the /var/www/index.html (where there is the redirect advice for the browser) AND clear browser cache/use another browser (I checked it with iPad and found that Chrome used the cache, where there was the page with redirect advice [http 302]). 

If I mount a time capsule disk (or another AFP, SMB network resource) and look on it with it appears as , so rsync can't access it (even with sudo). How to mount a network resource different than (e.g. )? I'm on OSX (but I would like to know how to reach it generally on unix systems) 

So I cannot get the system running. What is the problem and what did I wrong when tried to resize the lvm partitions? It is just unmount, resize and mount back again, isn't it? Is it possible to recover the partition or at least to create a new and get the system running back, or does it require some special operations to create a new home partition? 

it doesn't tell an error, but growlnotify's message is empty, so didn't work. but if I execute from bash manually it works a s planned. 

I'm trying to ping a VM from KVM Host over the bridge (maybe this informations is redundant). And there is no response to the ping, not even or What does it mean? Update: 

I have a dedicated server. I could only install a Debian. It was installed as hidden automated process. I would like now to use LVM and actually partition whole disk with another scheme. Is it possible and a good idea to do it in already installed Debian or is it better to install a new Debian with a debootstrap and then make LVM and partitions? The problem with debootstrap is - all the tutorials saying that I need to partition the disk with new scheme (so is it possible to do it from already installed Debian on that disk?) 

How to prevent it from sending arp behind my router (a.b.c.133)? So that a.b.c.129 would be accessible only over IP level 3, not like a subnet? Update: The network structure: 

The GW is a.b.c.133 (which is in the /27 network with its gateway a.b.c.129) I statically added an arp route: 

So the $URL$ is forwarded to $URL$ Other subdomains are not configured. But somehow $URL$ and $URL$ are redirected to $URL$ and $URL$ $URL$ are not redirected. Why it looks like there are no server_name setting in nginx config? I would like to have many subdomains on my nginx server 

But as I saw the didn't expanded if looking with . I thought the reboot will solve the problem. Then I tried to mount the home partition back: 

How to prevent the hosts behind from sending arp to the , but using the routing instead? So that a.b.c.129 would be accessible only over IP level 3, not directly? So how to isolate the second, third ... hosts from sending arp to the? Update 2: I have the following in the :