However the video runs way faster than the audio. After a couple of minutes the audio (recorded by microphone) lags several seconds behind the video. I tried to record the audio on the Windows Host with audacity in parallel and the audio from audacity and the audio captured by ffmpeg in the VM seem to be in sync. Just the video runs to fast. What is the reason for this? Could it have to do VMware? Are there any settings that I can tweak? Are there ffmpeg options I could use for syncing? E.g. if I could force ffmpeg to drop or duplicate frames if audio/video is not in sync that would be totally OK for me, but as far as I understand the manual for ffmpeg's -vsync option, this is already the default. I compiled ffmpeg myself following the Ubuntu Compilation Guide and I got the idea to use ffmpeg from here. EDIT: ffmpeg output as requested: 

I played around a little more and I noticed that if the output file already exists ffmpeg asks me if I would like to override the file. In this case the audio stream already contains things I said while the overwrite file question exists. The video however does not start before I confirmed file overwrite and thus the audio naturally lags behind the video quite a lot. But that is easy to deal with. Just don't overwrite existing files. I don't really care about the format I end up with as long as the video has some lossless format and I can edit it with Adobe Premiere (it does not support mkv). EDIT2: I got a little closer to the problem. When looking very closely at the resulting video stream, it is sometimes noticeable that a couple of frames are missing. May because I opened a window in just this moment which causes video compression to consume more CPU (because many pixels changed) or the like. Maybe there are some buffers I can assign to ffmpeg to speed up processing in such moments? After all my machine has 32GB RAM, it should be good for something... Or are there any other lossless codecs I could use or...? Next time i'll also try ro set a higher CPU priority for ffmpeg. 

As a base I started with the configuration of TFTP-PXE-Boot-Server. But now I also want to boot SystemRescueCD (version 2017-06-11) with using PXE. I downloaded the ISO image and then on the TFTP-Server mounted the ISO as . Following directions found in the manual for PXE@sysresccd I added to my menu this: 

OK, I got it. I created my own script iptables-common that contains just some static iptables rules. Deleting that script solved the problem. Although I am confused that this was never before a problem. Maybe because tomcat adds iptable rules... 

As you can see the got expanded to a number of arguments. This works if your curly braces occur within a string as well: 

Ok, since you have specified that none of this works, I would assume it is a virus/malware/adware on your computer that is hidden onto your computer either in temporary folders or inside ProgramData (Most probable). I would recommend scanning your computer with Malwarebytes and to remove all suspicious files that is finds. After that restart you computer and run the rootkit removal tool, TDSSKiller. Restart your computer once again and re-run both of the software again to double check all of the traces have been removed. Let me know how it works out. Let me know how it went and what you found out to be that cause or if you still need more help. 

Control Panel > System and Security > Action Center On the left hand corner, click Change User Account Control settings. Drag the slider to Never notify (all the way at the bottom). 

Browsing Sync Service First off and the easiest way to retrieve your favorites is if you have a data sync service like a Google Account with Google Chrome. You can simply login to your Google Account and sync your favorites. If not, there are still other ways. 

Start Chrome and Open the Chrome Menu Go to Settings > Extensions (On the left hand side) Delete all of the extensions that you haven't installed by pressing the trash button on the right. 

This path is the default given that you have Python 2.7 installed and you didn't change the installation directory of pip. Make sure there is no space before or after this or any other variable. Make sure you add a semicolon before this new PATH if it is not already there. 

So, If you did not format your hard drive and it has not been 28 days since you have installed Windows 8.1, you're in luck. You can simply go ahead and use the automatic diagnostic tool (provided in the link) which will retrieve your personal data and put it back in place. If you don't want that, you can go ahead and recover the bookmarks manually. Every browser works differently in terms of bookmark saving location and importing options so I'll list the three most popular Windows browsers and how to recover each of their bookmarks. Google Chrome 

Basically the first part of the line points to the exe (either the uninstaller or the program itself - depending on the program itself) or the msi file. then uses the switch /uninstall. This is where the research comes in since the every program has a different format syntax and switch. The easiest and by far the fastest way would be if you install Revo Uninstaller. This is a great free software that helps removing all traces of any and all programs installed on your computer. It works much better than the built-in windows programs and feature and it keeps tracks of all files that a program installs so you have the piece of mind when removing software. 

Now mkdir accepts a number of arguments and will create a directory for each one. Thus you get what you asked for if you use rather then . 

Yet another tool: $URL$ Advantages: Platform independent (Java), small (10KB). Disclaimer: I am the author 

The menu item shows up in the menu and when I select it then at first everything looks fine. But during the book, when it tries to download the sysrcd.dat, the download is very slow and when it reaches 7%, then the download stalls and then restarts and it does so in endless loops. What is wrong? I don't want to start yet another service (like NFS). 

The other answers so far give you enough to do about this concrete situation. However it should be noted that you have noticed a situation that may be an attempt to invade your private data. There are other situations when this kind of attack is less detectable. E.g. if your neighbour knows your Wifi-Password, which you could have told them when they kindly asked, because they were new in the house and there own uplink was not ready yet. But worst of all: If you are on an unencrypted Wifi (or one where the password is commonly known) such has Hotel or Airport Wifi, these attacks will be very hard to detect, because the attacker can set up the wifi with EXACTLY the same settings (same password and same SSID) and your devices will automatically connect to the strongest signal and never tell you that it made a choice. The only option to actually stay safe is to encrypt ALL your traffic. Never enter your password, emailaddress, credit card number or any other information on a website that is not SSL/TLS encrypted. Consider downloads from unencrypted websites as compromised (malware could have been injected). Before entering/downloading data on an encrypted website, check that you are on the right domain (google.com, not giigle.com. SSL will not help if you are on a domain you do not want to talk to). Install HTTPS-Everywhere or the like Also remember that there are other services than your webbrowser that might transmit data, such as an IMAP email client. Make sure it also only operates on encrypted connections. Nowadays, there is hardly any reason not encrypt all your traffic, nevertheless some developers are just to lazy etc. If you need to use some application that does not support SSL or a similar security measure, then use a VPN. Note that the VPN provider will then still be able to read all your traffic which is not encrypted in addition to the encryption that the VPN provides. 

I created some screencasts with ffmpeg. The PC I use has capable hardware (Intel Core i7-4930K Six Core 3.40GHz 12MB Cache, 32 GB RAM), but unfortunately it runs Windows 7. Because I want to do my screencast on Linux I installed Kubuntu in VMware. I assigned 4 CPU cores and 4 GB RAM to the VM. I record my screencast with the following command: 

Try and change the Power Option settings for the "When I close the Lid:" to Do Nothing under the Plugged in Category. 

This is pretty simple to do using the Command Line Utility. You don't have to download any software or anything at all for that matter. You basically have to clean, create partition, make it active, format it (make sure you don't have any important data, as it will be deleted), and assign it. Just follow this guide step by step here. 

This should work 100% of the time. If it doesn't, you may have got malicious content on your anti-malware bytes. EDIT: This is an issue with you not being recognized as an admin. You need to confirm your account is listed in the Administrators group. You can do this by following these steps. 

The network admins for your organization should know what group they need to add you in. By the sound of it, would most likely be the group that you need to be added into but you can be added to any of those groups to get access (I doubt they would add you to the Administrators group though). Once added to the group, you should be able to easily view the . 

you should be able to technically see the uninstall button. If you don't find the string than the program's registry was edited and the uninstall string doesn't exists. This could be caused by malicious content or as a result of program not being installed properly. IT could also be that you're not logged into to the admin account or the account that installed those applications. Most of the icons for the programs are not shown so my best guess would be that they have been uninstalled improperly. Solution You can either find each program's msi, exe and uninstall it using the proper switch but this option will take lots of time and research for each program that you would like to uninstall. For example to uninstall uTorrent, you would either create a batch file or open up a command prompt screen and paste this line: 

UAC could be an issue here. Or it you didn't install the software from this account, it could be that you are not the "owner" of this software. Try disabling UAC by going to Action Center and changing the user account control settings to never notify. 

Open Device Manager Expand the Network adapters Right click on the adapter and click properties. Open the Details tab. Change the Property dropdown to Hardware Ids Note the VEN_XXXX, X is the 4 digit hexadecimal value for the vendor's ID. Match the ID below to find what brand your network adapter is. 

If that doesn't work, also try removing/uninstalling these features if you installed them through the MB CD: 

Test and see if the problem persists. If it does, you can try deleting your user profile. Follow this simple guide from the Google support page.