N.B: See my comment about more details. If all devices support static routes then yes, that is one way you can achieve this. For example, if we assign the IP subnet 192.168.0.0/30 for the new layer 2 link between Firewall A and Firewall Z, the interface on FWA facing FWZ can be assigned IP address 192.168.0.1/30 and the interface on FWZ facing FWA can be assigned IP address 192.168.0.2/30. If FWZ has a second interface in the same subnet as the server (let’s say its 192.168.1.0/24, the FWZ interface is 192.168.1.254 and the server is 192.168.1.10); then on FWA you can configure a static route that points to 192.168.1.0/24 with the next hop address as 192.168.0.2. If you are connecting to the server from a subnet behind FWA (let’s say FWA has an interface in a LAN range at Location A which is 192.168.2.0/24), then you will also need a static route on FWZ that points to the subnet 192.168.2.0/24 via the next hop gateway address of 192.168.0.1. This is so that return traffic from subnet can route back to that LAN behind FWA. 

I am trying to recover a root password on an MX80 but I'm receiving some errors and have no idea what they mean (it's not live so suggestive "disruptive" steps is acceptable); The steps I have taken are as follows; 

In the lab I have some 7206VXRs (and 7301s, but lets concentrate on 7206 for now) which are acting as PE routers. I wish to test some basic QoS policies on these for customer facing VoIP services. On the 7206VXR (with NPE-G1) for example I have two kinds of customers that need QoS'ing; PPP (ADSL) users received over L2TP via a wholesale provider and Ethernet customers. PPP users are terminated on Virtual-Interfaces, and I can apply QoS policies to them by adding an AV pair to their RADIUS profiles (). No problems there. For Ethernet subscribers, they are terminated on separate sub-interfaces as VLANs, and I can apply QoS on the sub-interfaces as follows; 

Preface; In the below topology R1 and R6 are PEs, all others are P routers, all routers are running c7200-jk9s-mz.124-13b.bin. At this point IGP is fully converged (OSPF with all interfaces in area 0 for simplicity) and MPLS is enabled on all interfaces using LDP. No BGP configuration exists at this point. 

The MX80 is running JunOS 11.4R1.14. I have rebooted and the password hasn't been reset. Should I try again, or is something wrong with this router which I should address first? I don't want to damage anything. UPDATE As an update to this; Today I booted into recovery mode again and did nothing, I was on the phone with the router sitting at the "root>". Whilst on the phone for a few minutes the router suddenly had a panic; 

On a Cisco IOS device the command logs most information to the routers memory (obviously you can change that to or as required). When connected to the router via telnet or SSH I can execute the command () to have these events displayed in my session live as they are happening. When connected via the console this happens automatically. How can I achieve the same effect on JunOS; When I am adding IGP/EGB neighbors for example, I'd like to see the new adjacencies coming up rather than constantly looking through the logs. 

The upstream has a looking glass on which I can see that when performing something akin to "show ip bgp prefix/mask" they are only seeing one AS in the path to this route (and all routes advertised). I changed the policy-statement as follows; 

@Machinarius, @Brett Lykins has pretty much answered your question but without mentioning any techniques specifically. If you wanted some further clarification then two main techniques very commonly used are shaping and policing depending on the service being contracted and the customer requirements. You will read about these in the links provided by @Brett Lykins. To give you a simple practical example, let’s say our example customer takes a 10Mbps connection but the physical link can run at 100Mbps. When using shaping, if the customer traffic tries to exceed 10Mbps, traffic starts to be queued up in a buffer (assume an infinite buffer size) and slowly let out at a rate no faster than 10Mbps. So what this means is that the customer doesn’t have any packet loss but their latency/RTT will increase because they are trying to send more traffic than they have been given, so it’s being queued up. Protocols like TCP will slow down the transmission speed as ACKs take longer to be send/received when traffic is being buffered without packet loss. However devices don’t have infinite amounts of RAM so there will be a point where even with shaping packet loss will occur because the buffers become full. If you read through the links @Brett Lykins provided you will see that traffic can be classified and marked, then processed in accordance with a QoS policy such that “important” traffic coming in is less likely to be dropped than less important traffic when congestion occurs. Policing or “rate-limiting” is just a case of setting a hard 10Mbps limit on the connection, if the traffic passing through tries to exceed this hard limit that then packets will be dropped according to whatever algorithm is in use as as WRED/RED/Tail-drop. As above, when using policing one could set up multiple queues and split the 10Mbps allowance across different traffic priorities etc. The main difference to note is that policing is generally a hard limit while shaping will try to buffer traffic at the expense of RTT. 

Etherate enables you to test QoS down to layer 2 directly over Ethernet. Using it you can generate layer 2 Ethernet traffic in a controlled manner which you can measure. You can specify traffic flow duration, frame size, bits per second / bytes per second, total bytes to transfer, ethertype, VLAN ID, and PCP value. You can also ACK the layer 2 frames if you want to test loss down at layer 2. When the test is complete the Rx host displays a count of test frames received, non-test frames received, test frames received in order and test frames received out of order (early or late). You should be able to get some helpful information from all of that! $URL$ 

How can I configured MPLS-TE FRR on IOS using tunnels with dynamic paths (Is this even possible, I think it might be IOS-XR only)? 

No such thing; Time must pass for possible events to become actualities. You need to re-think this to an "acceptable" level of delay. Also in another comment you said; 

Looking on the 7206 ISIS sees the MX80 as that Link-Local address for it's IPv6 address, which ties in with the above output, but why? ; 

There is no default dscp value assigned do a HTTP connection by a web browser or web server when connections are initiated by either. 

It is obviously advised to pull out the backup one, as you runs these in a "master/backup" scenario, with the "master" syncing CEF adjacencies, RIB updates, TCAM entries etc, to the "backup". So removing the "backup" SUP typically has no effect. Removing the "master" SUP should have no effect if you have things like Nonstop Forwarding and Stateful Switchover configured, if not, your results will vary depending on your set up. 

Will lowering the carrier-delay on an interface configuration interfere with using BFD on the same interface? If I configure on an Ethernet interface the RIB is automatically notified of the physical link down event. In a scenario where the physical link doesn't go down but communications are not traversing the link (3rd party DWDM lamda for example) BFD would detect this. Are there dangers to using a low carrier delay value with BFD, or is it recommended? Or will one simply superseed the other from a configuration perspective? I would be using them in conjunction with interaface dampening and in global configuration. 

Answer: It isn't. The closest we can get to this is that many providers use GPS for NTP stratum 1 sources. Since many providers are moving to VoIP we do emulate TDM circuts over IP to interconnect with the PSTN and comply with standards, and codecs rely on this. Everyone is keeping their own time though, if you understand my meaning. I have worked with various networks that have poor time keeping; Due to humans being lazy and prone to mistakes the concept of the telephone network being isochronous is in fact almost imposible. I have encountered on several occasions other SIP carriers when tourbleshooting issues between us they are running packet captures are specific times of day and missing the VoIP traffic we want to capture and test or measure because their clocks on their gateways aren't accurate! Maybe this was true 50 years ago (although I failt to see how?) but it certainly is not true today, especially with the rise of VoIP where everyone has their own timing mechanisms (I'm thinking NTP sources as I write that). 

What are the correct usage guidelines for SI and IEC binary prefixes when using decimal (power of 10) units of measurement relating to computer networking and binary (power of 2) units of measurement (data transfer in particular, but also file size) ? This Wiki page gives a detailed description of the problem and different solutions. I find that Wiki paged linked above a bit confusing. I always use the SI (decimal) units for data throughput and IEC values (binary prefixes of 2^) for file sizes. From time to time however, I do see people calculating speed using a multiple of in their sums. I have always used multiples of 1000 for speed measurement, such as 1Kbps = 1000Bps;