OK, I figured out a way to do it. I'm not claiming it as an elegant solution, and there may well be better options. This solution would also have problems, if you wanted to do other things like write your own code and execute it via panel applet. So its good enough, for right now, but could likely be improved. First, right click on the panel, and select "Panel Preferences". Then, select the Panel Applets Tab, and click the Add Button. Next, Select "Application Launch bar" and click add. 

what am I doing wrong? Have tried rebooting, the camera and the Pi. how can I set a static network between these devices using only an Ethernet cable? 

Use wget, and download something. You'll see different rates as it downloads, and get a time, an a file-size from which you can calculate average. $URL$ 

Is there a graphical connect to server option in PCMan? I want to drag and drop files into a server, as opposed to giving scp commands for file transfer. perhaps I'm spoiled by using nautilus and caja. From Ubuntu: Something like this: 

I wrote a program in C++, using wiring pi for the LED, trigger, ad openCV3.2 for the camera. It works, taking a photo, when the button is pressed, but the photo quality is low, even in a well lit room. I think this is because the exposure time is too short. How can I increase the exposure time, to produce higher quality images? here is my source, from the function that needs help: 

I am writing GPIO functions in C using standard libraries that come with the raspberry pi, and do not require installing other libraries such as wiringpi. So I have been using stdlib.h and stdio.h, and writing, and reading the files that describe each GPIO pin using the sysfs interface. I'm just wondering if there are any other standard library interfaces for the raspberry pi i should know about. 

In the older version of Raspberry pi, the mollex connector for the SD card has a switch at the base of the connector. If you read about it, this is called a write protect switch, that attempts to disable IO write if the SD card is becoming dislodged. That functionality was never built into the original Raspberry Pi model. Is it hooked up in the new version of the Raspberry PI? 

I used zoneminder several years ago. I may be wrong, but it seemed like a dead project. a simple alternative with active support which I know works quite well on a raspberry pi is "motion". 

The program output is persistently "ADC result 0" I have an exact copy of the analog circuit, and I am using the MCP3008 ADC converter. I have tried installing python-dev, and I have the spi module according to this command: 

SPI is enabled according to the raspberry pi con fig. I have checked all the connections, and read all the available help on this page. I have run an SPI debugger linking MISO and MOSI and as described here: $URL$ and got this output: 

I have a raspberry pi B v1.1, with raspbian. I am using GPIO pins 4,17,27, to illuminate an RGB LED. My problem is that GPIO Pin 4 flashes randomly. Ok, not exactly randomly, it seems to flash briefly once every 10 seconds. Even when my program is running, or when my program is off. The flashing, makes the color change, when it should not. I don't recall setting a start up script, or anything else to use that pin. Im not sure why it is flashing. Here is my source code: 

Go get yourself a LM7805 (+5V DC regulator) Then read through this datasheet: $URL$ and then scroll down to page 18, and look at Fig 6. Add higher valued capacitor(s) on C1, to prevent hysteresis, and (or) various parallel capacitors to C2, to filter out noise. then read the rest of the application notes for fun. You can also put the Voltage regulators in parallel for increased current (max per package type TO-220 = 1A) yes, you could put a heat sink on that.. Alternatively, 3A (and up) power voltage regulators also exist. such as: LM350 $URL$ A word of advice: if you are powering something at 3 amps and you control circuit can only handle .75A (the PI), Isolate the power between the pi and the higher current sources to protect the PI from higher currents. with an LM7805, you would be good to 35V. Alternatively to heat-sinks (or in conjunction with) you may also try outputting PWM power at what ever frequency provides adequate stability in your circuit. The non-constant power output will produce less power and heat over time. 

This image is from another OpenCV program, that streams Video. The image becomes saturated as I expect, because the camera is on for a longer period of time. This is a side effect of the video streaming continuously. What I want to do is control it. 

Raspbian, with kernel 4.4.38, and pixel desktop fails to take screen shot when I press the Print screen button. I don't know what the normal key-binding for the print-screen button is. in other Desktop environments, I might call a screenshot applet (like gnome-screenshot, or mate-screenshot) when pressing the screen-shot button, but i do not know what the name of that application would be in pixel. Does pixel have a default screen-shot application? 

The way modern PCs shutdown is to start a series of events when "The power button" is pressed, that in turn initiates a soft shutdown, initiated by the kernel. pressing the run key does not do this, any reading and or writing, of eeproms, or disks, is halted, without closing, or completion, any may cause problems there after. 

I am reading the Python documentation, and learning python. I am on chapter 4.7.5. Lambda Expressions. I am having a tough time understanding how lambda functions are any different than any other function I might write. Can someone break down what lambda functions are in python for me? Like into newb laymens-terms? 

can the raspberry pi 2 automatically setup crossover Ethernet connections? I have a webserver with a networked web camera. The camera is behind a router, and the server is on the raspberry pi. I would like to move the camera into my car, and directly attach the camera to the raspberry pi via an Ethernet cable. But I only have patch cables on hand. Cant the raspberry pi handle that type of connection, and set it up to cross over, and work properly, automatically? 

I am using Raspbian Jessie, kernel 4.4, and the pixel Desktop. when I try to set pcmanfm up as the file-system manager, the option in the "Customize" section of "Panel preferences" the selection stays blank. How can I set pcmanfm to be my default package manager? 

Does the Raspberry PI use SDIO mode during its operation (at all)? Im working on a ghosting capability device... Like clone on command without having to move any hardware. 

Other Caveats: The listing in "Panel Preferences" will all say "Application Launch Bar" and I see no way to differentiate between them, short of clicking up or down, to move a selected launcher around. 

I've never used or installed swift, my answer is based on the error message provided. if you have g++, and libstdc++ installed, then prehaps try placing a link to the location of those files in the place where swift is looking for them. I would use the locate command, but I also realize some Raspi distros omit the locate command (madness), if you dont have it, install that too. $sudo locate libstdc++ I would expect it to be in /usr/lib/gcc some place. once you locate the librarys you need, check the paths against what swift expects. if swift is looking in the wrong place, make a symlink to the correct location with . 

I have raspbian, with the pixel desktop. I can add panel applets by going to panel preferences, but they always go to the far right. I want the panel applets next to the Raspberry, on the far left. How do I do that? 

I have raspbian, with the pixel desktop. How can I add custom application launchers to the panel? Alternatively, how can I add Firefox, and terminal emulator to the panel? I tried dragging and dropping programs into the panel, but this doesn't work. I have searched all thought panel preferences. 

I'm in the insider program. I have my raspberry pi2. but there are several options for downloads. x86 vs 64 bit, cpu vs phone. but nothing says arm support. and all of them are 3GB + downloads. I chose x64 for phone, and hope that is right. Anyone know for sure? 

I have several sd micro SD cards that have a failed sector or two. But i don't see why i shouldn't be able to make a boot disk out of them. Unfortunately, dd fails when it encounters a bad sector, and ddrescue keeps trying for hours. In the end, I never get a bootable sd card. I want to know, is there any way to make a bootable sd card out of one which has a few failed sectors? 

Then, click "up" several times to get the "+" logo into the position you want, and click OK. Goto the Plus sign, and click on it. you now have a list of applications from the applications menu. select the application you would like to add, and click add. Then Click ok. I ended up with something like this: 

I have an IP camera that I want to connect to my raspberry pi 3 using an ether net cord. I have struggled with this reading many articles, trying to configure the camera to have a static IP recieved from a local dhcp server. At one point it was almost working... but not now (yeah it was my fault, I changed some stuff and now it doesnt work.) I have isc-dhcp-server installed. The camera is connected to the ethernet port via an Ethernet cable. I want to assign the camera, and the raspberry pi static addresses using ipv4. Here is my dhcp.conf: ddns-update-style none; 

The danger of any method of shutdown is that the system might be writing, or reading from memory, or disk, and not complete, making partial changes to the system that corrupt the disk, or system eeproms, if not properly completed. Electrical instability is also a concern, but assuming pressing the run pin button or physically removing the power doesn't create arching, or damaging voltage spikes, then neither should be particularly damaging to system hardware. Yanking the power is less preferable, in a practical sense. The raspberry pi lacks advanced noise filters, and protective circuits, but at least the run pin has a resistor, and regulated voltage. See this picture: 

it takes the photo, but the exposure time never changes. Here is an example of what I'm experiencing (both are taken without flash): This is the image quality after running my program: 

Directly connected. I actually just got it. I'm reluctant to say "figured it out." but I logged out, and looked at the other login session options. The greeter was set to EN_US.UTF-8 There were 3 options, "default", "OpenBox", and "LXDE". LXDE was what I was using by default, anyway, so I was curious why the default wasn't LXDE in the greeter menu. So I switched it, and logged in. then, I went to the LXDE language settings and saw that despite being English in the Default session, the LXDE session had them as GB. So I changed them in LXDE, and now both sessions are behaving as expected. I have no understanding why this happened. I want to note that prior to being fixed the environmental variable $LANG == en_US.UTF-8, I tried: , , reconfiguring the keyboard in X11 (as a last-ditch effort), editing /etc/default/keyboard, , with numerous shutdowns, reboots, to no avail. Somewhere, there must be a session variable for language, that I had been missing. I logged back into the default session, and suddenly, it is changed there too. This must be a glitch. I guess the answer might be apply the changes, logout and log back in.