Some versions of support a or flag to show the tree of relationships between processes. If your version doesn't have that, check for , a stand-alone package to do the same thing. It can help in cases like this. 

The utility runs under a very limited environment. This means that you have to spell things out in a way you would not if you were working interactively at the command line (e.g., rather than just ). It's also worth saying that Apple recommends over . (I actually use myself on Macs, but only because I'm used to it from Linux machines. I keep meaning to switch.) 

If you can see the "Hello world" post from the blog's front page, but you get a 404 error from WordPress when you click the link, then I wonder if it's a problem with WordPress's links structure. Have you changed the permalinks defaults? (If so, the blog itself will offer you a handy-dandy set of rules to put into a .htaccess file.) 

If it's because of accounting reasons as mentioned in the comments, you might want to look at the GNU Accounting Utilities. These will allow you to do everything upto and including seeing which users ran what process, for how long, and how much CPU and RAM they took. This does require kernel support, but most modern distros will have it compiled in already. 

You could use to tag each line, and then get your syslog server to filter to a different file based on that tag. (Edited to take out incorrect reference to flag) 

I've seen old Celerons handling 80-90Mb/s of normal traffic on a Debian/Quagga setup with 3 full feeds without even breaking a sweat. However, the qualifier there is "normal" traffic, mainly HTTP/SMTP and DNS. The same machines have fallen flat on their face during DDOS situations where the Packets Per Second went to ridiculous numbers of mainly UDP packets. It's normally not the bandwidth you normally need to be worried about, but the PPS you will be handling. Unfortunately, I can't help you on the Linux VS BSD for routing performance part of the question, but it shouldn't make any difference on current commodity hardware for a few 100Mb connections. 

I think that 2 is cleaner and better in the long run, but either should work fine. The issue with 1 is that if your work habits change, you will need to remember to remove that line, or it will drive you crazy every time you open a shell. 

LSB is Linux Standard Base. Take a look at the Debian wiki page that the warning recommended. There's lots of good information on it. 

If the problem is simply that you have to start every session in the terminal with this: , then I can think of two solutions. 

First, you would normally want to use or or to get root privileges for an X application. Second, why are you using on Debian? (I mean is even enabled? It's not by default on Debian, as opposed to Ubuntu or OS X.) Third, I can't think of any circumstance where you actually need to run a browser with root privileges. There are cases when you need a gui application as root - say, you want to edit a system file (/etc/network/interfaces for example), and you're most comfortable editing with . That's not an unreasonable thing to want to do. But you would want to use or a similar utility to transfer the privileges. 

Having some major problems with Server 2012 Essentials. Have setup remote access and installed RRAS console. I can connect to the VPN through SSTP or PPTP no problems. Authentication is fine (NAP is full access!), have checked RRAS, firewall (local and server) and removed and recreated the settings as well as repairing them. After all this, I cannot pass any traffic through the VPN, I've tried assigning IP through DHCP and static. I can't ping the IP address of the remote 2012 server through VPN, or anything else on the network. I've tried connecting from multiple different machines and OSs. If anyone could help me it would me much appreciated :) Thanks 

We are going to supply our engineers with Note3 phones (due to the fact these are some of the only devices that come with real stylus') so that they can take signatures on jobs etc. I'm grappling with the concept of having to setup individual Google accounts for each user. This is something I want to avoid. I've considered setting up one specific Google account to use on all phones but this seems like a security risk and a pain to manage (lesser so than individual accounts). I may want to install certain apps from the app store, and I would like to use the phone tracking and remote disable features. Is it worth setting up a Google apps account for this purpose? We already have Exchange happily working for the users and I don't really want to scrap our infrastructure just to switch over to Google. Running these phones without a google account somehow feels wrong, and I feel that I'm missing out. What other solutions have people set up to get round these problems, or did that find no problems without a google account? Thanks! 

To be honest, unless you are planning on compiling them all from scratch, monitoring all their security announce lists, patching as necessary, you're better off picking a Linux Distro that suits your needs and working with the versions they have available pre-packaged. The main advantage to this is that you know the versions, they will work together, they versions probably won't change during the lifetime of the release, and security fixes will be backported. If you do wish to go the route of mixing and matching the perfect versions, you also have to take into account the versions of the various dependencies that are installed on the system on which you wish to deploy. For example, you might decide that PHP 5.3.3 will be perfect, and then find out it requires a newer version of a library than is installed on your system. Upgrading the library means upgrading two more libraries that depends on, and so on. Before long, it all becomes an unmanageable mess. In summary, unless you have very very specific requirements, stick with the versions of the LAMP components which are packages on the server which you wish to deploy on. 

I like PmWiki quite a lot. It's easy to install, easy to customize, and it doesn't require a database. (Neither does Ikiwiki, which I've also used and liked.) PmWiki supports a great deal of customization through cookbook recipes, and it appears that it can do what you want in terms of user authentication and permissions. See this page. But I haven't used it that way, so I can't confirm how well that works. Edit: In response to the OP's comment, I have used BoltWire (check your spelling and your link - both are incorrect), and I prefer PmWiki. They are both reasonably easy to install and both pretty lightweight. I didn't dislike BoltWire at all, but I found PmWiki more fully-featured and easier to configure. Edit 2: Since you mention in a comment on another post that you are using Debian, both Ikiwiki and PmWiki are available in Debian and pretty trivial to install using your favorite APT package manager. I would recommend that you try both out and decide for yourself. 

What this means is that the only ip address allowed to be on the device on Fa0/1 is 192.0.2.1. If the user tries adding other ip address, they'll get no where. Of course this will only work where each host has a static ip. It might work as well with DHCP! This is on Cisco, but I'm sure other switches have similar features. 

How about putting a load balancer in front? One IP, multiple servers sharing load, and allows you to easily add more servers? Could be some as simple as a server running ipvs to dedicated load balancer hardware. 

is very handy in situations like this as it will basically umount and ask questions later. What it does is immediately umount the file system, and leave any open files hangining. As it can it will kill off any open files to the dead nfs mount. 

After much messing around, I rechecked NAP and disabled a block policy that seemed to be blocking the traffic (despite not being mentioned in the security log!). I re-enabled IP routing in RRAS, I changed the ip range given out from x.x.x.20-30 to x.x.x.225-235 and somehow one of these things made it work! I'm surprised and relieved that its working after the hours I've wasted trying to get it fixed. 

I've currently got a lovely working server that has an LSI 9265-8i RAID card in it with 4x1TB RE4 drives, also running CacheCade Pro 2.0 with 2x180GB SSDs in RAID1. I currently have the main array running on RAID6, as much as I like it. I think running RAID 0+1 would be a better choice for the speed and making the server more responsive. Is there a way to 'migrate' my array from '6 to '0+1 without a full backup and restore (which I'd take a full backup anyway if all went wrong)? The total available space will be the same (2TB) but I'm guessing my potential reliability will go down a little (if 2 drives fail simultaneously on the same stripe opposed to any 2 drives failing). Can anyone shed some more light on the subject please? Thank you for your help.