Note: is only really necessary if a variable with the same name exists. If you do not also have a variable named , then will delete the function. 

You need to escape the semicolon so that it is part of the binding (multiple commands in the binding) instead of separating multiple commands in your configuration file ( executed right after when your server is first starting up). 

If you have access to the compiler, you should be able to download the source archive, build it, and install it in your home directory. You can get a source archive from $URL$ The most recent release is 1.7.4.2, so you would get . You may also want and/or . There are versions available if you can not uncompress files. Git’s actually defaults to installing in your home directory. If you already have a well populated (etc.) and you want to install Git separately, then you can have it install everything under a some other “prefix” in your home directory. Using a unique prefix also makes it easy to uninstall or wipe and upgrade. 

Here is a small C program that can replace the problematic "df | head | awk" pipeline. Of course, such a C program could do the rest work itself, but it might be nice to have a stand-alone program that can just spit out NUL terminated mount points. 

Can GParted rewrite the partition map (delete the linux partition and then resize the remaining HFS+ partition) without trying to enlarge the HFS+ filesystem? If so you might then be able to use to enlarge the HFS+ filesystem to fit the bounds of the newly grown partition. Before trying this (or even using any of the commercial software), you should make sure you have a full backup (that way you can just destructively redo the partition with Disk Utility and restore from your backup—plus get a ‘free’ defrag for your troubles). 

There is an option to hide it. You can get the menu bar back by: Press the host key+HOME...default home key is the right ctrl. This will bring a pop-up menu, click View-->Menu Bar-->Show Menu Bar 

Yes. The installation DVD/ISO needs to have SP3 slipstreamed in it. Older versions without SP3 won't install. 

VMware Workstation and QEMU emulate & virtualize different hardware. Since XP is so old, it can rarely recover from a major subsystem change. First thing to try is removing the VMware Tools from the XP image while it's running in Workstation. This should remove any VMware specific drivers and may allow the system to boot. If that doesn't work, you will likely need to do a repair installation of XP. Boot from your XP CD-ROM, when you get to the setup screen, you want to press enter, not R. Follow the setup wizard, when you are prompted the second time to do a repair, press R, setup will detect the correct hardware and install the necessary drivers. Illustrated repair: $URL$ 

repeat steps 3,4,5 for the remaining partitions until all 3 have been removed. Be very careful when selecting and deleting, make sure you've got the right disk and partition before you delete. If you select and delete the wrong partition you could lose your data some pics here: $URL$ 

list disk -- this shows all the disks select disk number to select the correct disk, probably disk 1 list partition -- this shows all 3 of your partitions select partition number -- to select one of the partitions delete partition -- removes the partition 

You can stay in in Windows with the following: $URL$ $URL$ You'll need to adjust the target partition so it expands to the full size of the drive, but it's pretty much install, and follow the wizard. 

(where “ttyp6” is the name of the tty of interest) The mapping from process (PID) to cwd can be made with lsof: 

If you do not have access to the compiler on your target machine, then you will need access to a machine with a similar OS installation. Build with set to the path that will be used on the target machine and set to a temporary location (on the build machine). 

You can set the server option to suppress many of the messages that are displayed in the status line (including the message shown by ). This will not suppress messages that come from using the command. If the option is too broad*, or you want to be able to review the messages with †, then you might try setting the session option to a very small value‡. This will affect all messages (even those from ), so it also may not be appropriate for all situations. If you are only interested in suppressing the message from that one command/binding, and you are comfortable building software from source, then you might want to try out the current SVN trunk. Its command has a option that suppresses the normal informational message (i.e. ). This will be included in the next release (i.e. 1.7). * is is a server option, so it will affect all your sessions. † prevents the message from being entered into the message log. By default, (prefix) ~ is bound to . ‡ must be from the range 1–750. So zero is not a valid value, but the minimum value (1 millisecond) will probably be too fast to notice in most circumstances (e.g. unless your tmux server is on the other side of a slow link). 

But, this relies on having the mouse pointer properly positioned. If you have selected the files in Finder without using the mouse then the mouse pointer will likely be somewhere completely unrelated to your Finder task. 

After you click in the search bar, the search tab is now selected. At the end of the search section is a "+more" command, clicking that will bring up a list of categories to add to the search. 

Older versions of the SonicWall clients have issues with Windows 10 (and Windows 8). There was a Windows and DNE fix offered for a while. Recent versions of the client starting with at least 4.9 will work with Windows 10. I believe the current version is 4.10 and also works fine with Windows 10. I have seen on occasion where a Windows update breaks the VPN, but all that's needed is a reinstall, no immediate reboot necessary, for the VPN to work again. 

Instead of messing with the Registry, have you tried via the Control Panel. Under "Associate a file type or protocol with a program" you can select the extension and then associate a program with it. Clicking the "Change program" button allows you to browse to the folder where the .exe is. Also, make sure you're selecting the correct .exe file. If you double-click the .exe you want to associate, does it launch the program you're expecting? 

VirtualBox has this ability built into it's VirtualBox Additions. See: $URL$ Before sharing folders, you must install Guest Additions. For instructions on how to do this, see Guest Additions ($URL$ Creating a shared folder 

Check your firewall, it's likely blocking the ingress of your SSH and pings. Are you trying to connect to SSH via root? That's disabled by RH, you need to enable that. 

Take a look at zerotier: $URL$ It's an always on VPN, no logins. You'll set up a network, authorize and add the two computers to it with your specific IP addresses, and then you've got essentially a LAN connection between the two. $URL$ 

Per the documentation, when you create a detached session (), it defaults to a size of 80×24. If you attach with a terminal window that is actually 24 lines high (or 25, since tmux uses one for a status line), then you should find that the below-Vim pane does in fact end up with just five lines. The problem comes when you attach to the session with a terminal window that is much taller than 24 lines. When you do this, tmux resizes the panes to fill the full terminal window. The lower pane grows past its original five lines when this happens. One way to work around this problem is to create the detached session with an initial size that matches that of the terminal window from which you will eventually attach to the session. One semi-portable way to do this is to parse the output of (some shells also provide LINES and COLUMNS parameters (especially when in interactive mode), but these parameters are not always available and reliable in shell scripts). 

The argument passed to the program will be treated in a manner similar to an ANSI C string. If you want an actual backslash in the string you will have to escape it as , instead. So, if you really want the literal-string quoting that single quotes give you, you should probably stick with an embedded newline so that you do not have to worry about extra escaping. 

In short, setting these variables makes tar, et al. act like they would on (e.g.) Linux. If you rarely need to archive files that have extended attributes or resource forks, and you might need to archive or extract actual files, then you might consider setting and exporting these variables in one of your shell initialization files: 

Click Options from the menu, then click Privacy. Under "History\Waterfox will:" click "remember history" and change it to "Use custom settings for history" The last checkbox is "Clear history when Waterfox closes." There is a settings button on the right of that option that lets you pick what you want to clear, one of the options is cookies. 

In Search, search for and then select: System (Control Panel) Click the Advanced system settings link. Click Environment Variables. In the section System Variables, find the PATH environment variable and select it. Click Edit. If the PATH environment variable does not exist, click New. In the Edit System Variable (or New System Variable) window, specify the value of the PATH environment variable. Click OK. Close all remaining windows by clicking OK. Reopen Command prompt window, and run your java code. 

There is no WPS Pin, you need to add a password. On the printer, press Menu. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Network, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Wi-Fi Direct, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Group Owner, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select On, and then press OK. Press the Up or Down arrow key to select Manual, and then press OK. When Wi-Fi Direct On? appears, enable the Wi-Fi Direct network. The machine will display the SSID name and password for two minutes. Write down the network name (SSID) and password. You will need this information later. $URL$ Machine 

In Windows diskpart should be able to delete these. It's a command line prompt you run as administrator. You need to launch and elevated command prompt and run diskpart. See: $URL$ In diskpart: