In the XML, I see policy_evaluated shows a pass/fail for DKIM And SPF. Also auth_results shows a result for both as well. What are each of these? Why are they different sometimes? Is there no overall DMARC compliance tag? Which ones indicate DMARC compliance... the policy_evaluated? In the 3 examples below, the source_ip is not our mail server's IP like for the rest of them. I've found it's actually Google's IP on these, except Example 4.. Example 1 Here is one example that looks bad, right? fail, fail in policy_evaluated. I don't recognize the other domain at all, except gappssmtp.com must be Google Apps I'm guessing. 

How do larger companies do this? Do they have just a big inventory of exactly the same machines and they load up an image? Any help is appreciated! 

Example 4 I found this source_ip is associated with the domain that appears in the email address of someone we email with. 

I would like to set up my localhost website to work on an AWS EC2 database. In my configuration file I have to set up the hostname, username, password, db and so on and I don't know what to put under the hostname field. I tried my EC2 public IP (54.214.XXX.XXX) and DNS (ec2-54-214-XXX-XXX.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com) without success. How can I set up my localhost website with my distant database hosted on EC2 ? do I have to do something special on the server side ? Am I looking at the right place ? I'm using phpmyadmin Thanks 

I've just set up route 53 on AWS to link my server (ubuntu) to a godaddy domain name. I used to be able to access my /var/www/mmf folder from the elastic IP address given by aws (54.214.246.243/mmf) and since I've set up the route 53 service and linked it to the directory of my website, I can only access it through the domain address (www.meetmyfriends.co). My problem is that I have other directories on this same server I would like to access, I usually did 54.214.246.243/myotherdirectory to access other projects that didn't need any domain name. And now I can't. Why is this happening ? How can I fix this ? I want to be able to access my www server folder from my ip address 54.214.246.243 and the mmf sub directory (my website) from the web address in the same time. So i can still access the other projects on development I have on this server. How can I set that up. Thanks for your help :) EDIT: Maybe is this due to my httpd-vhosts.conf file: 

I want to solicit opinions and options on a way to improve setup time of our many computers. We are a small company, but we have lots of computers. Most of them are used for a certain role in our company, and they are pretty well utilized most of the time. We actually have 2 employees with this role at my location that probably have 15 computers each to work with. Those employees often find themselves babysitting OS (usually Windows) installations or installing more software to get these set up to be productive, with occasionally some turnover with setting up a new computer to replace and older one, etc. There are maybe 3 different profiles of workstations we'd want to set up with different sets of software for this purpose. Is there any way you can suggest to improve this process? I'm willing to accept suggestions from any direction. I'm not a system administrator, but again, we're a small company so I do lots of things. I'm sure it's impossible, but ideally we'd like to have system images that we can save, then load up on a given computer. It would include the OS, a set of software, and would work on different hardware as much as possible, and require the least amount of configuration once it was up and running. We have some old computers and some new, with different hardware, but our newer computers do have a lot in common. We will probably never be able to do a block buy of 10+ computers at a time though so we'll likely always have different hardware around. Obviously hardware can be a problem depending on what the strategy is. But maybe there is a way to do some minimum of installation/configuration that handles the hardware specific stuff, and then from there we can load the rest using a standardized process. Then maybe software licenses could be done as a last step or something. Anyway it would probably be useful if we could work something out that helped to some degree, even if only for the newer computers. The alternative is that we just make a backup image of every workstation we want to when it is in a full fresh configuration state. That actually still might be worth doing for us. Some things I've thought of: 

This happens on multiple computers and retrying yields the same result. Despite the error, the computer is still able to login to the domain ok. The DCs are windows 2003. Has anyone found a way to get rid of this error? Any help is appreciated. 

I also tried importing the new certificate into IIS7, after converting it to a pfx file. IIS takes it but I can't bind it. The error I get when I try to bind it is : There was an error while performing this operation. Details : A specified logon session does not exist. It may already have been terminated. Any help is appreciated. 

I have a multi-domain certificate I'm trying to install on IIS 7.0. When I use the IIS manager to complete certificate request, I get the error: There was an error while performing this operation. Details: CertEnroll::CX509Enrollment::p_InstallResponse: ASN1 bad tag value met. 0x8009310b (ASN: 267) One possible solution I found was to run certutil (after importing the cert via certmgr.msc): certutil -repairstore my "certificate thumbprint" But this gives me the error: 

I was following this tut on how to set up a EC2 instance on Ubuntu but qhen trying to execute ssh command on my IP address, I had an operation Timeout. So I tried to ping it but no chance neither. got Request timeout Any idea what to do to make it working ? Status is green on my dashboard. Thanks ! 

Our server has just been hacked few days ago, we made a complete backup of it, but, from that time, we get erros while trying to access our websites hosted on it : some times, everything works perfectly, and then when we refresh the page, we get an error message : Internal server error Where could that come from ? Thanks 

I'm having a hard time figuring out how to get rid of "www" in the url. I am looking for giving access to the website when you type down mywebiste.co as well as redirecting www.mywebsite.co to mywebsite.co I have tried through apache2, in the configuration files and create a virtual host but that didn't work from the tutorial I used. I'm thinking maybe I have to configure something else with AWS ? I don't really know what to look for to be honest. therefore my post here. I own the domain name with GoDaddy, and use Route 53 and EC2 on AWS to have my servers set up. You can try it here : www.meetmyfriends.co Many thanks. 

In case anyone is curious. You can try group policy setting: computer config\admin templates\system\logon\always wait for the network at computer startup and logon It does slow down PC startup, but it's helped me get login scripts to work in the past. 

Chris' suggestion did the trick. I updated the firmware for broadcom netxtreme II bcm5709c nic (I was reluctant to do at first this since I don't have physical access to the server and didn't want to lose my network connection). We haven't had any crashes since then. 

I took over support for a Windows 2008 domain that was set up by another system administrator. The DNS name of the domain is admin.example.com and a web site is also using the same DNS name. The sysadmin that set up the domain never put it into the corporate DNS server. Our windows domain clients work fine if they use the AD DNS. We have been getting by for years with no problem. Now I want to set up a trust with the main corporate AD, but I'm worried that it won't work because the corporate AD will be confused since a web server has admin.example.com. Unfortunately, I cannot replace the admin.example.com DNS record for AD. The website owner is not giving it up. Anyone have any suggestions on how to get this to work without doing something too hackish. Obviously, the corporate AD could just add DNS records for admin.example.com to point to my domain, but looking for a more elegant solution. Port forwarding didn't work for the website (forward port 80/443 to website, all other traffic to AD for admin.example.com). Another AD sysadmin suggested that setting DNS records in the corporate DNS as explained in this article : $URL$ Article seems dated, but it would leave admin.example.com alone for the website and theoretically allow AD servers to work properly with each other and the new corporate AD trust and AD domain clients would continue to work. The article suggest that following records be added to the corporate bind DNS: