Misaligned antenna polarization will affect the received signal strength. You need to consider how your clients' antennas are aligned and shoot for matching that as closely as possible. Antenna alignment gets kindof complicated because mobile clients like hand-held barcode scanners don't always keep their antennas aligned the same way; people often rotate the scanner to get a good barcode scan, and in the process change the scan gun's antenna plane. Tablets / iPads have similar problems. You should also to check the manufacturer's specs for how the antenna is polarized. We are using a dual polarized antenna that is both vertically and horizontally polarized, so you can mount it either way; however, that same manufacturer makes a single polarized antenna that would suffer if you rotated it. 

Informational: Sampled netflow Typically the syntax for sampled netflow on the 6500 is ; this samples one out of every 64 packets. The values for sampled netflow are limited... 

This part of the RFC discusses what should happen to ipv6 multicasts (or any other ethernet multicast mac address) that might share the same mac address with the ipv4 multicast IGMP join received by the switch. Section 1 makes this clear... 

The problem is that DNS queries from the DMZ to INSIDE are not getting translated. When I query for b2masd1 from the DMZ, I expect the nameserver on the INSIDE to respond with 10.195.18.182, and then the ASA should translate that to 1.195.18.182. However, that is not happening; as you can see, the DNS entry is not translated. 

Not quite true... polling dot1qTpFdbPort guarantees that these are the mac addresses learned by the switch, or statically configured on the switch. A few notable exceptions to your statement: 

Now redistribute into ospf... You can optionally add a high admin distance if your routing policy requires it. Example: 

So pretend Stack Exchange was applying these ACLs to the router above, they could use this inbound on their POS1/0 interface; because traffic to the Stack Exhange webserver would be going to TCP/80 

Captures showing queries from b2masd1 to the name server (10.195.18.201). NOTE the double DNS queries sent on the INSIDE interface, but we don't seem to get those on the DMZ interface. 

I pulled an old ASA5550 off the shelf, which had 8.4(2) loaded on it. When I tried to boot it, I got the following error... 

Another example, the display filter to find an External LSA (LSA Type 5) with the ID of 10.4.27.0 (hex 0a.04.1b.00): 

The layer you labeled in your diagram is considered the core (also called the backbone). The firewalls in your diagram form a boundary on the core layer, since they transition to another network. Core networks are local to your company or autonomous system. Keep your core layer as stable as possible. That typically means keeping changes to a minimum, as well as not homing servers or users directly in the core layer. Typically you put your fastest elements in the core; over time the core devices may be repurposed to the edge of the network as the former core devices loose capacity to handle evolving loads. 

If you really want to wrap your mind around all this, consider an OSPF router, which has a loopback interface; this router is completely contained in a single OSPF stub area. Technically, you could apply all three of the OSPF "stub" terms to this Loopback (Stub Host, Stub Network, Stub Area). 

Short answer: There is no problem with your proposal... Long answer: Even Peter's answer, which argues that reusing area numbers is bad design, offers no proof that this is a bad design; if you examine the hyperlinks he used, there is no explanation of undesirable consequences for this design. Furthermore, the argument that you might have problems connecting R1 and R3 falls short, since the R1 to R3 link could legitimately be configured in either Area 0 or Area 1, depending on what traffic you want to transit it. The difficulties he mentions are a false dilemma. In RFC 2328, Section 3.7 OSPF explicitly allows you to use discontiguous non-backbone areas (which are called "area partitions", below): 

Let's assume that you are in a bash shell on the quagga router... use the command to capture output from quagga (or any other interactive CLI session)... a contrived example which saves the quagga bgp routes to a file named bgp_routes.txt 

The ASA even renamed the interface references from to automatically... TCP sessions through the FW did not drop when I did it. WARNING Whatever you do, do not try ... it will hose your config... 

MPLS TE Tunnels Build the following tunnels so we can use ECMP to meet your requirements. Each tunnel interface will have the same OSPF cost. 

Depending on the version of WLC code that you're running, you can either manually disable the status LED on the AP or flash it by logging into the WLC and issuing a command... Then just walk around with your laptop and turn off / flash LEDs until you find the right AP. To disable the status LED, use this... 

I have first-hand knowledge of several large US service providers who are using the Catalyst 6500 in both Aggregation and Edge roles. 

Every time you see , that regular expression represents a single BGP autonomous system. This as-path list denies BGP as paths equal to or longer than 12 paths long. The regular expression works because represents any character, is a wild card which optionally repeats the previous character an unlimited number of times, and represents the space between the autonomous system paths. For more information, refer to the Cisco IOS Regular Expression guide, or this INE BGP Regular Expressions blog. 

1 After Feb 2012, Cisco encourages customers to use the ASR9K for PPPoE termination. 2 The 6500 and 7600 used to share a lot of hardware and software (sometimes on different SW releases), but that sharing has decreased after the release of 12.2(33)SR / 12.2(33)SX. 

No based on Figure 1, you should select the Cisco 2951 or Cisco 3925; this assumes that you really will need NAT, QoS, and ACLs on that 100Mbps circuit. The Cisco 2951 is a little light for this application at an average IMIX packet size of 409 bytes + features. If you aren't going to turn on a lot of features, or your average packet size will be much higher (as I'd expect for backup traffic), then you can get by with the Cisco 2951 (or even smaller - see my next answer). 

All this is not to be confused with what OSPF refers to as "Stub Network"... which merely means a network without an OSPF neighbor 

Yes and no... you can't manually set a link's cost to 0, but if you have a Designated Router election on the network, the cost from the DR to any attached router on the same Broadcast / NBMA network is considered 0. As such, be sure that the A-B and C-D links are OSPF broadcast networks; this forces a DR election and will make the cost of A-B and C-D zero. The DR is sometimes referred to as a pseudonode in OSPF. Once you make the A-B and C-D links zero cost in OSPF (by virtue of a DR election), A-C and B-D links should be set to the same cost if you want equal-cost load-balancing. 

Remember also that those are unidirectional numbers; you should double them when considering RTT. Whether you care about 11.6 milliseconds difference in each direction at 1500 bytes is another question, but strictly speaking you can influence RTT with link speed. 

Question How do I use DHCP to make these LAPs use unicast packets to initiate CAPWAP with the WLC? Version information for the LAP / WLC system... 

The AP is running a 12.4(25e)JAL1a receive image. The 2960S is running 12.2(55)SE7. Question: How can I make this AP turn on the radios? 

I assume you're asking to compare Cisco Access Control Lists (ACL) and Cisco Flexible Packet Matching (FPM). Packets contain a number of fields, such as: 

First, identify all ingress and egress Layer3 interfaces that the PBR traffic could transit Next, examine the output of (you must look at both ingress and egress directions for all interfaces in Step 1). Your traffic will be HW switched if the values in CAPS match the values you see below... note that the output of the command I'm using is very similar to what you see in ... 

All the above means you cannot 100% guarantee that the mac returned by dot1qTpFdbPort is directly connected to the switch. If you take care of these kind of issues in your code, then you shouldn't have problems. 

Number of hosts = 2*255 + 6*256 = 2046 hosts Method 2 Use this method to find the number of hosts between two arbitrary IP addresses... convert the two 32-bit IP addresses to integers and subtract... 

Most Cisco routers and switches allow 1500 byte IP payloads by default, even when tagged with dot1q. You can verify this with ... 

I just want to briefly mention the reality of marketing math when you're considering vendor data sheets. It is very common for vendors to double-count bps or pps capacity when you have full-duplex links. For instance, Cisco's Catalyst 6500 has a Supervisor 720. 720 is used because it is marketed as having 720Gbps of fabric capacity. But... if you ask how Cisco calculates 720Gbps, the answer is: 

The RFC requires Loopback network types to be advertised as a /32 host route. What Cisco calls a Stub Host in output is really just the Loopback interface type, which OSPF allocates automatically as a /32 host route within OSPF. OSPF Stub Area Stub areas are covered in RFC 2328: OSPFv2 - Section 3.6. There are several categories of OSPF stub areas... 

Interface netmasks To make your topology work, your masks will have to match on all RIPv1 interfaces, unless you use a classless routing protocol (such as RIPv2, EIGRP, OSPF, or ISIS). If you need to use RIPv1, then reconfigure your topology such that all interfaces have matching masks, like this... 

Backing up the host keys to replace them is more trouble than it's worth. If you don't want your scripts to barf on key changes (in *nix), run like this... 

This configuration reserves addresses for fa0/1 and fa0/2. The same address will always be assigned to those ports. 

Solution: Only Forward lookups Use under the vty / console lines to restrict IOS behaviour to only forward lookups... 

Moving on to the RIPv1 auto-summarization example... I will use matching /24 interface netmasks for simplicity. 

formerly performed a reverse-lookup on 172.16.1.5 as well as populating the host cache, but neither happens now... 

By doing this, you prevent the Brocade from ARP-ing for all of 10.1.0.0/16 (note, you might need to renumber the link between R1 and R2 to be outside 10.1.0.0/16, depending on Brocade's implementation of things). 

This modulation scheme requires 1.5KHz of bandwidth on the wire. However, that tells you nothing about the bit rate transmitted (which confusingly, is also known as 'bandwidth', but let's not use an overloaded term). One reason that an FM system might space 0 and 1 symbols 1.5KHz apart is because there are limits to how well, how quickly, and how economically the modem can measure the frequency changes on the wire.