Syncplicity allow you to use "as many computers as you like" with the standard subscription. If you don't want to take advantage of their synchronization functionality, you should be able to turn that off, and just backup all your machines using the same account/license on each. Unfortunately I don't think they have a Linux client at present. 

I do the same, as various of our Intranet sites use NTLM so I use an IE tab for those so that I don't have to provide my domain credentials every time. I use IE tab as opposed to IE tab classic, and for me this too prompts for credentials before switching over to IE. However, once the switch is made my credentials are successfully passed across automatically, without needing to refresh the IE window or type them in by hand. This means I just dismiss the Chrome login dialog, and I'm logged in to the page I need. So it may be worth trying out the other extension instead, to see if that helps. 

Just looking at my machine here (unfortunately XP so admittedly not the same), if I go into the exceptions tab in firewall settings, and edit the "File and Printer Sharing" entry, there is an option to "Change Scope". This presents you with the following three options: 

I don't know about installing .NET on another partition, but you could move the pagefile off the C drive onto either D or E? This should free you up some space on C - see this KB Article. 

Thats the file format for 7zip archives. You can grab the 7zip software from here. EDIT: If you're new to 7zip/Linux, some useful advice can be found on this page. 

You can create a second instance of the XP mode virtual machine by basing it on the same base image as that of the instance created by the installer. There's a good blog post here that walks through the process (in this case, the author is creating the second VM in order to run IE 6, 7 and 8 side-by-side). EDIT: I should also point out that this process can be used as many times as you like, so you can create more than two copies should you wish to. 

The Artic Cooling Freezer 64 Pro is very well thought of, and covers you for both now the current and future processors. Best of all it won't break the bank ($28 on NewEgg)! 

You could try out BrowserShots, its free ;) This will also be useful if you want to look at the site in multiple different versions of the same browser (IE6, IE7, IE8 etc), without having to go through installing each version, checking the site then moving on to the next version. 

In addition to the answers by Graham and Jared, you can also change the thumbnail size for different categories such as documents, picture etc. E.g. the Pictures folder: 

None of these solved the problem. Adobe Bridge shows thumbnails properly for this folder. I don't know if it's anything to do with having turned on Files on Demand for OneDrive after the Fall Creators Update (the folder in question is in my OneDrive folder). I can't remember if I had a problem with these thumbnails before I updated, but I don't think so. Update: I think this is a problem with OneDrive Files on Demand in File Explorer. I've noticed that thumbnail generation is pretty slow across the board or my OneDrive folders. Thumbnails don't seem to persist for more than a few days. I sometimes see a flash of thumbnails before it re-generates all of them in the folder. Does anyone know how I can force thumbnail generation? 

I have a folder of RAW .NEF photos which my Windows 10 PC isn't showing the thumbnails for in File Explorer (for this folder only - and actually it is showing thumbnails for only a few random ones). (These particular photos were taken with a Nikon D610 that I borrowed - higher resolution than more normal camera - but I don't think this should have anything to do with it. I have a copy on an external hard drive, and the thumbnails are showing properly when I plug that in.) I tried: 

So I finally manned up and just went for it. As of April 2015, the OneDrive sync engine on Windows 8.1 is sophisticated enough to recognise the files, and avoid all of the issues I feared in the question. I clicked on the notification area icon, and clicked 'Resume synchronisation'. Whilst it started resuming, I copied the local files into the OneDrive folders, choosing to 'replace all' the not-downloaded OneDrive copies. After a moment, Windows realised they were the same files and didn't upload/duplicate them. However, I did have some issues. 1) Because I had not synced OneDrive on that desktop for so long, when I clicked 'resume', it looked like nothing was happening. But rest assured that it is indeed syncing. There was no way to pause the sync whilst it was in the process of resuming. 2) I accidentally clicked 'make online only' on my OneDrive folder in the file explorer, whilst it was resuming syncing. Don't do this. This messed things up, causing some duplicates (with the name of the desktop computer suffixed to the filenames). Luckily, only a small proportion of files were duplicated. This resulted in, for example, a DSC_0001.jpg [the original, online-only, syncing] and a DSC_0001-brianPC.jpg [available offline, syncing]. If I tried to delete DSC_0001-brianPC.jpg and then re-replace DSC_0001.jpg with the local version, it had to re-upload DSC_0001.jpg unfortunately. So make sure not to click 'make online only'. 3) Before I started, I decided to run the OneDrive troubleshooter to reset OneDrive on that desktop. I thought OneDrive would start from square one again, on that desktop, but actually the OneDrive files and folders were unaffected. In fact, the sync resumed afterwards, earlier than I wanted. This didn't really matter in the end. Extra I suspect that one factor that can determine whether OneDrive will recognise (i.e. not duplicate) the files depends on the 'date modified' metadata. Wait, I don't think so actually. Perhaps it is more to do with which hard disk the files you are using to replace the OneDrive files are on. Or perhaps it just gets messed up if you accidentally make files online-only. 

In short, Wireshark is merely displaying bytes, which may or may not be text, but if they are text they're likely to be ASCII and not Unicode. Wireshark displays data bytes - both string and binary - as ASCII characters, with the '.' being used to denote any non-printable character. There are many, many network protocols which use ASCII characters to communicate on the wire - FTP, SMTP, Telnet, HTTP, IRC, etc. etc. If a network protocol uses text to communicate, then it is almost certainly using ASCII. I am not familiar with any protocols which use UTF/Unicode as the basis for communication. Any protocol - such as HTTP - which wishes to communicate Unicode data will signal at the application layer that the following bytes are to be interpreted as Unicode. (I do not know for sure, but I would expect that Wireshark interpreters which can catch that and display appropriately exist, but they would still display ASCII in the "Packet Bytes" windows, because that's what those are - bytes - 8 bit units - best displayed in an 8-bit text format like ASCII.) 

Tripwire applies, but it's learning-usability curve can be unkind. OSSEC applies but has wider goals and implications than simply FIM - which may be a good thing, may be a bad thing, depends on where you are. For point solutions (servers not server farms) I prefer AIDE. I think of it as a much simpler version of Tripwire, and depending on where you're using it, sometimes simplicity is preferred. 

has the advantage that you can specify the process to check rather than having to grep it out of larger output. is more reliably available on systems, although is becoming more standard than it used to be. 

it's easy to understand how one might make the blanket statement "it isn't shipped." For kicks and giggles, I polled an example of four systems representing different OS, and it was a 2-and-2 split whether Telnet had been enabled or not. Servers had been enabled, desktops hadn't. Given that most people actually do their work from desktops, and given that this thread started with someone who didn't have it installed on their system, the distinction is kind of specious. That said, I'm happy to learn that I can easily update Windows to include Telnet. It's the only good port scanner Windows has. 

Some mail providers, such as Hushmail, strip all IP information from mail before forwarding along. But this is, in general, only a service provided by secure or anonymous email services, not something you can make your existing provider do. Because the IP addresses in the "Received" headers are stamped on by the mail servers, it's not possible for clients to remove them - you need a complicit mail server working to keep your IP out of the record. 

Change the thumbnail size Open the folder Properties (right click > Properties) and click on the 'Customise' tab , and make sure that the folder is optimised for Pictures. Tick 'Apply to all sub folders' and press OK Now open File > Change folder and search options. Click on the view tab and where it says 'Folder Views', click 'Apply to Folders' 

I've been given a document where the majority of the text is styled as for some reason. I want to change it to without changing the formatting - is this possible? 

Create a new empty file called something like . Go to a file with the extension you want to reset and . Make sure is ticked. Then and choose the you just created. Delete . Double click the file again and dismiss the Open with box (this might not be necessary). Now open regedit and delete the following keys: 

I'm trying to develop my first Windows UWP app, following this tutorial on creating a UI. When I have added a TextBlock to MainPage.xaml, I can't choose System Resource from the property marker menu for the Style attribute, in the Properties window. Why is this? Am I missing a particular Visual Studio component? If I try typing out the style specified in the tutorial , IntelliSense does suggest these. 

This seems to me to be a major bug in Windows 10. But you can stop Windows Update to recover your internet connection. If you go to Network & Internet in Settings, then WiFi, then click Advanced Options, you can set the network as a metered connection to stop Windows Update. I suggest you do this temporarily so that you can actually use the internet. Here is a link to the issue in the Windows Feedback app, if you want to upvote it: 

With the Windows Subsystem for Linux enabled, you can switch to the Linux shell by running in command prompt. Is it possible to go the other way, and switch back to the command prompt? 

One way to force File Explorer appears to be to open each photo individually - but this is exceedingly tedious. Another way I have figured out is to navigate to the folder in the Windows Photos app, then scroll about lots. This seems to generate thumbnails in File Explorer. However, the thumbnails generated in this way have disappeared since restarting the computer. 

I've found one way to sort of do it - use a macro (this is the first time I've tried using them). Highlight the required text and click on . Then change the style to and change the font back. When finished click . You can then run the macro every time you highlight the offending paragraphs. Unfortunately this doesn't preserve bold/italicised, but it is the only method I can think of. 

A restart is not technically required, because only programs which use glibc need to be restarted, and the kernel does not use glibc. That being said, restarting everything that uses glibc is sufficiently broad that you might as well just reboot. For example, uses glibc. However restarting it is trivial (run as root). 

What they actually mean is that the header field in the request needs to use a ':' separator. So instead of sending this: 

Generally speaking, telnet is a standalone executable, not a command shell primitive. But it isn't shipped installed by default with newer Windows systems. You could install the Microsoft version or use a third-party equivalent like PuTTY/PuTTYtel or dtelnet. Once you have a telnet program installed and in your path you're back to running it from the command prompt - whichever command shell you choose. Edit @Sunk818 comments that Telnet is, in fact, shipped. I've corrected the phrasing above. But given that the very article he quotes states that 

They represent non-printable characters - things like newlines, carriage feeds, EOF, NUL, etc. etc. You can look at the corresponding hex code (to the left) to figure out what the actual byte is. Consider this example displaying the 'Certificate' packet from an HTTPS server to the client. The 'Certificate' TLS message contains both binary and textual data; the text comes from the certificate itself: 

They're made up. Oh, not completely; they use specific OUIs (the first 3 octets, sometimes called a vendor ID) to not conflict with known hardware vendors. But they're generated locally, there's no central database or anything like that. 

These are not error responses, they are redirection responses. Google has heard our request, and would like us to re-request it differently. In my case, it told me I shouldn't ask "google.com", I should ask "www.google.com", and I should keep that in mind for next time. In your case it wanted you to go to www.google.co.in and to use a different query string - presumably you're in India and they want you to hit a local version of Google. As for wanting you to use a different query string, well, those are normal looking Google query string (gws_rd, ei) parameters; they're just neatening up your query for you. This is normal web application behavior. You crafted a query by hand. The Web App (Google) didn't like certain aspects of your query, and rewrote it to be more compliant with what would have happened had you gone in a regular browser and searched for "cats". They then handed this new URL to your client (openssl in this case) and told it to go ask again. But since you're doing this by hand, you didn't ask again, and instead you misconstrued it as an error condition. If I do as they ask and repeat my query but with instead of , I get the results you would expect if you were searching for cats.