TL;DR RAM "optimizers" (or cleaners/boosters/whatever) are junk and should be avoided, no matter what. So yes, remove such useless program(s). The proper way When you're running out of memory you either: 

By using a program like RegShot or Process Monitor you can compare the registry changes. The affected registry key is: 

Formatting through the command line When formatting via the graphical interface, Windows will try to detect and list only the file systems which are best suited for the selected disk or partition. By using a command prompt you can override the default behavior, and use just any file system. 

Export all profiles, automatically skipping those with unsupported characters in their name. Wipe all of them. Import everything saved in step 1. 

Update Here's a simplified version of the batch script which will check the external camera only when started and then exit: 

While the driver provided by AMD is the most updated one, it's a generic version and might not be fully compatible with your motherboard. What can you do is: 

Copy the file to the desktop, and rename it to . Open file using a hex editor (e.g. HxD). Go to the proper hexadecimal offset. See below. Change the first two bytes there to , and save the changes. Copy the saved file to the program folder. Open an elevated command prompt, type or paste the following command, and press Enter: 

The valid range was , at least until Windows Server 2003. As of Windows 7, when you enable the 128-bit encryption option through the GUI, both are set to . Otherwise they're set to . Batch automation Here's a sample batch script which can apply the required changes automatically. Just make sure to run it with administrator rights. 

Clear the Client-Side Cache (CSC) At this point the offline cache should be empty. By running the commands below in an elevated command prompt you can ensure there are no leftovers: 

Manage the IDE controller In case the VM doesn't have an IDE controller you can use the command to add one: 

If you were having performance issues before, 2 extra GB will certainly help. When adding extra memory is not an option, get rid of running applications you don't need: some programs feel they are so important they should be always automatically start at system boot. More often then not, you actually want them to run on-demand. Installed vs. usable memory Keep in mind one thing is the physical memory installed and another is the total memory available to the system. If you got an integrated graphic card, for example, part of the memory could be reserved for it. Also, Windows 32-bit client versions are artificially limited to 4 GB (except Windows Vista/7 Starter editions, where the limit is 1 GB and 2 GB respectively) and won't recognize anything past that unless you hack your way round this licensing restriction. Further reading 

The program was installed on 2014/01/02 at 22:02 by selecting the Everyone option during setup (Install for anyone who uses this computer). Choosing Just me would install those .exe files in instead. Additional information The hexadecimal-named file is a startup stub just an icon file with a different extension and won't run manually because apparently it's not meant so because it's not an executable file at all. Here's an excerpt of the file content: 

Press Ctrl+A to select all results. Hold down the Shift key, and right-click the very first item in the list. Choose Copy as path from the context menu. Paste the results in a new text file. 

Briefly, the first field is the user account name; the second field is the unique Security Identifier for that account; the third field is the LM hash; the forth field is the NT hash. The main difference is that starting with Windows Vista the the LM hash is no longer stored by default for security reasons. Apart from that, you can clearly see the hashes are identical. Further reading 

Firefox settings Many settings, especially the most advanced ones, are not present in the User Interface (UI) options dialog. 

svchost.exe The executable file is described as Host process for Windows Services. It's a generic process that hosts different system services. 

Full encryption If you need true disk encryption, you should probably look into BitLocker (only available on the Ultimate and Enterprise editions), or a third-party solution like TrueCrypt. TrueCrypt - update The official TrueCrypt website now reads: 

Download BEncode Editor. Make a backup of the original file. Open the file using BEncode Editor, and expand the node. Remove all items items in the subnode, except those you want to preserve. Save the new torrent. 

File information As Microsoft no longer provides MSE for download on Windows XP, you need to rely on third parties who can provide the old setup package. Here are the basic details and hashes of the official US English () installer and the user interface executable (which is language neutral): 

Delete the shortcut. Open a command prompt window, and type the following to navigate to the folder: 

As you're not looking for a specific text, this method should work in most Windows locales catching multiple error messages without extra effort. Example output 

Note While you could just concatenate commands by using one ampersand (), a double ampersand will ensure that the second command is executed only if the previous one finished successfully. Further reading 

Log on with an administrator account, and open a command prompt. Type or paste the following command, and press Enter: 

Manual removal instructions No third party software required. Tested with K9 Web Protection version 4.4.268 on Windows Vista SP2 (32-bit). Confirmed by @stiemannkj1 to be working on Windows 7. Should also work on Windows 8.x. 

Stripping quotes The quotes might get in the way, but the batch script below can remove them for you. Just save it as (or whatever you like, just keep the extension). The script accepts two parameter: input/output files, respectively. Example usage 

Note The Offline Files driver and service must be stopped for the commands to work. Disable scheduled tasks Open an elevated command prompt, and run the following commands: 

Short answer It doesn't need to, as of now. Long answer Code that targets the .NET Framework Common Language Runtime (CLR) is known as managed code, and code that doesn't is known as unmanaged. 

The format is . Anything after the period represents the number of milliseconds, which can be safely ignored. The value is parsed this way: 

Install Chrome. Ensure the volume where the folder is stored has more than 32 GiB of free space. Set the homepage to to prevent a dirty cache on startup. Clear all cached images and files from the beginning of time. Close the browser. 

As long as granting access to everyone is acceptable, you can use the command like this, changing the permissions as needed: 

Open NOD32, and press F5 to access the Advanced setup dialog. Navigate to the Computer > HIPS section. Uncheck the Enable HIPS option, and restart Windows to apply the changes. Apply the required changes. When done, follow steps 1-3, and enable HIPS again. 

Its probably a driver matter. Download the win 10 enabled drivers for your OS/GPU combo and it should be okey. I highly doubt this has anything to do with the screen itself. 

It seems your drive is currently running at SATA 2 speeds (due to interface limitation probably). The problem with that, is that it tops at 300MB/s theoretically. So with some loss, the speeds you are getting are logical. The Acer V3-771G laptop is not able to run the 2.5 HDD slots at SATA3 speeds. You can see in many reviews in internet (in HWinfo screenshots) that the drives run on SATA2 mode (see NotebookReview image). This doesn't kill your overall system's reactivity, but sequential read/write speed (not really relevant out of benchmark) will top around less than 300MB/s. 

High temperatures reduce lifespan of the components. But 69° average isn't bad for the GPU. I would advice not to force max speed, the EC knows how to handle heat and will kick up the fans when needed. 

Trying to run windows on an SD card isn't a good idea, since they are not made for intensive I/O and will have low performance. I would highly advice you not to try that. If you are willing to do it, you can test the speed by setting-up and running a Windows-to-go on that SD card and boot from it. We tested on lab an USB 3.0 64gig stick windows to go install and it was incredibly slow and unresponsive. The best solution for you is to swap the 32GB drive you have in your tablet and replace it with a proper drive. If this is not possible, try to see if you can add another drive (M2/mSATA) and use it as a system drive. edit: after providing us the PDF manual of the laptop, we can ensure that the SSD is a Liteon CS1-SP32 (M2-2240 format) I would recommend buying a new M2 drive with proper capacity (no lower that 128GB for OS drive) you can aim for instance this drive : Transcend TS128GMTS400. 

I would advise you to update to the last BIOS. This looks like a small bios bug. Another thing you can do is switching the DIMM's spots (DIMM 1 to slot 2 and vise-versa). Sometimes the BIOS doesn't properly detect the timings and frequencies (goes for the freq/times of one DIMM and ignore the other) when they are not identical. If your bios is sort of unrestricted (but usually not the case in laptops), you can verify if the frequencies/timings are okey (via CPU-Z in windows which allows you to see the defined parameters in SPD's) and modify them properly in BIOS (by setting them manually). 

For the advanced functions to work (separate volumes etc..), you need to install compatible and proper drivers. The main issue here is that your OEM probably does not support anything past vista. 

as a video card means you don't have the proper graphic card driver installed. It is not a "real" graphics adapter, it uses System RAM and CPU to process video output and thus doesn't literally allocate "Video RAM". It stores what it needs in system memory and is unsuitable for long term use. It will allocate a 8/32MB max buffer from the system RAM (best case scenario), you may try to verify the exact amount using gpu-z. I would strongly advice you to install the proper drivers from (Intel/AMD/Nvidia) to get the real performance out of your hardware ! edit : seems you have installed the nvidia drivers yet the card (1080 Ti) is not detected. Can you provide us a screenshot of your device manager and edit the question accordingly ? 

I would advice to use this driver for your card (it's the latest revision of the 1704 WLAN card from Jan 17) : $URL$ This driver is older BUT designed for Win 8.1, you should try the newer one before this one : $URL$ 

For instance : if you have a Lenovo T420, try the Win 8.1 Audio drivers for Lenovo T430 (I suppose that they both use for instance Realtek Audio chipsets). 

Know that usually, interference can come from everything that has uses electromagnetic waves OR physical damage (like wet on the cables), faulty filter, or phone line installation close to electrical disturbance sources. If your DSL subscription line is equal or lower than 8Mbps you can try to configure your router to synchronize with DSLAM using the G.dmt norm (ADSL1) instead of ADSL2+ (G992.5). It's more stable, and stresses way less the line than the other synchronization mode. (same principle can be done with 12Mbps and ADSL2, not 2+ ) 

Since you are replacing both of the sticks, you won't face an issue with the timing (CL). Just pick the fastest speed 1GB sticks at (400MHz) for maximum performance and it should run flawlessly. The CL timings/frequency problems usually occur when you want to use different DIMMs which have not the same speed/timings. This results usually in the BIOS selecting the slower values in order to ensure stability (even if some good quality RAM can run faster than it's reference values) Don't forget that if your machine can run 2GB max of RAM, it usually means that it can take 1GB per slot, you should not try to get 2GB single DIMM since you will loose dual channel (activated when you use more than 2 DIMMs) and it will probably won't work ! 

TL;DR : You can't do that in a simple way. Long story short, a laptop's screen is made to receive a signal and output it not the contrary. Even if the laptop was equipped with HDMI, that would be an output that is wired to the GPU that would be used for an external monitor connection. Using the laptop's screen by itself requires a direct connection (with an adapter ?) to the screen, which will disable it's capacity to show the laptop's output signal. 

You should try to plug directly the modem to the phone line and see if you get improvement. You should also see if you have a capacitors that were used in old phone plugs in some countries (see pic). 

It's where you can find all the existing data from your existing connections (wired and wireless). delete what you need it forget from there (you obviously need root privileges) edit : ince you are using a lite debian dist, you dont have the NetworkManager. Assuming that you deleted the targeted network from the wpa_supplicant.conf file, you have to save changes, so try to restart the service by using : 

Well, let's make it clear for readers, temps and repaste jobs are not the issue here. High GPU temps cannot double (or triple) the discharge rate like we are seeing here (even if it can be a symptom that the gpu is at full speed 24/7). It lowers efficiency, for sure, but certainly doesnt make the battery last less time ! I'll post the proper answer : The laptop is using Nvidia optimus, means dGPU is OFF when not gaming (on battery or not). So the real issue here is that the dGPU is probably always ON (which would explain why the drain is higher than your dad's laptop). either you have a soft that activates the Nvidia dGPU on background (GPU-Z does that for instance). OR the configuration of Nvidia drivers is wrong and dGPU is always ON or activated with wrong programs (Chrome, Word etc...). The solution was to reinstall Intel/Nvidia drivers from scratch (Nvidia's installer offer an "perform a new install" option, I don't know about Intel). You basically did that "reset drivers settings" by reinstalling windows which solved your issue.