No this isn't doing anything. When the port is in trunk mode, then any "switchport access" statements are not used. The same is true with a port in access mode with any "switchport trunk" statements. In this case, you should be able to safely remove it. The purpose for this is usually in the use of DTP (dynamic trunking protocol). So you could configure a port as both a trunk (with "switchport trunk" statements) and an access port (with "switchport access" statements). When the link negotiates as a trunk, it will have the correct trunk configuration and if it doesn't negotiate as a trunk, it will have the correct access configuration. When DTP is not used, there is little point to it. I personally have this configured on some of my lab ports, so I can just switch the switchport mode depending on what I am conneting on the ports. Often in the wild, I have found this type of configuration where devices are staged using access ports and then never cleaned up when it is configured to use a trunk port when deployed. 

The models are ways of providing a framework/definition of abstract concepts. The reality of implementations don't (and sometimes can't) follow the constraints of the models. 

OM ratings are for multi-mode fiber. Single-mode fiber uses OS ratings and for a 200 meter run, the choice of OS rating should only be dependent on they type of installation (and should have been properly determined by your installer). As for the wavelength this is determined by the transceiver, so you will be fine as long as you go with LX or LH transceivers for this run. I prefer optics that support digital optical monitoring (DOM), if the platform (i.e. switch/router) also supports it as this will allow you to determine things like low/high power levels. The linked product does not appear to have DOM support. 

You seem to be going about this the right way (which is the only real question I can find in your post), but I will throw in a few more considerations and/or options. 

I know OSX also supports 802.11d, but I don't have an OSX system to provide output or to say how to get this information exactly. Based on this blog post, it appears that unlike my Linux system (which appears to set the available channels each time it connects), OSX may set channels/power levels based on the first beacon if finds when the wireless network interface comes up. This can be problematic if you have devices advertising incorrect country/region codes in your area. I haven't tested this myself, so can't speak to the accuracy of the blog post. So, going back to my FCC channel example above, even once the technical challenges of the new channels are overcome and they are supported on new access points, if you client doesn't recognize them as part of the "US" region, they won't be available when 802.11d kicks in. To specifically answer your question, we would need to know a bit more information. Your guess that it may be based on your region is close, however it is actually based on the region your client thinks it is in. If it thinks it is in a region where channels 100-140 are not usable, you won't be able to use them (whether or not you really could be using them is another matter entirely). Conversely, you need to make sure your access point is configured for the correct region. If it isn't, it is possible that you could be subject to legal repercussions if you are reported or found to be using frequencies that you don't have the right to use. 

As an aside, this is the most often reported type of duplex mismatch (where the switch is set to auto and the computer to full duplex). Most people download much more than they upload, they tend to notice this condition more easily to report it. 

Been awhile since I worked Cisco APs on the command line however if I am reading the configuration right, there are a couple of changes I would make that may help performance. As it stands, if any client does connect using TKIP, then the AP will automatically disable the MCS rates (i.e. 802.11n rates), leaving you with only legacy rates (up to 54Mbps). This can have a serious performance impact as it affects all clients. First, in your configuration, I would set the wireless to specifically use WPA2. While not necessary for performance once you disable TKIP (with TKIP enabled, some clients that choose to use WPA rather than WPA2 will also use TKIP by default) this does simplify troubleshooting as you don't have to figure out which key management method is in use by clients. You can do this by changing to this: 

As John already answered, 802.11i no longer exists as it has been superseded by a more recent standard, namely the 802.11-2007 standard. For the 802.11 working group, you can always find the status of standards by looking here. You really need to review the document and parts of 802.11i may be in several places. From a very brief look at the table of contents, you may want to start with sections 5.4, 5.8 and 8. You will need to key in on sections relating to PSK and CCMP specifically, as WPA2, Personal, and Enterprise are terminology coined by the Wifi Alliance, not the IEEE. Even without reviewing the document, it is a fairly easy concept to understand the vulnerability. Equate this to a file that is AES encrypted with a static password. If someone were to get a copy of the file, all they needed to do to decrypt it would be to brute force decrypting the file until they found a password that produces meaningful output. If someone captures the connection handshake on a PSK network, this is exactly the same process. This may not be quick and take lots of processing resources, it can be done. As to what resources are necessary to perform such an attack, you may want to look into the BackTrack distribution. This is a distribution targeted at security/penetration testing and there are several books and many documents describing how to use the tools within for all kinds of security applications. Edit: I should have mentioned, while 802.11-2007 rolled up802.11i, the current standard is 802.11-2012 and this is a roll up of 802.11-2007 and and the amendments between. 

This really depends on the network, but I would lean towards the L2 VLAN. While some have expressed concerns about a loop on the VLAN, but in 12 years on big networks, I haven't EVER seen a loop created on a network management VLAN. Not to say it couldn't happen, but generally people who know enough to set up a management VLAN generally know enough not to be causing loops on the network. Most loops I have come across are on user VLANs where an end user connected/configured something incorrectly or when a server admin misconfigures link aggregation/redundancy on their server or misconfigures a VM environment. Moving to a L3 approach does avoid that particular problem, but it is also easy to screw up a routed network as well. Yes, you can take precautions, but I stick with KISS when I can and routing is more complex than switching. Shall we start listing the major incidents that have occurred due to routing problems being introduced to the internet? Ultimately, as John Jensen has pointed out, you should definitely have an OOB management system as well, however I would generally refer to this as a backup to in-band management. Generally speaking I don't recommend changing speed settings on a console port (when it comes to recovery situations, having to figure out if a console port is default, changed or changed incorrectly can be a pain), and even at 115k baud, console ports can be too slow (and many vendors default to 9600 baud). 

With data being flooded, there is now 160Mbps of data being sent out all ports on the switch. No performance problem at this point, but Computers02-20, Server22-23, and the Gateway are all also receiving 160Mbps of data that they each have to process to the point of knowing it isn't meant for them and then drop the traffic. 

In addition to Ricky's answer I would throw in a couple more: d) Generally software licenses are non-transferable, either requiring you to re-license or risk fines if you are found in violation of licensing agreements. e) The device has a status of "destroyed" or "disposed." This is often the result of "upgrade" deals where the owner provides documentation to the vendor stating they have destroyed or disposed of items to get reduced cost on new equipment. Not only does this make it impossible to get support on the devices, but depending on local laws this could get you and/or the original owner into legal issues best avoided.