The problem is you have two separate networks and are not routing correctly between them, if you have no technical need for two distinct broadcast domains, then the correct way to do this is to make one large subnet. First go into the secondary router, if your primary router is 192.168.1.1, set the secondary router as 192.168.1.2, and turn off it's DHCP service. Log into the primary router and make sure it's DHCP range does not include 192.168.1.2. Now connect the cable you have from a LAN port on primary router to a LAN port of the secondary router. Connect a PC to the secondary router by either a cable or wirelessly, and release/renew your IP address. You should be all set. This will fix all of your issues and allow the homegroup, sharing, and everything else to work properly. 

@AliChen seems to be on the right path, actually this is a good line of thinking I hadn't considered. I never checked the motherboard specs when I posted my comment. This board uses a NEC (now Renesas) D720200F1 USB chipset for it's USB 3.0 ports, which seems to need a firmware update for full compatibility with published USB 3.0 standards, more information is available here. There is also information on TechPowerUp forums on more updated firmware information for this chipset as well. Renesas does not offer the firmware update directly from what I can see, so it might take a little trial and error. Gigabyte seems to have no official update on their site that I could find either and this firmware is not part of your BIOS. Remember that anytime you mess with firmware, especially in older hardware like this, there is a potential of something to fail or go wrong. Just giving you fair warning, do with this information what you will. However the other answer of replacing the motherboard should be considered given the age and the relatively cheap availability of AM3/AM3+ motherboards that are comparable or superior to your existing board. 

I can connect to my private work network using putty and following setting: hostname: login.abc.com , port:5022, SSH Forwarded Ports: D8888 This opens an SSH socks proxy which allows me to access internal servers. I again use putty to connect to the internal ubuntu server using the above as SOCKS proxy. Now I want to get the server GUI using VNC , but I am unable to connect with the above socks proxy. I tried forwarding the ports , but since I am newbie to this I may have done it incorrectly , So how can I run VNC from my windows machine to access the remote VNC server? This article did not help me to connect using vncserver, rdp too is not working. The vnc session is on a different server accessible only from login.abc.com as a socks proxy. Note: I am able to ssh the internal servers using the above configuration using the login.abc.com as socks proxy in PUTTY. 

No sooner did I upgrade to windows 8.1 from windows 8, I found that I was unable to run commands from commandline like python, pip, cat,ls etc which are installed in the system when windows 8 existed. So how to restore those environmental variable settings back in windows 8.1? Update: Also not able to run commands after reinstalling the program e.g: "pip" was installed using windows binaries and yet the command line fails to recognize the pip command. 

I have a list of many zip files(with duplicate names) that need to be downloaded(maybe by wget) each of them contain a single file , I need to extract all of them into a single directory , but due to duplicate names there are conflicts which need to be resolved by appending file size as a unique identifier for the file followed by a number if there is size conflicts. Note: I use windows 8 , but also have bash shell on it. So which command can solve this? 

Change your router's LAN IP to a different network, perhaps 192.168.2.0/24, which would change your router to 192.168.2.1, and you should be able to access your modem's web Interface with no issues. Assuming your router uses the standard subnet mask of 255.255.255.0 (a /24 network), 192.168.1.1 and 192.168.1.25 are considered within the same network (subnet) so the router doesn't have anything to "route" to the modem when you try to access it. By changing your LAN address to a different network, such as 192.168.2.0, then when you attempt to reach 182.168.1.25 your computer will know it's not in the local network (thanks to the subnet mask) and pass the info to your router at 192.168.2.1 to router (gateway) to handle. The router will look at the destination and decide it needs to pass it to it's default gateway in the WAN side, then the modem should see your trying to reach it's web interface and respond. This a but simplified but should suffice. BTW, this is literally how I access my cable modem at home and is quite common. However, be aware most ISPs lock down their modems so users can do very little, if any, configuration or changes. 

Be aware that Linux Mint 17, 17.1, 17.2 and 17.3 will be supported until 2019. I am not sure why you are getting that message which is specific to the Hardware Enablement Stack (using newer kernels and libraries to add compatibility to long term suupport releases). Although 17.X is supported for the long term, it is best in most cases to upgrade and maintain the upgrade path. Be aware that 3.16/3.19 kernels used in LM17 are vastly different than the 4.4+ kernels used in LM18 releases. This is not a problem a for most users but should be researched as there is some incompatibility for certain hardware and software applications. The issue here is that you are using Linux Mint, not Ubuntu, and although Mint is based on Ubuntu... the upgrade process is drastically different and specific to Mint. General upgrade information is here. Detailed instructions from Linux Mint are available here. Be sure to read the release notes prior to upgrading. I would also recommend testing your computer by booting the latest version via USB prior to continuing. Although the chances of something going completely wrong are small, it is a possibility, and you should backup all your personal and important data that you may need prior to starting. Open a terminal window and set the scroll back to unlimited. 

I wanted to try linux mint on my computer so I downloaded the iso file from the official website $URL$ via torrent. The computer I used to download it runs windows 10. Now I want to verify the integrity of the iso file, but the instructions in the website $URL$ don't seem to apply for my case (being a windows owner). I know that before linux used to provide with the value of the md5 checksum, but from what I see that is no longer available. I could generate md5, sha-1, sha-256 and sha-512 using a windows utility. However, I don't know where to find the correct values to compare them. Using both mirrors or torrent, I could only download the iso file. Theer were no sha256sum.txt or sha256sum.txt.gpg files along with it. What would you suggest for this case? 

I had remote access from a windows computer to a windows server. The server's certificate recently expired and we replaced it to a new one. We also removed the old certificate from the server. Afterwards we verified that the new certificate had been activated. The thing is that in computers that had had access via RDC to the server, we still get the warning for the old certificate along with its data. When opening RDC in other computers, we don't get the warning though. My best guess is that the data for the old certificate are stored in my computer (and that of other colleagues). Is that a meaningful assumption. Do I have to worry about it? How can I get rid of this warning and have the new certificate display? I did restart the computer, in case it matters. The warning for the old certificate persists. 

Domain names are not related to ports, only IP addresses... In the "Internet" they are only related to public IP addresses specifically. There is really nothing in the DNS domain record that would allow it to point to a specific internal LAN server IP or name. You can setup 'mydomain.com' to point to an IP of 12.13.14.15 or whatever IP you wish, and if you have setup DNS records for various subdomains like 'raspberry.mydomain.com' you can point that to the same or a different IP address, but your router or server must port forward those IP addresses to the correct internal host. Do not confuse this with a web server's mapping, where it gets a request for '$URL$ and knows that maps to 'mydomain.com/web/blog/index.html' or to 'webserver.local/web/pages/blog/index.html' because it is explicitly implied in the server to redirect there, which is something completely different. The DNS record doesn't do that, but the http request contains the domain name url being requested. To be honest, in a residential or small business environment, your first solution of unique ports for various services to different machines if often the most feasible. In medium to larger businesses, it is often common to have multiple public IP addresses for mapping things to different hosts. 

You should use a battery that is recommended for your UPS by the manufacturer, or is a direct replacement for the existing battery with equivalent rating. Use of alternative batteries can cause issues with the charging or reporting circuitry of the UPS, and can even potentially be a fire or explosive hazard. Since you did not state the specific model and rating of the UPS or existing battery(s), this is the best answer I can provide. 

So how can a command line or a python script sort the above contents removing noise and only getting entries in alphabetical order like: 

Many a times we build dictionaries in online forums for typical words used in a forum, the user responds in following format in a phpbb forum term: defination hence the job is to collect all these unique entries eliminating noise , we typically copy the entire page and sort it to remove the noise: 

I wanted to get a list of mp4 files and its corresponding duration from all the folders matching the pattern below e.g: LO1/LO1.MP4,LO3/LO3.MP4 I tried following but I get multiple entries as well as I cant figure out the filename: 

I lost my tablet , but I can see that the tablet is connected to the network on my router: So I know the MAC address but I am unable to trace my tablet using this information and I am running out of time before the battery drains. I suspect it is stolen but at some distance as the signal quality shown is 17% while other devices show above 50%, from this I suspect it is either gone deep down something or is far away but still in the network. So how to track this device with MAC XX...BE:FB? I also get the IP adress of the tablet from the router but the PING to that IP does not return any response and is blocking i.e not returning to command prompt. Now the signal has reduced to 8% as shown in router, I suspect that the tablet is in standby power saving mode where does not allow much network i\o.