There is an extended test mode, invoked with the command line option , which does this. For example: 

The curl client isn't caching files, but the remote server network might well be. Try adding an arbitrary query string variable to the URL to see if you can reproduce it. 

So if the default config is a pool size of 20, out of a 100 connections total, this implies 5 distinct user/database pairs will have to each max out their pool size before they reach the overall limit. Conversely, if for example you're using pgbouncer to route to a single database via a single user, your effective connection limit is 20, not 100, so you have to set the pool size for that use case accordingly. YMMV. 

You can set up each group to contain states that work with states in such a way that they determine both what needs to be as well as what needs to be . It does however seem like a strange approach. Typically if you want to replace a node, you remove the old virtual machine altogether, and instantiate a new virtual machine for the new role. That way you make sure things are clean and don't risk arbitrary changes to have been made that might interfere with the new role. 

So basically this is what I have learned from this experience: Don't use the packaged version of gjc and then install other java on top of that (even when using alternatives!). I guess this could be the 'best practice' rule: 

I'm using tomcat's jscv to start the server ** as a service ** as the user tomcat (using jscv -user tomcat "lots of other parameters"). My server runs fine, however my question is: 

I like the other answers, but you could also try loop mounting all the RHEL iso's (on one of the servers you already have configured), and then serving them up with http - I believe RHEL lets you choose http server. This worked for me - and I could just let it go for hours and not worry about a thing. 

If you're talking about ESXi 4.x I don't know any ways to make a virtual machine not using the GUI. I know you can copy and move existing machines - or even deploy new ones from your 'gold' copy of your favorite OS. If you're talking about using the VMware player, again just use the GUI - it was made for a reason and it seems to do its job well. When you say "separate server using the vmplayer app" it sounds like you probably just want to install ESXi and run that... Please explain what you are trying to accomplish better. 

You can set up a state which checks whether the home directory of the user is in the right place, and if not, executes some commands that move it there. Something like: 

Here's a fairly simple Fail2ban configuration for PostgreSQL based on the HOWTO linked above but fine-tuned to actually work with Ubuntu packages, catch another error condition and skip over various debug messages to make it quicker: : 

If you're just using a REST API, it will typically respond from the IP address that you contacted, otherwise the HTTP TCP connection wouldn't work. But if you're actually using a service that creates out-of-band TCP connections back to your original client IP, or some other IP, then the owners of that API need to expose the list of source IPs to you so you can whitelist them, there's really no better way around it. 

By default, nginx will honor the received from the backend for its own proxy cache, see e.g. $URL$ So it seems that the best solution would be to change your backend to stop emitting these headers in case of errors. If you really want to override those 500s in nginx, maybe use proxy_cache_valid with 500 and 0 as the parameters? It definitely means second-guessing the backend, so it could have unintended consequences either way. 

To list all the files/directoires associated with that font package - this should list all the font directories. Hope this helps. 

The MegaRAID MSM is MegaRAID_Storage_Manager-13.01.04-00.noarch And MegaCli is MegaCli-8.02.16-1.i386 All of these packages are installed through the LSI provided packages. Any dependencies have been installed through yum, so they should be up to date. I find it hard to believe that there are no temperature changes (not even \pm 1 degree) at all throughout a day (as the temperature of the environment is not nearly constant). Everything else works properly so I find this odd. I should note that gives the same temperatures as - so where ever these utilities are obtaining their data from is consistent. If anyone has seen this or solved this issue I would appreciate some insight as to why these values don't seem to update. 

I personally try to avoid mixing a compiled program with the rpm ones- as they require changing where each program looks for components of the other (and env Variable setting). You may find it easier to compile php than try to use the rpm version - which you are most likely going to have to munge with for hours until php plays nice with the source-built apache you have. I think you may actually find it easier to build php than try to mess with the paths in the pre-compiled version - but I have always done the rpm builds of both apache and php (which works fine). Again my rule is don't mix local build versions and centos rpms - that is bound to cause you headaches. 

The current device attachment limits are described at $URL$ and for the currently most typical HVM instance types they include: 

At that point, if I wanted to destroy the snapshot, I first had to temporarily disable because of the bug described at $URL$ But even then, after seemingly successfully deactivating the nested LVM's volume group, the partition mapping for the nested PV, created by , somehow remained in use. The trick appeared to be that the device mapper kept an extra parent mapping using the old volume group name, like this in tree list: 

When packets come in via interface X, and are responded to immediately by the same machine, then your source-based routing rule can catch the response because its source IP address will necessarily match the rule. When these packets are subsequently forwarded via interface Y to another IP, that first part of the communication will work. But as soon as the first response packet arrives from this other IP, it will enter the routing rule parser with its own source IP address, not this router's. It will then miss the source-based routing rules, and instead match the default lookup, which will be destination-based as usual. What you will need to do is to mark packets as they arrive on interface X, with this mark persisting across forwarding, and then match that mark in routing rules so a different outgoing routing table is used.