I believe that you are showing client-side logs/debugging output. I would look at the server-side logs as that usually gives more detail about why the server rejected a public-key authentication attempt. E.g. insecure permissions on users home or .ssh directories. 

I suspect that gTLD supports the whole of Unicode. There is no single font that supports the whole of Unicode. 

The option to sets the time-to-live field in the packet, this has nothing to do with how many pings are sent or for what duration. IIRC the IPV4 TTL field typically limits the number of routers the packet may traverse (max "hops"). You should probably use for example would send one ping every 60 seconds for four hours. This probably isn't a good use of ping. The manual says 

ImageMagick needs Ghostscript installed in order to read PDF files. Ghostscript is a separate project entirely. is the 32-bit MS-Windows version of Ghostscript. 

802.11n is 600 Mbit/s SD class 10 is 10 MB/s (80 Mbit/s) However the former is a theoretical maximum (assuming 4 streams, 4 aerials). 74 mbit/s is more realistic with an ideal signal (no interference, no other nearby Wifi devices). The latter is sustained minimum write speed. Here's a graph from $URL$ 

Reading between the lines a bit, it kinda sounds like you could work with plain text if it somehow retained your formatting (and images, and links) … 

etc. Each CPU chip has an internal logical architecture, here's an example that shows one way of arranging shared resources inside a single chip. 

When you save a web page from a web-browser it should save the images too. In IE you choose save as web page, complete. The images will be in a subfolder and will be in jpg or png format - the browser deals with any encoding used for the HTTP data transfer. 

User-variables and the Hidden-Paragraph function. I positioned the cursor at the start of the document and from the "Insert" menu, chose "Field", "Other". I selected the "Variables" tab then I set Type to "Set Variable", Name to "Product", Value to "Foo" and Format to "Text" (if you don't do this the variable is assigned a value of 0) I then positioned the cursor within the first of two alternative paragraphs and from the "Insert" menu chose "Field". I selected the "Functions" tab and chose "Hidden Paragraph" and set the Condition to Product != "Foo" (meaning hide this paragraph if the Product isn't Foo) I then positioned the cursor in the second of the alternative paragraphs and repeated the process but set the condition to Product == "Foo". I repeated the above for all pairs of alternative paragraphs in the document. Finally, on the document "View" menu I unticked "Hidden Paragraphs". By clicking on the field at the start of the document I could edit it's value and thus cause alternative paragraphs to appear (and their counterpart disappear) throughout the document. Using "Export to PDF" had the desired effect of not including currently hidden paragraphs. OpenOffice Help describes it like this: Hiding Text You can use fields and sections to hide or display text in your document if a condition is met. Before you can hide text, you must first create a variable to use in the condition for hiding the text. To Create a Variable 

According to Microsoft if it is a local hard-drive, it will have a recycle bin, it won't if it is a network-drive or a floppy-drive (or presumably similar device e.g. SD-card). 

On Unix/Linux you could create a named pipe that has the name which the application writes to. You can create a program/script that reads from the named pipe and which writes to a regular file with a name of it's own choosing and which closes and reopens a new output file with a new name when it sense that is necessary (long pause in input?). I don't know if NTFS has an equivalent, it well may. 

A Host Adapter "connects a host system (the computer) to other network and storage devices" An Ethernet Host Adapter is a host adapter for Ethernet networking and is also called by a variety of other names such as: Ethernet Adapter, Network Adapter, LAN adapter, Ethernet Card, Network Card, Network Interface Card (usually abbeviated NIC) and so on. Ethernet is just one family of networking technologies, 802.11 or WiFi or Wireless is another family of neworking technologies, sometimes computers don't have this built-in and so rely on a plug-in card of some sort or on a USB-connected device. The term card is often used because early computers (especially personal computers) did not include built-in networking circuitry, this capability was provided on plug-in circuit-boards (often called "expansion-cards" or just "cards") which were plugged into expansion-sockets inside the computer. Nowadays most server, desktop and laptop/notebook computers have built-in networking but the term persists. 

in a command prompt on PCb I expect PCb is convinced that it's Eth2 interface is "nearer" than Eth1 to PCa. The metric shown in the output of is a measure of desirability of a route. It used to be a hop-count but it's best to think of it as a priority value as different routing protocols measure the cost of routes in different ways. You can temporarily manipulate routing tables using the command (see ) 

It may be unpalateable but it seems you want to download it in a format that is not CSV but which is a bit like CSV yet incompatible with it. It is possible Google does not accomodate arbitrary user-defined formats. 

I would expect it to switch to battery supply if the PSU cuts out cleanly, a cheaper PSU might drop it's output voltage and might cause the laptop to behave erratically, there may be data loss. This would be unusual I suspect. 

It is certainly possible. A visual inspection should answer the question. Gentle probing should prove whether the visible pins are loose. 

Each interface is electrically different. Line-in is explicitly designed to be connected to line-out (on a different device usually) and vice versa. These are high-impedance, low-current signal interfaces. Microphone-in is designed for connecting microphones, these produce much weaker signals than line-out and normally need pre-amplification before being fed to a line-in interface. Headphone outputs are designed for relatively low-impedance devices that use a much higher signal level. It would normally be a bad idea to connect a headphone-output to a microphone-input, at best you should expect clipping and distortion. I think some computers have connectors whose electronics can be switched in software to provide appropriate impedance etc for two different signal levels. 

If the example works, yes you can. You may in fact be running Windows and not DOS, which may change things. Can you explain what happened when you tried the batch file above? When you write "send function key commands" you might have something different in mind. If so it would be useful for you to explain what you want to achieve in a little more detail. 

From which I infer that your description is inconsistent. If you have an Ethernet cable being used for Ethernet which you can connect to an Ethernet port on your Computer, then there must be (the equivalent of) an external DSL modem (n.b. in some parts of the world I believe Internet access is delivered by Ethernet though perhaps only to apartments from a central area in an apartment building or in a UNiversity accomodation block or similar) This router expect one of 

It's probably quicker to just copy a big file over the sensitive file, but safer to clear unallocated space. 

"Device drivers designed for 32-bit versions of Windows won't work on computers running a 64-bit version of Windows." 

You can't. However if you want to be sure that a virus isn't causing problems with Internet access, just boot from a live-CD or USB. If that cannot access the INternet you may have a hardware problem. Preferably one created on a different and clean system. 

Although this example is for port 80 (HTTP) you can use socat to create a bidirectional relay for almost any protocol. You'll notice it shows it's Linux/Unix origins. I don't know how well The Windows port works on Windows or whether some of the options are unsuitable for Windows. I'd give it a try. 

For simple index transparency,iIn many tools you can choose a transparency option when you save a file. 

This looks like nonsense, or at least, very poorly expressed. Old PCs Old PC's had firmware that duplicated the functionality of IBM's BIOS firmware initially designed in the 1980's for use with pseudo 16-bit CPUs with less than 1MB RAM and, eventually, with hard disks which were initially about 5 MB in capacity. This BIOS firmware provided functions that the early operating systems (e.g. PC-DOS, MS-DOS, DR-DOS, etc) actually used to access the hardware peripherals (screens, disks, etc). Another part of the BIOS was responsible for starting the "bootstrap" process that ends with the operating system running. Eventually, improvements in processors, hard-drives and other hardware developed beyound what the BIOS could handle. At that point operating systems stopped relying on the BIOS to communicate with hardware, instead having their own native "drivers" in software. The BIOS firmware's primary role was then mostly to do with getting the boot process underway. A BIOS firmware typically expects to work with hard disks that are formatted and partitioned according to a scheme often referred to as MBR (after Master Boot record). This sort of firmware cannot understand a GPT disk. Modern PCs The firmware in any recent PC will be UEFI firmware. That is, the firmware will conform to the UEFI specifications. Such firmware is generally used in conjunction with "disks" that are formatted and partitioned according to the GPT standards. Backwards Compatibility As far as I know, the UEFI standards do not say anything about what firmware should do when the PC has connected to it some MBR disks as well as or instead of GPT disks. In practise most firmware that is built on UEFI standards also implement a means of understanding MBR disks and of using the BIOS method for starting a bootstrap process. This may be disabled by default. If enabled it means the UEFI firmware may automatically add MBR disk partitions to the list of boot targets that are tried in turn when attempting to boot. Consequence In principle you could use a UEFI compliant firmware to boot some GPT compliant removable medium that contains an installer that formats and partitions a hard disk using MBR that is subsequently booted using the UEFI firmware's BIOS-compatibility bootstrap modes.