Highlight Bridge Identifier: 32768 / 0 / 00:17:ef:74:62:00 to check hex. In the hex values you look for your MAC and in front of that you would see the 2byte for the decimal value of 32768 (32768+0). So something like: 80 00 00 17 ef 74 62 00 

In regards to route advertising you will definitely have an issue, as a route that is received with it's own AS will be dropped due to loop unless an admin does some manual configuration as for example AS overwriting. 

End election is validated when no more better (lower BID's) are received from neighbor switches. When the switches first come up, they start the root switch selection process. Each switch transmits a BPDU to the directly connected switch on a per-VLAN basis. The Configuration BPDU has the BID (bridge priority and unique device identifier) and it used during initial setup to find out who will be the root bridge. Lower is preferable. Recall the STP states: 

So basically a packet is traversing your router with: Source IP Address:192.168.1.35 Destination IP Address: 192.168.1.85 Your device does a lookup and verifies that to reach x.x.1.85 is via: 

Four different Link Type's exist for LSA 1: - Point-to-point (Type 1) - Transit (Type 2) - Stub (Type 3) - Virtual Link (Type 4) 

"Im also unable to distinguish between LSA used while forming adjacency and LSA types, as in router lsas, network lsas,etc. If the LSA types are only sent after the adjacency is formed, then how come the different packets used while forming adjacency know about the Link State Advertisements?" A/ Basically dissect the headers. Database description through LS type from the LSA header and Link-State request packet field LS type, both specify (example: router lsa, summary lsa, nssa). "If Router A has only directly connected networks in the database and hasn't received any LSAs from other routers, then how can it send the received LSAs to the other connected router, say Router B." A/ I'll elaborate with what I think is your doubt, if not please correct. "The router-LSA then describes the router's working connections (i.e., interfaces or links) to the area. Each link is typed according to the kind of attached network." pag127 Basically there are 4 Link Type's: 

You might want to look at your RRD graphs to see what's going on with blocked traffic, and/or examine what you have exposed to the WAN that could be getting beat on [that would be services that originate from the pfSense box and which might well be only intended for your local network, but which may have default (or non-default) settings that make them available on the WAN interface as well.] You might also want to consider moving up to 2.3.2. 

While it can work using highly directional antennas (which increase both transmission and reception at the AP for devices in the correct spatial region relative to the antenna, compensating for the limited antenna and output of the mobile device while staying in legal limits for EIRP) your "illustration" would appear to show a situation where it's unlikely to work. For success, an essentially radio dead coverage area is best, because the antenna gain of a directional antenna also picks up any noise source or competing wi-fi in the coverage area. So it works fairly well for coverage in a literal open field environment, not at all in an urban environment. Even in a radio-dead coverage area, putting the end use devices inside a building tends to negatively impact coverage in a big way. They are already hampered by a weak signal and a small antenna - adding another layer of interference and signal loss around them tends to make this unviable. Point to point links exterior to the buildings leading to APs in the buildings is the only reliable method - you might find some spots in the remote building where you get coverage, but you can't begin to expect coverage of a whole building. I have two APs with sector antennas in normal use serving outside open field areas with reliable operation at ~0.5 Km ranges, and someone I know has a setup with mountain-top sector APs where he's had to turn down to keep them from getting 2+ Km connections - normal use is about 1 Km, but to devices that are not in buildings. These are the exact opposite of urban installs - there is basically nothing there in the WiFi bands except our APs and the end-use devices. 

Strictly speaking LSA T1 has only area scope so say for example routers in A0 will all eventually receive the Router LSA, now for that information to be carried to other area like A1 you would need a T3. 

Therefore, twice the time of the forward delay (listening time + learning time) contains all these parameters. The formula is: 

STP is used when you have redundant paths in order to avoid an endless loop which can harm your network. Based on your topology A<->B<->C this is a straight topology tree hence the STP might not be entirely necessary. There are two types of BPDU's: Configuration and Topology Change Notification. Do not confuse both. Config Bpdu is indeed used during initial setup to determine the root bridge and the best path cost to it, additionally depending on the port role a state will be assumed, ie: forwarding, blocking. TCN will be generated if somewhere on the topology an event (i.e: switch down, link down) caused the path to be affected. 3.The switch you call root bridge will only be elected so if it has the lowest bridge id (lowest priority, else, lowest priority plus lowest bridge address) through the configuration bpdu. This will occur all the way to your last switch so that they are in synch on who is the root. 4.For a detailed explanation on TC's feel free to check this 

Withing your AS if you have link redundancy and the peering IP is reachable via IGP then you shouldn't have an issue. If by this you mean to routing traffic from one group to the other through the ISP there shouldn't be an issue as well as long the ISP is aware that certain routes are not available over the interface where it is receiving it, so if you are advertising for example a /16 summary then you will probably have issues as the ISP will determine in it's table that the shortest path to that network is directly connected. 

So you have both production and guest Untagged on the UniFi ports? That won't fly... The guest network should be Tagged as it goes to the UniFi, and the UniFi system should know what VLAN the Guest network is on. 

Comments converted into answer: Please spend a bit of time learning the actual terminology rather than inventing your own, which confuses both you and us. An SFP (small form pluggable) is not a connector. It typically HAS one or more often two female optical connectors as part of itself, but what it IS is an electro-optical transceiver. The 10 Gig ones are not SFPs, they are SFP+ The optical cable does not matter if it's the right family and clean, what you need to is know what the SFP (or SFP+) that you are connecting to at the switch is, and get one compatible with it. Clean, by the way, is a VERY big deal with single mode fiber connections. And the SFP+ you have shown (without showing the relevant part where the cables plug in) most likely needs a pair of optical cables, not a single cable. If it has two optical connectors, one is transmit, one is receive. Transmit at one end connects to receive on the other. I'd guess that 10GE-LR is intended to be 10GBASE-LR, which is 1310 nm lasers on single-mode fiber up to 10 kilometers, not a bidirectional standard. $URL$ The cable test tag on your patch cable showing what its insertion and return losses at various wavelengths were when it shipped from the factory is utterly irrlevant to the choice of the correct SFP+ - which seems to be your question, buried under a lot of mis-used terminology you need to learn if you have anything to do with this equipment. 

Finally got my hands on PT version 7. Yes indeed as pointed out by @Zac67 check the serial ports. From the file you shared and after changing serial ports IP subnet it will still not work. If you check both routers none display the letter 'R' for RIP routes in "show ip route", yet when you run "show ip protocols" it does say RIP is advertising for both subnets, it is even reflected when running the debug. If you check both routing tables, both see 10.0.0.0/8 directly connected. For some reason RIP is not liking this fact when updating the route sent from the other peer. Split Horizon seems to be the key because they are both advertising the same subnet 10.0.0.0/8, and as you know, this would create a loop unless a loop prevention mechanism takes place. Anyways I changed the subnet from the other set of PC's to 192.168.4.0 , added RIP as version 2 and it worked. The following link you can download the modified version of the lab. 

Router LSA consists of the standard LSA header plus the following below (I will purposefully omit some which don't matter in regards the concern): 

This is done due to the processing that RIP does with updates. For further understanding, class routing protocols as RIPv1 do not include subnet mask in the routing update. Nevertheless, the routing table includes RIPv1 routes with the net address as with the subnet mask. How would a router that runs RIPv1 determine the subnet mask that it must apply to a route added to the routing table? Here we have the rules to process RIPv1 routes: 

There can be overlapping routes which will cause connectivity issues. Usually a router will pick the destination with the highest bit matching precedence, in other words the route with the longest mask. 

It is better to be in the same channel as your interfering signals (if you can't find a free channel) rather than in overlapping channels that are not the same channel - if you are in a nearby channel, there is interference, but no communication. On the same channel, the spec requires some cordination to share the channel. Often your best actual bet is to run more wire, and place your APs at lower power nearer your end use devices. Using the 5GHz band is also very helpful as there are more non-overlapping channels in most of the world, and it does not penetrate walls so well, keeping neighboring signals out of your space (or at least greatly reducing them.) 

Likewise, a true "business class" router is hardly ever also a WiFi access point (and if it claims to be the one and has the other built in, I'll tend to regard its claims of business-class as bogus until proven otherwise.) Meanwhile most consumers don't even know the difference between the two functions. 

If you have a fiber scope (you really should, to check if connections are clean) the core size (but not OM level) is obvious by inspection, especially if you look at a known connector and then the unknown connector (or better yet, two known connectors, one of each size.) Image from theFOA.org 

And many boxes are far more limited, really - 255 VLANs picked from 1-4093 (not 4094) is the case on some of my switches. The numerical range is available but the switch can only use 255 individual numbers from it at one time. So far this has never even come close to being a practical problem here.