is for illustrative purposes - the actual formula is more complicated Is there a way to create the reference more directly, i.e. w/o going to the TEXT manipulation domain, something like: 

However, it is not clear to me why the "NOOP" command is not understood by the server. Isn't this a standard FTP command? 

I have TortoiseGit installed on my Win 7 machine. It generally work very nicely. Occasionally, some of the features seize to work w/o an apparent reason. For example, normally TG will show overlayed icons showing the status of the files and folders in a repo. But sometimes, this feature become inactive. I see only the normal File Explorer icons. In the settings dialog I set the and as the root context menu items. When right-clicking on a folder in the repo, I see these two options with the entry for the TG submenu, and can perform all the normal actions. But, when right-clicking on a file, I get only the TG submenu option, and when opening it, I get a very minimalist actions menu, that normally appears for un-staged files. Why is this happening? How can I restart TortoiseGit w/o restarting Windows? 

I am looking for a way to browse through a VMware virtual disk in order to extract/copy files that are located on an Ubuntu EXT4 partition that is allocated on that disk, without the need to actually restart the VM in the Player. This specific installation is screwed up, and although I can start the machine, many tools are missing there. Also, I already have another VM open, so starting a second one (on top of the host Win 7) will make my poor computer explode. 

After some further Googling with a more exact search phrase, I found this link which points to the answer. 

Select the cell where the first line of text from the file should be. Use the // dialog to select the text file to import. Format the imported text as required. In the dialog that opens, click on Uncheck the box. Whenever the external file changes, click the // button. 

will return the string . Other functions, like OFFSET() and more, expect a cell reference as one of their arguments. How can I tell the function to use the current cell's reference as an input? Something in the spirit of: 

Thanks to @IngoKarkat's answer. I found an alternative solution. Replace the block in the function with: 

I just received a pdf textbook comprised of some 20 separate pdfs (by chapter) with quasi-regular names. Is there a way for counting the pages in th book w/o openning each file (or going through the properties)? [solution can be for Windows or Ubuntu] 

When comparing git repo clones, I am annoyed by the appearance of the .git folder and its contents in the directory compare tab. In the Tools -> Filters... dialog, I have the filter in the list. Examining this file, there is a line for the folder: 

Note that the dialog appears before the actual gVim window appears on the screen. 1) Why is there a difference in the appearance of the two dialogs? 2) Where can I put the command so that the dialog appears as expected? 

Just after posting the question I realized I can try restarting Explorer instead of TG. So, I opened Process Manager and closed the processes running there. Then, I selected -> and typed to re-run the process. This fixed the problem! 

Many times when working on code, I search for the occurrences of variables with similar names. For examples, find all matches of and as: 

My Verizon FiOS DVR is connected to our home network. Is it possible to use it as a tuner for watching (streaming) TV programs (either in real-time or recorded) on my Windows 7 machine, over the home network (possibly, with an additional software)? If not, is there a Linux setup that will allow this? 

In a second look at the FireFTP options, I found the setting to disable this repeated "NOOP" command: 

Update: Thinking the problem might be with the PuTTYgen key format, I used on the Linux machine to create an RSA keypair. It generated a private key and public key. Trying to use was not successful, as I git the reply that "", so I just used . I then copied these files to the Windows machine, and used PuTTYgen to convert the private key to a PuTTY private key format (). Trying to connect using the new key, I get the response that "". 

I am trying to set a public SSH key connection from a Windows 7 machine to a Red-Hat Linux machine. The ultimate purpose is to use (PuTTY's version of ) from the command terminal w/o the need to type password repetitively. Following PuTTY's documentation and other online sources, I used PuTTYgen to generate a key pair. I then copied the generated public key to a file on the Linux machine (as far as I can tell, it runs OpenSSH server). To check the connection, I run PuTTY and set the username and private key file in the appropriate places in its GUI. However, when trying to connect using PuTTY's SSH, the connection uses the preset username, but I get an error message of "" and a prompt for the password. I then tried to copy-paste the public key text from PuTTYgen's GUI to the file, but it did not work either. 

I use an OpenVPN client to connect to my office network to run a remote control client (VNC, LogMeIn) from home. I think that the server is the Untangle OpenVPN server. My understanding is that while connected, all my internet traffic is routed through the office's internet connection (am I right?). Can I split the traffic such that only specific browser windows or specific websites will be tunneled to the office, while the rest of the traffic will get directly to the 'net? For example, I want to be able to remotely control my office machine while at the same time not to bother the office network with browsing Stack Exchange sites? 

So, I want to know if there is away to force the requested form with an "inline" attribute? I know that I can use a MS Equation 3.0 object, but I want to remain with the new, "native" editor. 

I am using LogMeIn to control my office machine (Win 7) from home (Win XP). In order to do that, I installed the OpenVPN client to connect to the VPN server at the office's intranet. The configuration runs smoothly but I just discovered that I can logmein to that computer even when the VPN client is disconnected or not even running. What is going on here?