I have recently set up a site-to-site VPN. Location A has a PC running windows 7 (we'll call it Computer1) that acts as a server for a point of sale program. The program uses SQL Server 2008 to store all of its data. Other PC's on that network serve as workstations that run the program off of Computer1 so the shortcut for the program on the workstations points to \Computer1\POSSoftware\pos.exe From the remote location where I am trying to access and open this program, I am not able to access any of the other networks PC's by name, so I am trying to use the IP address. My shortcut from the remote location points to \192.xxx.xxx.xxx\POSSoftware\pos.exe. When I try to open the program though, I get a runtime error saying that the network path was not found. I can go to the file explorer and type in the path "\192.xxx.xxx.xxx\POSSoftware" and access Computer1 by the ip address, and see all of the folders and files, so why is it telling me the network path could not be found? I can also open up Sql Server Management Studio on the remote PC And access the database by using the IP address. I have temporarily disabled the firewalls at both locations on both PC's. The VPN is set up through a watchguard Firewall. I can open up other programs over the VPN connection such as CCleaner and Google Chrome. Can anyone please give me suggestions as to why I am not able to open this program? 

I was not exactly sure how to best word my question above. I am trying not to ask a subjective question but I really want a little advice from someone who knows more about this, and have a few different questions. I am planning a new network topology and upgrades to the current network setup and began to look into firewalls. The biggest question I am having right now (since I am very inexperienced with networking) is whether or not connecting a firewall to the router is necessary. The current setup is "Modem, Router, PC's (some are wired, some are wireless)". We currently only have the windows 7 firewall's running on each individual machine and we are looking for a better way to protect all systems. The software firewall seems a lot easier to manage for me as I am the only IT person in the building and I have no experience with a hardware firewall. I am thinking about a setup as follows, "Modem, router, firewall, switch, Server and PC's". As I was looking into the SonicWall tz105, it began to look very complex and complicated especially for me since I haven't done anything with firewalls. We have about 15 PC's in the building that we are looking to implement this new network and eventually we will want to connect to one server from multiple locations. Although this can be a subjective question, is the initial setup of the firewall relatively simple if you have minimum knowledge about how everything works? We are looking for a "minimum" firewall that protects all of the PC's we aren't looking to do anything "too fancy" but the capabilities of the firewall I looked at scares me away a little bit, Dell offers a nice demo online where I played around some with the setting of the SonicWall. So, a recap, Should I look into getting a hardware firewall such as the SonicWall tz105 or do I rely on the router and windows firewall to protect all of the systems? Is a firewall something that I can setup in say an hour or so where I have a full internet connection with the firewall monitoring and protecting or is there a lot more that I need to setup before I can communicate with the internet? I know these questions are frowned upon but please bear with me, I don't know how else to find this information. 

Try increasing the uploadReadAheadSize in IIS as in the following example (change the size to the one that you need): 

It seems like they are trying to use your web server as an open proxy. As long as you don't see your servers responding with a , you shouldn't be worried. UPDATE: Although there may be ways to handle this with builtin nginx functionality, I found easier to install/enable mod_security and let him handle this and other nasty attacks. As you'll see in the logs below, somebody is trying to reach wikipedia through my server, mod_security knows that this this is an anomaly an takes an appropriate action (It returns a 403 forbidden response). This is an Apache server but it should be exactly the same in nginx. 

Assuming that both webservers are in the same network (not distributed across sites/countries), the best solution will be to put a Load Balancer device in front of the web servers, one of the best ones out there is F5 LTM, but as this is an expensive appliance, I would recommend haproxy, which is an open source software package compatible with most *nix based systems. Some useful resources for your particular scenario: Zero-Downtime Restarts with HAProxy Easy web server Load-Balancing with HAProxy Creating a maintenance page for your site So, you can put a Linux server with haproxy in front of those servers to load balance the incoming requests. 

When you find out if the space that can be reclaimed is substantial, you are ready for the next step, running Optimization Jobs: In Windows Server 2012 Data Deduplication, Optimzation Jobs perform the work of deduplicating data and optimizing a volume. These jobs can be run on-demand (manually) or on a scheduled basis. You can trigger an optimization job on-demand in Windows PowerShell by using the Start-DedupJob cmdlet. For example: 

The iptables rule is fine, but according to nmap's output I don't think that you have any service running in that port. Confirm that by running the following command: 

How Much Disk Space Can I Expect to Reclaim? When you install the Data Deduplication role service on a server running Windows Server 2012, DDPEVAL.EXE is also installed in the C:\Windows\System32 folder as an additional command-line tool. DDPEVAL.EXE can be run against any local NTFS volumes or NTFS network shares to estimate the amount of disk space that can potentially be reclaimed by moving that data to a Windows Server 2012 NTFS volume with Data Deduplication enabled. 

You should reach Machine A's port 5900 when connecting to the server's localhost port 6001 with this command: 

By default, Postfix only listens in the localhost interface. You must edit and change the line to and restart Postfix 

In your case, it seems like the package installer has already taken care of creating the dedicated user. 

So, If you wan't to gather enough data to troubleshoot blocked/dropped ports issues you will need to setup either a GMS/Analyzer (Which displays lots of information in a graphical console), or your favorite syslog daemon in a server. The procedure to enable a syslog server is the same as adding an GMS/Analyzer appliance: $URL$ Update: To get that level of detail with SonicWALL, you definitely will have to deploy a Syslog server. If you don't want to see anything else besides dropped/blocked packets reports, make sure to go to Log > Categories and uncheck all the fields except Network Access. To have an idea of what kind of information you can expect to find in your syslog server, take a look at this filter: