You might be right if all the updates to browsers were just bug fixes and tweaks to the original version. However, each new version adds more features which introduce more potential for bugs and security holes. Also, security and usability are often at opposite ends of a trade-off, and features sell more software than the lack of security issues. 

Sure. Just open two instances of access by clicking the icon to start Access instead of clicking the database file itself. Then within each instance of Access open the Database from the file menu. 

This seems like it would be obvious, but I can't find it anywhere on the screens provided when I log into my wireless router. Maybe I'm just missing something obvious here, but I thought I'd take the chance of looking stupid and ask the community anyway. Is there a simple way to see all the current devices connected to my wireless router? It is a LinkSys WRT54-G router if it matters. 

I have a wireless network in my home that consists of a 802.11g/b router connected directly to my broadband provider and several devices (Ipod, Xbox, Laptops, etc) that access the network over the wireless connection. For a couple of corners of my house I have a really weak and sometimes intermittent connection that I'd like to improve and am trying to determine the best/cheapest way to accomplish this. The question is this, with an 802.11n router do I get the benefit of the longer range when talking to an 802.11b device? It is well documented that I won't get the full 802.11n bandwidth, but I am only concerned about getting a few more bars at further distances. If this won't work, what is the best way to increase the reach of my wireless network with the constraint that the router can't move to another physical location. 

There are a number of console type applications, e.g. ipconfig, that output information to the standard output. The problem is that if I create a windows shortcut to them it runs the command and closes the console window before I can read the output. I realize that I could create a batch file with a pause command and then make the shortcut go to that batch file, but I was wondering if there was any generic way I could configure a shortcut to a console/command-line type program to leave the window open until the user explicitly closes it. 

Click the "information" button (circled letter 'i') on the left side of the address bar, or for a secure site, click the lock icon on the left side of the address bar. Find "Notifications", about halfway down the popup. (See the image below.) To the right of "Notifications", it should say "Allow". Click there and choose either "Always block on this site" (to have it never ask you again) or "Use Global Default (Ask)" (to have it prompt you in the future if you want to re-enable them). 

(Occasionally, it also happens a day or so later that I suddenly hear the fan of my laptop spin up to high speed and see my remaining battery life dropping rapidly. Looking in task manager, I see a process running with high CPU usage. Killing that process slows the CPU fan and restores the battery life to its usual drain rate. I have found references to the "Customer Experience Improvement Program" being the root cause of this, but I have that disabled on my computer. This happens rarely enough that I'm not going to spend too much time on it, but I'm guessing it's related to my main problem here.) 

A major reason to not use "Join" is simply to prevent accidentally joining someone else's network that has the same name as yours. This could be because multiple people in your area have chosen the same name, or it could be because a malicious neighbor is trying to trick you into connecting to his router instead of to your other one, thus allowing him to spy on your traffic. If you enter all of the settings on both routers manually, it's much less likely that you will connect to the wrong one. This is very similar to the reason that WPS "Push to Connect" buttons are bad security. If you and your neighbor both push the "Connect" buttons on your respective routers, then it's a tossup for which of the routers your device will actually connect to. (Additionally, in the WPS case, the reverse is also true - if you push the "Connect" button on your router and then your neighbor pushes "Connect" on his device before you push "Connect" on yours, your neighbor will be connected to your network without needing to enter the key.) Basically, the reason that these types of "Join/Connect" buttons are insecure is that any system that allows you to bypass its security for your convenience also allows an attacker to bypass the security too. 

Another key reason I think it is so popular is that it is considered a "Green" way of operating your data center, because it has the potential to use less electricity. And Greenwashing is a big thing for corporate PR departments as of late. In a typical non-virtualized environment you you have build each server with excess capacity to handle the peak load, which means that you have a lot of extra horsepower suckling on a power outlet just in case everyone decides they need to kick off an expensive request at the same time. In a virtualized environment, multiple logical servers can share that excess capacity under the assumption that the logical servers co-located on a physical machine aren't all going to get maxed out simultaneously. A second reason it is gaining steam is that it is riding the coat-tails of cloud computing. Virtualized servers are a core technology that makes it possible to offer many of the features of cloud computing, that not-coincidentally mirror those of virtualization. Cloud computing is a hot trend right now and chances are that if you are putting servers in the cloud they are virtualized servers. 

I am planning a wireless network that will involve a wireless radio modem that must be mounted pretty far from my house on a post (Needs line of sight to work) and then getting the signal back over to the house using an outdoor wireless access point(something like this, for example). Both the modem and the WAP can be powered by Power over Ethernet and I was wondering if I can chain them. For example, can I replace this configuration... Cat5 -> PoE Injector -> Cat5 -> WAP -> Cat5 --> PoE Injector-> Cat5 -> Modem With this configuration... Cat5 -> PoE Injector -> Cat5 -> WAP -> Cat5 -> Modem Is this possible? Also, Is one of these two configurations a bad idea for some reason? 

In case it helps, I am running FF 3.5 on that exact same OS and patch level and it seems to be working. If you indicate the error you are getting I might be able to help further. 

This seems like it should be so basic, but it apparently isn't very intuitive. The scenario: (1) I've inserted a table into a new blank MS-Word document. (2) I want to add some text outside and above the table. Problem: The table is butted right up against the top of the document and I can't move the cursor to a point before the table to insert any new text. I've found that you can do this by cutting the table to the clipboard, type the new text and paste the table back, but there just has to be a more straightforward way to put the cursor at a point before a table that is at the top of a document. 

Despite the recommendation to secure a private key with a password, you may run into issues if you need to do this decryption inside a service, like a webserver. In that case, you have three options: 

As @PeterT noted in the comments, the correct way to do this in chrome is using (and to force GPU rendering if it doesn't happen automatically). I just had a similar experience with a relative's HiDPI Sony VAIO. It isn't that these are "experiments" in Chrome, as much as just the fact that it is easier to enable them only on machines that require/support them. It would be nice to have the support for these features autodetected, but that isn't always so easy given the wide variety of hardware (and, more importantly, the wide variety of drivers) that are currently in use on different platforms. I doubt that the Microsoft applications has it enabled by default either - I would guess that it was enabled by Lenovo when they installed Windows on the machine. As far as Spotify goes, you are out of luck. Spotify does not have HiDPI support and does not seem to have any plans to release it any time soon. See these threads on the Spotify forum for more details. 

According to discussion the Linux Kernel Mailing List in 2001, was not built with support for the underlying code calls used by . I have not found any evidence that such support was added in the last 12 years. 

With the virtual machine turned off, open its "Settings" (either from Hyper-V manager, or from the VM Window) In the "Hardware" list, click the existing network adapter, note its settings, and then click "Remove" In the "Hardware" list, click "Add Hardware" at the top, then choose "Legacy Network Adapter" and click "Add" Configure the new adapter with the settings you noted from the old one. Save your changes and start the VM. 

After opening a "Windows Modern UI" Application, and seeing a flash of the blue Narrator-is-reading-this-box-of-text border, I realized that I should also check the full-screen Settings application in addition to the regular Ease of Access Center. I found that, in addition to the settings in the traditional Ease of Access Center, there is also an Ease of Access Center in the modern settings. Here, Narrator was somehow turned on. After I turned off Narrator here, I had to restart the computer in order for the change to take effect. 

MS Access is actually a combination of a rapid development UI tool and file system based relational database (JET). Pros: - Easy deployment, just copy the file out to the network and tell people the path to it. - Rapid prototyping and very good UI development tools for database type applications - Generally much cheaper to deploy, especially for small installations. Cons - Maintenance - You have to lock out all the users when you want to do DB compaction, repair or other maintenance. - As a result of using a file based DB, it is more prone to data corruption with a large number of users or with flaky network connections. - Although the number is debated, you are going to max out the number of users you can support with a single Access DB much sooner than with SQL. MS SQL Server is a Client-server relational database system, with no UI development tools built in. Pros: - Maintenance - Lots of tools for maintenance, can do most of it with users in DB. Thus, you get higher uptime. - Enterprise scale - it is designed to support a lot more users and scales better to handle them. Cons: - Expensive - For your 5 user app to keep track of a few hundred thousand items, it can be overkill. - More complex - All the extra features introduce a learning curve. - No built-in UI development tools - You will need another dev platform to build a front-end and (arguably) reporting. Actually, Access can work as a front end for SQL, but for a number of reasons DBAs tend to hate Access users connecting to their databases. Miscellany - Although you may hear otherwise, don't make the decision based on the size of the DB, make the call based on features and size of your user base. - Access actually is a pretty good UI tool for databases hosted in SQL Server. So the right answer might be "Both" depending on your needs. 

I have a Dell laptop computer issued to me by my employer with an Internal network card. I am considering upgrading my home wifi network from 802.11g to 802.11n, but want to make sure the laptop will benefit from the upgrade. Is there an easy way to tell if this internal modem supports the 802.11n standard, or maybe is there a way in the OS (Windows 7) to get the make/model of the card so I can look this information up?