From previous Friday until now (unless run on a Friday, then will be from previous Friday until Thur). (Excludes current Friday, if today is Friday.) 

I hadn't tried this myself, but I've heard others recommend it. Backupify will allow you to sign-up for a free account until January 31. They offer a free version which I was told stores the file on your machine, or you may choose to store your backup on Amazon's S3 for the normal S3 prices. I need to sign-up for an account myself to backup my online information. I hope I heard correctly and this works out for you. 

I found that installing/removing a lot of things into explorer (i.e. things that show up in the right click) can both slow and destabilize explorer.exe. Also, I found Explorer doesn't release memory well after large operations. For example, I used to copy large files (or large number of files) using Explorer, but now I use Robocopy. I think that help Explorer be more responsive and prevent memory leaks. Lastly, I found if I can't get rid of some explorer problems, I try to contain the problem by enabling "Launch folder windows in a separate process" in Explorer's Tools | Folder Options | View tab. This will make the Windows desktop and task bar at the bottom on one process and each Explorer window opened on a new process. That way, for me, problems don't have a long living process to build up in because closing those Explorer windows usually clears many problems. This isn't bullet proof, but it has helped me. The other thing that helps is not allowing every program that wants to install something in my right click to do so. I only install essential program or programs that I know are well behaved. I hope these tips help you. 

I believe if you are trying to run that command as written, the target machine will alway return your local machine name. By default works locally, unless you specify a remote machine with . Now, if the command you are running is , and you get that error, I believe the is not necessary. Here are some examples. Hope this helps. 

Just wondering if "Always show icons, never thumbnails." is unchecked. Also, I had some thumbs.db files get corrupted (for network drives) and on local drives Windows 7 stores all the thumbs in one central db at The cache is stored at as a number of files with the label thumbcache_xxx.db. I normally use something like CCleaner to clean the cache files out. If that doesn't work, I've had programs hijack the file association and that killed the Windows thumb generation. That is a little more complex, and I had a hard time solving that. Hope this helps. 

I've seen some people say all you had to do is add a command, but you need to add IP addresses to that. I’m not sure about using this. I believe you can also do this by using a proxy on your computer and have one browser go through the VPN and have another browser use the proxy and the regular internet connection (or the other way around). The right kind of proxy would allow you to pick the outbound connection to connect to for routing the traffic. Lastly, and I believe the easiest is you could use a virtual machine. Inside the virtual machine, you can have it connect to the VPN and use that connection. Outside the virtual machine, you can use your regular internet connection. There are some free virtual machine software like VirtualBox. 

I don't have experiences with data recovery services, but from what I've read this should be a minor recovery. I read, data recovery places have circuit boards for the various model hard drives, and if a similar make/model board is installed on the drive it should work. If the damage is more extensive, the motor or some liquid leaked in, that will cost more. I know after this you will probably get backup religion so I will skip the backup lecture. Good luck recovering your data. I think we all have been there. 

Configure that computer with a mail server. Have the camera email your Gmail using that server as it's email server. Configure that computer with stunnel and have stunnel proxy the SSL part of your email connection. 

I'm not sure what program may be preventing you from from running, but you may want to try running from something like Bart PE. That should be able to check the disk without other programs running, and if the check runs clean, that should clear the dirty flag on the drive so it wouldn't want to on each boot. 

What I've done to get files that changed that day was use Robocopy to copy the newly modified files to a temporary directory and then 7zip that. EDIT: Right from the go I want to say I'm not batch script ninja, but through reading websites I was able to kluge something together that seem to work good enough. I'm not a programmer, but I'm the "computer guy", so I just know more than most I work with. Here is the script I use. The date format is different than you asked for, chose YYYY-MM-DD because then things would sort well in Windows Explorer. You should be able to change that to how you want things labeled. The /maxage:1 part of the script is what limits to things what had change within a day. I run the backup script daily. One problem I hadn't fixed in the script is if no files have changed, a 7z file of 32k in size is still created (an empty 7z archive). I had planned to add empty directory detection, or if nothing else do a hash and compare to an empty 7z archive hash and if the match then delete the newly created empty 7z archive. In my full backup script, I have the script hash the archive so I can manually compare the hashes of the last two full backups to see if they are the same. (Having a script like this won't detect if files were deleted because incremental backups would show no files added.) If the current hash and previous hash are the same, I delete newest backup because nothing had changed since then. (I planned to automate is checking if I had time.) I hope cleaning the script up (removing server names and so on) I didn't break it, and I never had much time to polish up the script so it is crude. At any rate, I hope it will be good enough to get started down the right direction to a script that will meet your requirements. If you need any clarification on switches or why I chose the switches I did, feel free to ask. 

I've used Outlook Duplicate Items Remover, it is free. The down side is it is slower than I like, I have a very large PST file. 

The CCleaner settings get saved under the registry key With regedit.exe you could export that to a *.reg files. Then when you reload you could import the reg file and you should be back in business. 

My favorite barcode generator is Zint Barcode Generator, it can generate a lot of codes including Code 128, Data Matrix, USPS OneCode, EAN-128, UPC/EAN, ITF, QR Code, Code 16k, PDF417, MicroPDF417, LOGMARS, Maxicode, GS1 DataBar, Aztec, Composite Symbols and more. You can save the barcodes in PNG, EPS and SVG, and it is free. 

I was told by someone with an RV that when they got a dish for their TV they could pick a cost or pay a little more and get both (for when he travels). The dish companies won't offer this to home addresses, but if you know someone that can get a hold of one of those boxes, you may be able to get an east coast feed. I was also thinking if you knew someone on the east coast using a slingbox and an internet connection to stream it home to your computer or a slingcatcher. 

This should cover from yesterday 12:00:00 AM (midnight) to today 11:59:59 PM (midnight). Of course the above criteria doesn't check for future dates/times. If on the off chance you need to ensure no future dates/times are included in the query results the two queries below will filter those out. 

Also, you could have the camera email to a non-SSL (Gmail) account and have Gmail pickup that account's email. (Also, ensure you try both ports for Gmail 465 or 587, I have some programs that work with one and not the other. This camera may be the same.) I hope these tips help. 

I mainly user CCleaner to free drive space when the drive is running low and just before I defrag the drive. Doing a CCleaner just before a defrag mean the machine will not need to spend as much time moving "temporary" files around, plus the defrag program will have an easier time putting the non-temporary files in faster parts of the disk. I know CCleaner helps with privacy (cookie deletion), but for performance, that is how I use CCleaner. 

If you installed the Microsoft Windows Services for UNIX, the tool you install is probably to connect to a NFS server. After Windows 2000, to have a NFS server I believe you would have to install the services for Unix on a version of Windows Server. That said, I believe there are third party NFS servers that should work with Windows 7. Unfortunately, I don't have any personal experience with any so I can't recommend one over another. 

I hadn't tried this feature yet, so if VMware doesn't allow you to designate multiple locations, you could do some NTFS trickery like Mount Points, Junction Points, Symbolic Links, to make the program believe the data actually resides in that directory, but actually that directory is a pointer to the true location. There are many tools to make these links, but my favorite is Link Shell Extension. So, what you probably could do is after VMware puts the Shared VMs in the Shared VM directory, you could move the VM back to it's dedicated drive and make a symbolic link at the location and name that VMware put the Shared VM, and have the symbolic link point to the dedicated drive folder. VMware should be none the wiser. 

For me when I has a scanner that wasn't supported, I was in luck and I was able to use a virtual machine and load an OS that had a driver for it. You may need to jump through those kind of hoops if new OSs don't support devices you want to keep using. Good luck. (ps: I thought from their website that there was a driver, but are right HP didn't support it.) 

I've used SG TCP Optimizer to tweak settings. It did help the network speed overall, but I can't say it made a quantum leap of a difference. For websites that seem to stream slow, I've ended up increasing the buffer size so I would get larger segments without interruption, even if they took longer to accumulate. I almost wonder if it the problem may be the player used. Maybe the Ubuntu play can better handle out of order/dropped packets. 

If you home computer is a desktop. You may be able to connect connect the monitor to the laptop and have Windows extend the laptop to the second monitor. In addition, if the home monitor has multiple inputs, you may be able to use DVI to connect your home computer via DVI and have the work laptop connect via VGA and then you could flip between the two computers by changing the monitor input. I have two desktops connected to one monitor via to two input method. 

Cloning Windows with something like Acronis, Ghost or some freeware (usually Linux based) utility would be way easier. I believe the system image is a data image which may be able to be used as a VHD but I'm not sure. Here is a similar post and answer on a Microsoft site. $URL$ Hope this helps. 

If all you want to do is run program or open folders, you can make a batch file to do that. As long as that batch file is in the PATH (and doesn't conflict in name) it will be run by any command prompt. notepad example: make a batch file to open notepad called np.bat In the batch file write C drive example: make a batch file to open the c drive called c.bat In the batch file write There are also third party apps: SlickRun, MagicWords, Launchy, slimKEYS, Enso Launcher, Colibri 

If you have Microsoft Office installed, and you have an XPS printer installed, you should be able to print the PDF to the XPS printer. If you want to retain the image quality, go into the XPS printer settings and choose PNG - lossless. Then right click over the XPS file and convert it back into a PDF. You can pick the page size then (8.5" x 11"), so the resulting PDF will already be sized correctly. 

I'm sure you should be able to audit the delete events. In Group Policy audit for Object Access - Success. Then at the folder you want to trigger the events, set the Audit for successful deletion of files and folders. Here is a website that talks about that. When a file/folder is deleted, an event log entry will be made. You may have to search through the event log entries to find the specific file/folder of interest. 

FreeNAS or OpenFiler Both are designed for sharing files and both are free. I use FreeNAS, it is easy for me and I like the features. I say give them both a try. 

I would say the 10K RPM is faster. SATA1 transfers data up to 1.5Gbps. SATA2 allows for burst to be transfered up to 3.0Gbps, but after the burst I've heard many drive can't sustain that rate and are no faster than SATA1. The 10K RPM will help with the rotational latency seek times and getting the data faster. I think the only place the SATA2 drive will win is if you can get the data and burst it faster than the 10K can get it can transfer it via SATA1. Also, if the drive is going to be used over the network, like in a NAS. The only use for hard drive speed and spindle speed is to give you an idea how fast the NAS could scan/rebuild the drive. The network speed is so much slower than a direct connect SATA I don't now if it really matters. For example, my ReadyNAS NV+ came with SATA1 drive and is only wired for SATA1. I don't think that matters too much in the day to day because SATA1 (1.5Gbps) is still faster than Gigabit Ethernet (1Gbps) even without TCPIP overhead. 

I've used VMware ESXi for my hypervisor. To access the server you need to use vSphere Client to connect to the server. It basically is the UI side of what would be VMware Workstation. Connecting using the vSphere can probably be done just as you would any other remote desktop program. When you say it had to bootstrap itself, I'm exactly sure what you mean. All the VMs and even the ISOs used are stored is a common store. I never had the need to auto-start a VM after the machines reboots, so I'm not sure.