One thing you could do if you want to have a more stable Pi is to just use the SD card to boot the Pi and then shift to using an external HDD or USB device. This is common solution to SD card reliability, check here 

I have a circuit I am working on and I need to be able to detect if current is flowing through certain GPIO (breadboarding wires really), but I'm not totally sure how to go about it! Would I want to use GPIO pull up/pull down somehow or what? This google code page looks like it will be useful for learning that ($URL$ but will it solve my problem? EDIT: Basically what I want to do is be testing to see if any current is flowing, I don't need to measure it at all. I would need to run a simple LCD ($URL$ and maybe a few LEDs (not necessary) but what I need to know the most is is it possible to test to see if any current whatsoever is coming through. Thanks! 

Explanation: You'll notice comes up a lot in this script, it starts 4 of the 6 lines. That's the statement, or keyword, for print ing something to the screen. You'll also notice that whatever's within the area between the Parenthesis is printed. However, in the case of and , you'll notice the quotation marks end, and are followed by a comma, then a variable ( or respectively.) Like this: . This is one way, in Python, you can print data that a variable is holding. The commas insert a space while the variable tells what to print. And that brings me to the next point, variables. In the and lines, you'll notice a word, then an equals sign (=), then input. The first word ( or respectively) is the variable that the input statement will put its input in. In simpler terms, the first word stores what you give the computer when it asks. If you enter for the first question, the computer will store in the variable. 

That's a matter of personal opinion really. I don't know if Collabora will continue to post the development versions of Epiphany to their PPA, and I don't know if they are even going to continue being involved with the project at all. I haven't researched anything about the future development of Epiphany. Personally, I would leave the line in the file, but comment it out (put a before the line.) This way, if you want to download software from Collabora in the future, you can just un-comment and run . 

I'm trying to setup plymouth, launched via initramfs, on Rasbian Jessie. But I faced some ironic situation on my research, as plymouth is loading at boot (a bit late), even when I disable initramfs in config.txt, even when I disable the plymouth service with : It's obvious I missed something somewhere ... Did you see a reason why plymouth is still loading ? Thank you ! 

You may have to force the stream mode for your camera. First chek if MPEG or H264 is really available : 

To keep your developpement fluid, you may want to write your code for only one button, test it, then duplicating it for the other one when you are sure it's working. About your code, it seems you have some syntax errors : miss its , and then code just below is not indentated. The sections also lacks of indentation. For a better code maintenance, it's also a good idea to define variable name for storing pins number, i.e. or . This help to avoid errors, and allow to easily modify the code when you change the physical connections. 

Seen Steve's comment, USB already have a tighning system, 4 tabs per USB female connectors. Pushing them inside will tighten the connection. Sadly, only two of these tabs are accessible on the 4 USB ports RPis, as the inner one are hardly accesible, but this still should be enough to make things work better. You may find some practical advices to tighen the USB ports on this link : $URL$ 

I see 2 methods to solve this issue : 1 ) Find the root origin of the corruption The only case of SD corruption I met was linked to unwanted reboots, always power-related. Did your system shutdown when you plug the last HDD ? Are you sure that your USB Hub has sufficient electrical specifications to handle both HDD ? 2) Use a read-only filesystem: If the cause of corruption can't be identified, or can't be solved, you may want to use a read-only file-system. The aim is to use your and partitions in read-only mode. Putting your main system in frozen-state protect it from corruption. The whole SD card don't have to be read-only, you still can have a read-write partition made for storing datas (which still can be corrupted !). When you need to edit your system file (configuration of some service, i.e.) remount the target partition in read-write mode, do your work, and put the partition in read-only mode once done. If the protection of the stored data is important too, you may want to use a tmpfs partition (RAM stored memory), and sync it from time to time to a read-only partition made for storing datas (putting it in read-write mode for a very small amount of time, reducing the risk of corruption) Switching your system to read-only is a bit tedious, as you will see in the tutorial, you should make a backup of your SD-card once done. $URL$ 

part, it just tells me . Does anyone have any clue why this is? I've run and I'm running now, but I have no clue why it won't download those two packages. 

First Method - Easiest Use Privoxy This method is pretty simple, it can be used to do exactly what you want - Block everything and allow only certain sites through. From the configuration options page: 

I have recently messed around with Sonic Pi and I have got it to play MIDI notes (via .) However, I am attempting to follow the guide to SonicPi in the MagPi issue 23 and it told me to enter as my first command. I did so and pressed ran. However, I am getting this error: 

and changing the index from -2 to 0 via adding to the file. However, this wasn't working. The correct way to do it is to add followed by . Essentially what doing this is forcing the default sound module () to be disabled while the usb sound module () is enabled. What I believe was previously happening with just adding was that the module and the were conflicting, with both being enabled. 

This feature was available when using firmware from 12/04/2012 or later. However, this feature is removed from default firmware as of 18th March 2014. NOOBS still supports a safe mode, using the same gpio pins. If you are using a firmware version between 12/04/2012 and 3/18/2014 and wish to learn more about this, you can read a topic on the Raspberry Pi official forums and on the eLinux page. 

Simple! The issue is that pygame isn't installed, which is pretty easily remedied by running this simple command . I believe it should then work! If pip isn't installed that is also easily remedied by running and then the above command should resolve this issue! Log out and back in again, just for good measure, and all should be remedied! Come back here with a comment if it doesn't work! EDIT: Resolved it in chat, I just never updated my question :P Pip isn't in the repositories, so we had to go through a whole bunch of stuff trying to get pip installed and a whole bunch of lovely debugging and whatnot. Terribly monotonous and basically entirely useless. Turns out OP was executing the script with the wrong version of Python. 

I believe this is what you need. As of right now, I believe your code is attempting to run the function within SQLite, and I don't believe SQLite has that. EDIT: My bad, you probably can't execute a command within a Python SQLite command/connection. This should fix it: Correct 

When you made your script in , did you followed the syntax shown in the example file ? Did you set a correct file permissison ? 

I never used compute module with dual camera, but I can show you how to get your missing .dtb file. First download the dt-blob-dualcam.dts file in our home directory. 

About the software part, i strongly recommand the tiny program . Basically, it copies everything going through the HDMI output, /dev/fb0 (even disconnected) to one internal display, i.e. a touchscreen on /dev/fb1, via GPU. $URL$ Just launch it and stop it via a tiny GPIO interface and you have your switch :) Provided you found some wireless HDMI system, this should fit your needs. 

I think I found what you are looking for : In this exemple, we see that two switches are controlling one lamp, so toggling one of these switch will toggle the lamp. 

You may want to use . easily implement camera control and webRTC streaming, in a very efficient way, and quite easily. So your RPi will stream the camera on the network, while the computer will acquire frames from the RPI via opencv videoCapture class, as if it was a classic video file or camera, in order to analyse them. More information about uv4l here : $URL$ 

Well, in fact you need to track when your "rpm printing" function was launched, storing this event time in a variable (let's call it ), and continnually check this variable in your while loop. 

I was doubtful too about virtualenv, and quite happy to live without it :) Here are the commands I took from both tutorial you provided, for OpenCV 3.1.0 generic stuff 

As pygame rely on SDL system, we have to define the audio driver for SDL. This can be done with environnement variables. You can define it in your python script, but this must be done before you init pygame. 

You must also check that your hostname doen'nt contain invalid characters. Try to use one with only alphanumerics characters. You may also try these commands, made for live hostname edition : 

You may have to change or edit your plymouth theme in order to remove theses strings. You can look for less verbose plymouth themes with : 

Using you will see the current resolution and pixel Format for your camera. To define another resolution and/or pixelFormat, use this command : 

Once this list is updated, your system may find newer version of the desired package, with If no newer version is available, your last options would be to : 1) wait 2) build the program for sources 3) move to another browser that fit your needs, maybe ?