If the MTU of the outgoing interface is smaller than the packet, the router will fragment the packet unless the DF flag is set. In that case the router will drop the packet and send an ICMP packet too big message back to the sender. 

You are trying to ping from VLAN 1 (switch) to VLAN 102 (servers). The ASA won't forward traffic between interfaces of the same security level unless you explicitly allow it. 

I think the confusion comes from the difference in how different TACACS daemons respond. Cisco ACS may respond differently than your Shrubbery daemon or tacacs.net. Here is some more reference material, although not exactly what you're asking for: TACACS Attribute-Value Pairs 

I'll answer the second question first: When you use a VPN, you can get to all the networks your administrator has granted you access to. If you have no information on the topology or policies of your network, then you don't have enough information to determine if the servers can talk to each other or not. If you want to know, you would naturally ask your network administrator. If you can't get the information you need, it's probably because the administrator doesn't think you need to know it. 

The basic problem with this, and every other aggregation scenario, is how you will accomplish the load sharing. By that I mean, how will the host determine which link to use to forward the packet out of? There are essentially two choices: 

So you know what it is. Otherwise, you have to figure out what is the highest loopback IP address. If you have lots of routers, that could be a lot of unnecessary work. It doesn't matter much in a lab configuration, but if you have hundreds or thousands of routers, it becomes a big deal to keep track of them all. 

Then for each next next hop, convert all the network addresses to binary. Here is just the first one: 

You will need a switch that allows VLANs, and access points that are VLAN aware. A VLAN acts as a "virtual switch" isolating devices from each other. So you can create a virtual network (wired and wireless) just for the sound desk, and additional separate ones for your server and guest wireless. 

You don't have to make any changes to the router. You can use any port you've shown us, as they are all configured the same. 

Your explanation is missing an important piece of information: subnet masks for the router (and host) interfaces. But to answer your question generally, if I assume 24-bit masks: First, the routers need to have a subnet in common. That means the two interfaces that connect them together will be configured with IP addresses in the same IP subnet. So you will need to change the IP addresses on at least one interface. Second, you need a route on Router 1 that forwards traffic destined to the server to Router 2's address on their common subnet, and the complement on router 2. Your routing table is missing a "next hop address," which for R1 will be the address of R2 on the common subnet, and R1's address for R2. As an example, connect interface 2 of each router together, and change the IP addresses on those interfaces to 50.50.50.1/24 for R1 and 50.50.50.2/24 for R2. Next, you need the following routes: R1: 222.222.111.0/24 -> 50.50.50.2 R2: 111.222.111.0/24 -> 50.50.50.1 

Think of these items as links in a chain -- If any of these items fail, the chain will be broken and your user will not be able to communicate with the server. If you only think about the network components (routers and WAN circuits), you could still have a network failure (and then you have to explain to your boss why he spent all that money but the users still can't access the server). When deciding which components to make redundant, you have to analyze the likelihood of a failure, the impact if the item fails, the cost of a redundant item and the complexity to install, operate and troubleshoot it. In other words, you have to analyze the risks to see where it makes most sense to add redundancy. I recommend you create a table with the list of items as rows and the analysis factors as columns. As you fill in the data, you will begin to see where it makes most sense to add redundancy. Your analysis will have to take into account specifics of the application use as well as failure characteristics of each item. Here are a few things to consider: 

If you have captured the packets from a single point in the network, then the answer is no. You can tell which hosts are on your network, but there is no topology information that would tell you the route from A to B. If you have some prior knowledge of the addressing scheme, you might be able to infer subnets, but even that is doubtful. Switches and other devices that operate at layer 2 would be invisible to you (except for the ones directly connected to you). Imagine you were at the post office sorting mail. You can tell by looking at the addresses on the envelopes who is talking to whom, but you would have no idea how many hands it passed through to get to you, or how many more until it gets to the destination. There are systems/applications that map networks, but they do so by probing for devices, examining routing/forwarding tables on them to discover new devices, then repeating that process until it finds (mostly) everything. They don't capture network traffic. 

Not quite. NAT simply translates IP addresses from one set to another. As you use the terms, "public" means addresses that are globally unique and routable on the Internet. "Private" addresses are not globally unique and therefore not routable on the Internet. As NAT is normally used, your public address is the globally unique address that is the source address of all the packets you send on the Internet. 

No. In the 2.5 GHz band, the channel spacing is 5 MHz. That's why you can only use 1,6, and 11. In the 5 GHz band, the channels are spaced farther apart - 20MHz, so you can use adjacent channels. Note that under new FCC rules (in the U.S., of course), some channels are designated for wider bandwidth, to accommodate 802.11n and 802.11ac. In that case, there are fewer channels available. 

If I understand your question correctly, the NAT router translates addresses as data moves from the "inside" to the "outside." If traffic doesn't pass through the router, there is no translation. "Control plane" and "data plane" are conceptual terms. There isn't always a correspondence to hardware or software. That said, forwarding traffic is the function of the data plane. The terms ALG, firewall, layer3 switch, etc have no fixed definition. They get defined by the manufacturers and can mean whatever they want it to mean. But generally speaking, an ALG often performs the same functions as a firewall. TCP/IP can't read IANA specifications, so a port is a port, no matter what number is used. They are all handled (and translated) the same way. 

It's a trade-off between security and performance. There is no "best practice." Eveyone's requirements are different. 

Yes. The MAC address identifies the interface, not the laptop. Every interface will (should) have a unique address. 

From a high level point of view, wifi works the same way as Ethernet or frame relay or any number of media types. 

You are confusing routing with traffic flow. The routing protocol is used to learn networks from other routers. It does not directly affect the flow of traffic. If you want to block access to the host Server from 192.268.3.0/27, you want to block IP packets. So your access list would look something like this; 

IP packets are layer 3. UDP is layer 4. That means that UDP packets are encapsulated inside IP packets, not the other way around. Now, it is possible to tunnel IP packets, in which case you would have IP inside UDP inside another IP, but that is a special case. For learning about the protocols, you can ignore that for now 

Since you have provided little information, it's hard to tell for sure where the problem is. But based on your network tests, it appears that the problem is NOT your network. If you are getting "port open and close errors", then you likely have a problem with your application. You can ask for further help on Server Fault, since application issues are off-topic here.