SSL as already people pointed out is a protocol designed by Netscape in the past. At some point the IETF standards body decided to adopt the SSLv3 protocol as a standard one, so it got change very subtly and it was named TLSv1.0. So for most people, TLSv1.0 is almost equivalent to SSLv3. The reason people still call the family of protocols SSL is because of historical reasons - everyone is used to the name, so they keep on using it. It is quite possible for the VPN to be using TLS under the cover, but the marketing name still stays as SSL VPN. Since TLSv1.0, there have been two revisions of the standard and it is now at TLSv1.2, which while still compatible, has some significant changes. Because of the SSL/TLS design, both client and server can negotiate which version of the protocol they want to use, so clients using TLSv1.0 can still talk to servers implementing TLSv1.2 and vice versa. Considering the interoperability between all the versions of the protocol, there is no "making a switch", since they are the same family. It is a question of "do I need to use newer version?". As with any other area, the answer to this question will depend on whether the current version you are using has any limitations or not. Currently there are no problems with using SSLv3, but the majority of clients and servers out there work with TLSv1.0. I hope this clarifies the picture a bit. If not, let me know what is still confusing I will try to explain further. 

You will need to disable PCT 1.0 as well as SSLv2, as it is no longer used. If you follow the MS KB, then you should be fine. You can use ssllabs.com to test your server if it is reachable over the Internet. Also you could use the G-SEC tool for configuring SSL/TLS on Windows. 

The Require SSL checkbox should have 3-option radio button for "Client Certificates". What have you selected there? If you have it set to Require, then it will require client authentication and if you don't specify a client certificate, it will give you the access denied. If you set it to ignore or accept, it will not be a fatal error if you don't specify client certificate. 

AD Authentication Document Management and Auditing Self Service it looks like office so users will use it! 

I have office 2010 and Exchange 2010. I have send as permissions and Full access rights to a few mailboxes (System and Spam boxes mainly) with Office 2010 it adds in the additional mailboxes by default if you have full access etc. I use my desktop mainly for Mail etc, but sometimes need to use a laptop for console config etc and check mail. My problem is that it adds in the additional mailboxes in on the laptop as well. I suppose my question is can I stop outlook 2010 adding in the mailboxes on the laptop client. 

My first thoughts are if you are storing your archive backups onto a NAS and let’s says there is a natural disaster, fire, flood etc. You will not be able to recover your archive data. Only the data thatis stored on the USB drives as this NAS drive will be wiped out as well. From experience (100+ Clients using USB backups) we haven’t been able to do a full DR procedure with them. They all have been semi “Worked around”. All of our tape backup clients have been able to recover from a bare-metal recover in a maximum of 48 hours, and most of this time was waiting for tapes. I understand that you cannot go down the tape route but might be worth a little more education. Tapes will keep for years without the data being affected. If the hard drive gets a shock, dropped, too cold, too hot etc etc and there could be a problem. I know this raises more questions than answers. But these are my thoughts on the question asked. 

Vendors produce SAN equipment with their hardware because it works. Trying to build your own “SAN” is going to be a disaster waiting to happen. The reason HP, EMC, Dell etc have such a high price tag on there SAN hardware is because it is thoroughly tested, you get warranty (Normally 4 Hour Return to Service) You could never GURENTEE RTS if you used off the shelf hardware. I would persuade any person that tries to skimp on this and get the product that is proven. I know this isn’t always the best option for a business but can you cope with the downtime when you can’t fix it? 

Limiting the ciphersuites is not the right method, as they could be negotiated by SSLv3 client as well, which will result in SSLv3. The best way is to follow the article Robert pointed to ($URL$ and set the proper registry keys. Anything other than that is prone to errors. 

You are listing a .csr file for SSLCertificateFile. .csr files usually contain the Certificate Signing Request, which is not your certificate. You likely have a .crt file which you need to put in that directive. 

You don't have a server certificate to use with LDAP. This is exactly what the event log is telling you. Installing Certificate Service will not create a certificate for you, this is an explicit step you need to do. How to get a certificate for your LDAP server will depend on whether you plan to deploy your own PKI (using Certificate Services) or just use a 3rd party certificate. If you are not familiar with this, you need to do some research and pick which way to go. The former is harder and more error prone, but most flexibe and the latter is easy to get going but not very flexible. 

The AlertDesc field contains the TLS Alert value that was generated, which per the RFC is unexpected_message. This is most common when someone sends plaintext packet to SSL/TLS server endpoint. You can capture some network traffic to confirm/deny this. 

What OS version is this? I assume you are talking about LDAP over SSL when you say "accessing AD over SSL through Java". If you have 2k8 or above, you can put the LDAP certificate in the NTDS\MY store and it will ensure that LDAP picks that one versus certificates that match the machine in the LocalMachine\MY store. Take a look at $URL$ if you need details. 

If you haven't touched the configuration, strong ciphersuites are enabled by default. The list of default ciphersuites in Vista and Server 2008 is on MSDN. What you listed are not quite ciphersuite names, as they are missing pieces. AES128-SHA is just part of it. A ciphersuite has few parts - key exchange algorithm, encryption/decryption algorithm, and hmac algorithm, so the AES128-SHA example is missing key exchange algorithm. A proper name will be TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA. I would recommend ssllabs.com for testing publicly reachable web servers. 

This is exactly why you have redundant power supplies and dual UPS’s. If power supply A fails instead of the load being spread over A/B it is transferred to power supply B. Also most UPS’s can isolate each output so if there is a problem only that output is affected. Without knowing what UPS you have I couldn’t say yes or no if it has isolated outputs. As for UPS configuration you have got it spot on. No point in having 2 power supplies going into the same UPS as then the UPS becomes a SPOF (or single point of failure) so many times I have seen people attached 2 power supplies to a single UPS. If you don’t have 2 UPS’s the best thing to do is put one power supply into the UPS and another into the mails via a surge protected power cord. 

WHere are the Forwarders pointing to? Are they ISP or 3rd Party? If using the ISP's DNS in forwading zones add in 8.8.8.8 (for google public DNS) and see if this helps. It may be an ISP DNS issue. If not then you will need to post some more details on config etc. 

But this isn’t applying and the outlook client is still trying to filter the junk emails. Footnote. I am trying to disable this as spam is now being processed in the cloud and at the perimeter of the network and it is only internal mail that is being wrongly classified (mainly due to bulk sending from our ERP system) . 

This is very hard to answer in its current format, we do not know if you use a CRM/ERP. Emails etc etc. But you need to look at where the paper is generated. You cant just install a single app and think that all paper will go! We run a paperless office but I can tell you we still have paper in the office. Clients still send things in and certain things NEED to be printed by law. My suggestion would be take a step back, look where things are being generated is it needed? Is it just easier for the user, could they have a little training to help? look at the applications that you have in house and sit down with users and ask why the print it. We found a number of people didn’t know they could save email text into our CRM so printed it out and scanned it in! After training we cut our print count by around 2000 pages a month. 

Under ALL cricumstances avoid FTP. SSH has built in support for file transfer, so do not use FTP at all. It sends both credentials (username/password) and files in cleartext, so anyone on the same network can intercept all the data. Consider this is as starting point on your fun journey : ). 

Most likely not, if your certificate is not wildcard one (has * in the host name). I assume your hosts are actually named differently, right? The only way I can think of will be able to use it is to terminate TLS on a load balancer put in front of the multiple sendmail hosts. Of course all of the above is predicated on the clients doing real verification on the certificate. If they ignore the name mismatch issue, then you can use it without a problem, but it will get you no real security, as MiTM can intercept such connections. 

I would say that the VPN can be considered defense in depth. Look at all the recent attacks against SSL and HTTPS, which render the communication breakable. If you have a VPN between the sites which is not SSL based, then you are just adding another layer of defense. Also, if they want to extend past HTTPS in the future (and they most likely will, everyone does), then the VPN can accommodate that. I would second Alnitak's suggestion to do mutual auth with SSL, so that will require certificates on both sides. 

You are correct that the Microsoft implementation does not include TLS-PSK. I am not aware of any way to accomplish this, since IIS relies on Schannel. Schannel has a pluggable model, but it is only for cryptographic functions. That does not allow introducing new handshaking mechanisms. 

The following two links have some detailed information on the SupportedEncryptionTypes configuration for Kerberos: $URL$ $URL$ In general, you need to have common algorithm between the KDC and your Windows machines. If you are running more recent version of MIT Kerberos, you should have AES support, but if your KDC is older one, you would need to use DES to interop. @tommed is correct that DES is disabled by default in Win7, but it should work fine on Vista. Alternatively, capture the network traffic between the KDC and your client machine and look at what the client is offering and look at the KDC config to ensure you have at least one of the crypto algorithms in common. 

ESXi Host You should configure your hosts to sync with a Time source. This will enable logs and other events to be at the correct time. Some things that are included in the Host logs Snapshot operations Resuming of suspend vMotion Virtual Machine If the VM's are all windows an on a Domain set your PDC to sync with a time source (ideally the same one as the Hosts). If not I would set them to sync via W32TM, but to the same NTP Master. 

A service like LogMeIn or GotoMyPc will be the best option in this situation. They use encrypted SSL over http to connect directly to the server. You will then be able to connect from your laptop and can lock this down. 

Even though this is a shopping question I feel inclined to answer. Peli-cases are the best thing for this situation. They make a case that fits 20 LTOs with foam slots. They are fully sealed, and available worldwide. They have holes for padlocks and are reasonable priced. 

Yesterday we got hit by a barrage of spam around 250/Min and caused our exchange queues to go a bit spazzy (in a technical sense) I stopped mail at our External relay so we could get this back under control. Once the exchange server stabilised and I had killed most of the spam at the relay I allow mail to flow again (and its working finer now) But my issue is that: I have noticed that there are 110 messages stuck in the in a Suspended state and a few in retry state. These are all spam messages but when I try and remove them the tool does not appear in the GUI. I can use the power shell command to see the queues but when I try and drill down I cannot get into the Submission queue only our SMTP connector. This is Exchange 2010 SP2, 

When you create a snapshot on a VM this creates a Delta Disk and the operating system writes to this file instead of the original VMDK. This file is called VM_Name-Delta.VMDK but if the system needs to refers to a file before the snapshot it will refers to VM_Name.VMDK increasing the I/O of this operation. If you take multiple snapshots you are referring to the last delta file of the last snapshot not the original VMDK thus increasing I/O. 

Have you tried looking at a network sniff to help diagnose the issue? One big difference between Win7 and XP is that 7 sends TLS extensions, which could cause some servers to not succeed in negotiation of SSL/TLS connection. Have you tried the software against different servers running different software? It could also be related to ciphersuites offered by the OS. Really, a network sniff can help you answer a ton of questions. If you manage to get one of the working case and failing case, post it publicly and I can help you look into it. 

You can get a free cert from $URL$ for your site. With self-signed certs, you will always get a warning unless it is in the trusted root certificate store as GregD pointed out. There is no other way to verify a self-signed cert. In a sense, all CA roots are self-signed certificates your machine trusts, but they also have the ability to sign other certs, so that is how certificate chains work. 

Fire up network sniffer and capture the traffic from the browser to the servers. It will show you what is attempted to be loaded over HTTP vs HTTPS. The browser might be misleading and the network traffic is after all the authoritative source of data for the browser. Alternatively, you can provide the URL if the site is public. 

If you are getting a client certificate error, then you should look on the client side. Make sure your client has all the intermediate certificates in the chain present and is sending it to the server. If the server has no other network connectivity, ensure that the intermediates are also present on the server side, so it can build and validate the client certificate chain. I would suggest using Wireshark or other network tracing tool to capture the traffic and look at what is going on. If the client authentication is done through renegotiation (aka second handshake encrypted using the existing session), then look at the size the messages to judge whether the entire client chain is being sent over or just part of it.