I know the http is stateless protocol? but HTTP uses TCP which is connection-oriented protocol. so can I say http is a connection-oriented and stateless protocol? 

I have connected to a wifi network i have assigned with an ip:192.168.5.125 subnet:255.255.240.0 . but my gateway is in 192.168.0.1 how could this possible? And i have observed my friend's ip he also connected to the same wifi network. he got 192.168.1.28 and he also have the same gateway 192.168.0.1. And I could able to ping him also. How come this possibe? 

In a job interview i had faced a question that In my company we always use udp because it is very much fast. and we have reliability also. can u answer how? without adding so much overhead to the udp how can you make udp reliable? 

I know how arp poisoning works in the LAN environment and I know that routers also contains mac-address tables with the neighbouring router's mac-addresses, that means routers exchange arp frames. So is there any possibility to send the arp poisoning attack to ISP level? Till now is there any attacking techniques exists regarding arp poisoning in WAN. If not how the attackers are doing man-in-the-middle attacks & what is the security mechanism the routers use to stop these attacks? 

Per-prefix labeling is used for this VRF on both routers. Notice that the two directly connected routes receive a shared aggregate label (95) whereas the four static routes each receive a unique label. Router B agrees on the VPN labels to use: 

It's important to note that any classifications you define need to match what your WAN provider supports. Most providers offer only a handful of pre-configured QoS profiles from which you must choose which best suits your needs. You can classify however you'd like on incoming traffic at the WAN edge, but the provider's QoS controls are what control the the treatment of traffic during transit across the WAN. 

I typically set up such DMZ switches with a dedicated management interface with layer two access to the inside network, so that management access bypasses the firewall entirely. Since the 2950 does not have a dedicated management interface, you could simply designate a separate VLAN for management, configure its SVI, and assign to an access port which connects to the inside network. This ensures that you will have access to the switch in the event of a firewall failure for troubleshooting. (Note that Internet access from the switch will go through the inside network, the firewall, and pass back through the switch itself; it will not have direct outside connectivity.) 

Router-target import/export is necessary to determine which prefix belongs to which VRF (customer). So when BGP sending update, also include extended community depends on route-target export. And when particular PE router received that BGP update. He can easily recognize to which VRF prefix belongs, depends on route-target import. For above image from Wireshark, extended community has been included by PE router (10.0.0.3) depends on route-target export (red box). And will be included into appropriate VRF by another PE router (10.0.0.4) once he received that update, thanks to route-target import. When you will be familiar enough with above. You can study more advance features, like route leaking between routing tables, etc... I created simple MPLS network, so we can make some practical examples. (Topology contains only one customer CUST_A) 

Another thing is that when I get "connected to" message on Citrix host it isn't possible to send anything through it. I mean If I try to hit enter or any other key the session is imidiately closed. You can also see it in the picture above. This isn't currently affecting our network, but I'm simply wondering why it's happening. I have never seen it before. Bug, feature or Malware? Drawing for a better understanding: 

Iam using linux.I read somewhere in the internet that pinging the 255.255.255.255 will ping everyone in the network segment. And it will return every ip addresses in that subnet. but when i tried 

I am confused with the Circuit switching and Virtual circuit approaches. In which layers the Circuit switching works ? In one book there is a line "we will not use destination address in circuit switching" my doubt is that at first time during call setup phase the sender should address the destination to NCC(network control center) if not how it will know? In todays internet, are we Using the Circuit switching? can this Circuit switching technology works in store and forward switches? What is the switching Technology used in todays Telephone networks? Dedicated path means what? is the whole wire dedicated or the only one channel in the wire is dedicated in circuit switching? 

Now my doubt is why can't we directly interact with the IP layer from application layer.If we interact what would be the problem that we face? Why can't we implement process-process communications & reliability everything in application layer? Is the high level languages doesn't support to implement protocols? 

I have two sites, A and B, in BGP AS 65000, and a third site, C, in AS 65001. All three sites have connectivity via carrier MPLS and there is internal connectivity between sites A and B. I am trying to influence BGP so that traffic from site A to site C will be routed via site A's MPLS link, and traffic from site B to site C will route via site B's MPLS link. The topology is similar to what is described in this example. 

"Yes, it's completely impact-free.* *Your experience may vary." That's the impression I get from Cisco and the Nexus platform in general. As a general rule, I always try to secure a maintenance window for work on critical infrastructure as a CYA measure. Even if it works flawlessly 99% of the time, there's still that 1% that it won't, and "But Cisco told us it would be fine" does little to placate angry customers. 

But it is not very helpful to be honest, because it is not override configuration stored in NVRAM. So I was thinking about EEM applet to deny user perform copy run start and write memory. But users can easily remove EEM applet if they have access to configuration mode, aren't they? :-) Let me put the second question. Can I somehow use privileged in order to deny using of few configuration commands? But if user has access to configuration mode there is no way how to do that probably. I know, my question is not straightforward at all. I am just wondering whether I am able ensure that startup configuration (including management IP address and SNMP string) is always loaded after reload of router and overrides configuration created by user. I can not trust to users and be sure they will use only Linux script to save their configuration to their home folders and not copy running-config to startup-config. I need to be sure it will be foolproof. Thanks a lot for any idea, much appreciated. Daniel 

The difference might simply be attributable to differing processing hardware or even temperature sensor locations. 

When configuring ZBFW on IOS, the "class-default" class doesn't allow the inspect action (only pass and drop). What is the recommended way to match all traffic for stateful inspection? Matching TCP, UDP, and ICMP seems to work fine, but this doesn't seem ideal: 

You only need one or the other; here you've used both. It seems that the redistribution command takes precedence over the network command so the route is appearing as static routes. Remove 'redistribute static' and the route should appear as internal. 

Is there a way to filter the control plane of the firewall so that these packets are dropped at the interface edge rather than processed and rejected? This would be done with a simple interface ACL on a Cisco router or ASA, but I'm not sure how to go about this on ScreenOS. 

BGP sends KEEPALIVE packets in specified interval (60 seconds by default). If BGP not received 3 keepalive packets from neighbour, HOLD DOWN timer expires and the neighbour is considered as dead. Assuming the neighbor is down, shutting down the BGP session, and withdrawing all routes from it's announcements. HOLD DOWN timer, it's three times KEEPALIVE (180 seconds by default). When link between BGP peers came back to life (physically) and neighbours received KEEPALIVE packets the session is automatically UP. Peers starts advertise their routes in announcements, according to specified criteria. You don't have to reconfigure BGP session again. It would not make sense, because in real environments, BGP session fails quite a often. 

I can't see prefix 192.168.0.0/24 in BGP VPNV4 table of PE_2 and in routing table of CE_2 router as well. 

It seems to me like switch removes all MAC addresses from CAM for particular interface, when computers are changed. But this does not happen when dot1x is not configured on the port. In this case, IP phone doesn't reboot. It has to have something with dot1x. Do you have any idea how to fix it? Many thanks. Dan