You could set a port in monitor mode (I.E. set it as a span port) then use an external device to capture and analyse traffic. extract from Cisco Security Appliance Command Reference, Version 8.0 

Right, more specifically, they copy the signal on all ports except the one the signal was received on 

There's a tool widely used for testing networks : iperf With the option you can open a great number of flow simultaneously. There's a default max of 128 for this option, but there's no hard limit. You can change this value editing the file. 

If you don't configure anything else, yes actually only the router is aware of its loopback address. You have indeed to inform other routers about this address. You do so with the help of routing protocol, like , or . The loopback address is announced to the other routers on several interfaces so the other routers always know how they can reach it. 

The last packet is received in about a ms, and this doesn't change much the calculated value. In other word, it is negligible. Note that, anyway, actual communication in a network use various protocols, each of which has some kind of overhead that will impact the actual throughput. 

since most (all?) modern Cisco switches have 16 vty lines and not 5. You may also want to add access lists (ACLs) to allow only SSH traffic (and maybe SNMP and ICMP) destined to the switch. 

First, POE can be used on Ethernet cables at the full maximum cable length, which is 100m / 328ft (90m (295 ft) of solid "horizontal" cabling between the patch panel and the wall jack, plus 5 meters (16 ft) of stranded patch cable between each jack and the attached device). I guess your issue is not POE but the Ethernet max distance. Second, although CAT5e is still doing a great job, it's time to consider CAT6A. Structured cabling, especially in a large building, is a huge investment that is supposed to last for 20 years. It is really, really not the thing you should restrict budget on. I strongly advise consulting a specialized firm to do it. Home made cabling will lead you to many issues that will cost you much more than having it done correctly from the beginning. Back to the question itself, the solution really depends on the building topology. A typical way to solve great length issue is to have several distribution cabinets within various place in the building and have those cabinets linked together or to a central IT room with fibers links (which are really more future-proof than copper). 

Your ISP uses Carrier Grade Nat (CGN) as defined in RFC 6598 As you can see in the RFC the network 100.64.0.0/10 (which encompass your IP 100.127.85.X) is reserved for CGN, so while not a private network (as defined in RFC1918), it is used in the same way and is no longer a publicly routable network. So you get a CGN IP address assigned to your device, and the ISP perform NAT with a globally routable address somewhere in its network. 

First you are confusing protocol and ports. Assuming you want to use IPSEC , you have to allow / forward: UDP port 500 protocol 50 (ESP) protocol 51 (AH) 50 and 51 are protocols numbers and not ports Furthermore if you are using NAT between your upstream router and the pfsense, the connection will use NAT traversal on UDP 4500 as well as UDP 500. In this case you don't need to forward protocols 50/51 since they will be encapsulated in UDP. For the question itself, there's nothing special to do on the upstream router, you just have to configure the VPN on the Pfsense. Of course the pfsense must be able to reach the internal network you want to give access to. 

Most of Internet traffic is TCP. TCP has a mechanism to prevent congestion, the sliding window. So if you drop exceeding inbound traffic on the router, the receiving host in your network will tell the emitter to reduce it's sending rate and the effective incoming bandwidth usage will be reduced. This is off course not true for non-TCP traffic (mostly UDP). In such cases, there's usually a percentile rule. In my company, we do have the same setup, with 10Gbs physical links and we pay for only 1Gbs, with a 95% percentile rule. I.E. we can burst traffic to 10Gbs, it it happens less than 5% of the time we don't pay for this traffic. The additional fee only occur if we use more than 1gbs for more than 5% of the time. Additionally if you shape the traffic to something a little bit smaller than 50Mbps you leave more room for incoming UDP traffic. In my case, with the traffic shaping put in place on our routers, we never had additional fee in 3 years, but admittedly, it is far easier to go over 50Mbs second than 1gbs, so this is much more likely to happen in your case. You need to verify with your ISP if you have such a percentile rule in place. If not, you need to ask them to shape the traffic their side. 

The error lies in your subnets 172.16.0.145 with subnet mask 255.255.255.224 give you a network 172.16.0.128/27 The network you set on VLAN 2 is a subnet of the one you try to set on VLAN3 , so the overlap. EDIT in response to the comment The network 172.16.0.128/27 can be subnetted in 2 networks 

"double NAT" is not an industry standard term, but from your description and your comment it seems your ISP use Carrier Grade NAT (CGN) as defined in RFC 6598. In this case the ISP provides to your router a "CGN" IP address (either an RFC1918 address or an address from 100.64.0.0/10) and then perform NAT in its network to a globally routable (I.E. public) IP address. In order to assign you a static IP address it has to configure an inbound NAT rule (I.E. forwarding) for all traffic sent to the public IP address that was assigned to you to the CGN IP address of your router (which is likely fixed). 

224.0.0.251 is the multicast (and not broadcast) address used by the apple Bonjour protocol but also by the associated multicast DNS (rfc6762) So there's two cause of traffic sent to this multicast address: 

You need to split your network in smaller, isolated (by VLAN) subnets, and use enterprise class access points (preferably WAVE2) to handle a great number of Wifi clients. 

VxLAN can perform what you needs. Basically, it's VLAN encapsulation in IP (UDP) packets. If your routers do not support it you can insert VxLAN gateway in front of them. 

so your password are encrypted in a secure way. The "password" encryption method is kept for compatibility purpose but it is not secure at all (you can find on line tool to decrypt such passwords). 

So you can use those two subnets on VLAN2 and VLAN3 but not the original network and one of its subnet. Change your subnet mask to 255.255.255.240 and you will have no overlap. If you need a bigger subnet (for more than 14 hosts) then you need to use the next-available /27 network which is 172.16.0.160/27 (I.E. 172.16.0.160 with subnet mask 255.255.255.224) Edit 2 in response to other comment to subnet the /26 to a /27 plus two /28 you can use 

Zac67 answer is spot on, but I would emphasis on the temperature issue. The fact is the main impact of the storm on the hardware is the load, which increase the temperature of the components. If cooling is inadequate it could, in extreme cases, damage the hardware. Most enterprise-grade devices have at least one internal temperature sensor, so I would check if those are properly monitored and what are the current temperature as well as the increase during the incident. An overheating should also be notified in the device logs. 

The default serial settings in Putty are not adapted to connect to a Cisco device. Try those settings : (I.E. change Flow control to "None") 

The issue is that your router doesn't perform NAT for the network pertaining to VLAN 227 You need to add a NAT rule with: 

1 - the setup make sense, but there's one potential issue: The ISP provided CPE may not NAT networks others than 192.168.1.0/24 to the Public IP address. I.E. it will not perform NAT for the 3 subnetworks. If this is the case, you may have to NAT those 3 networks with IP from the 192.168.1.0/24 network. (btw there's a discrepancy between the text and the schema where it is noted as , I assume the correct one is /24 as it is the most common case) 2 - For DHCP 

Those ports are used by Windows (for Netbios and SMB) and are by default opened for the local lan only in Windows Firewall. (Could be the same on a third-party firewall) So this it the firewall than block connection to those ports coming from the VPN. 

I would go with VLAN at the OS level. I suppose the students don't have administrative privilege on the operating system. If so you can configure 2 virtual adapters in the operating systems, one for the desktop access to the internet and the other connected to the VM. With proper VLAN filtering the student should not be able to mess up things. 

Note that the MX104 support frames up to 9192 bytes. 60mpps of 9192 bytes frames give you a max bandwidth of 4420 / 2210gbps (bidirectional / unidirectional) 60Mpps of 64 bytes frames give only 37/18,5 gbps. If we are stuck with standard Ethernet MTU of 1500 we get something around 730/365gbps 

The basis of routing is that the more specific match is the primary criteria. So the /23 prefix will be preferred. eBGP is used to exchange routes between AS. How routing is performed inside an AS is up to the owner of the AS, he can do whatever he wants, even static routing (or even iBGP). 

(m)LACP and vPC are Layer 2 technologies, thus they don't apply to layer 3 interfaces At layer 3 you use for example VRRP (to provide gateway to hosts) or routing protocols (like OSPF) to achieve redundancy and automatic switchover. 

will borrow the loopback 5 IP address to use it on the GigabitEthernet0/0 interface as a next hop for the neighbor router. Doing so on both router will allow you to ping each other loopback address (and run a routing protocol). More information on this Cisco page 

AS for point 1. well, maybe you could craft a IP header which check sum result would be 1, looking at the algorithm used (which is described in the RFC you linked), but if you expect somebody to do it for you, good luck... Regarding point 2. you have to look at RFC2119 where it is said : 

In other words you have a /24 network that you want to divide in 6 networks. Let's reorder the teams by size: 

Many (small) organization do actually use a single public IP address. But when a company host its own email servers and have 4 SMTP gateways for example, it requires 4 different public IP addresses. Keep in mind that the IP protocol, and all protocols that run on top of IP were designed so each host get a unique IP address, and with the assumption of end-to-end connectivity. NAT was introduced as a necessity to mitigate the lack of availability of sufficient IP addresses, until IPv6 is fully deployed, but it broke the protocol in several way and has many drawbacks. 

Today a customer contacted me because he has upgraded his MacBook to MacOS X Sierra and since then, when trying to access a switch via SSH he got the message 

BGP dampening is local to the router, it doesn't depend on a configuration on the neighbor router. But if you are an end customer it is of little use unless you use extensively BGP inside your own network. And still, the usefulness of BGP route dampening is questionable. In this report a RIPE working group state that: