Are these local accounts or domain accounts? If these are local accounts, they can't be moved. Are these IIS or windows users? You can review the applicationHost.config (make a backup copy first) and see what configuration is stored in there. I asked a question about moving IIS manager users to another machine, a MS team member mentioned this. We need a bit more information. As far as moving the configuration over. You could try copying the sites configuration specific to the FTP site by copying and pasting the particular configuration. This involves the XML so it's not very straight forward, but is an option. $URL$ 

ARR is your answer here. Look for articles by Scott Forsyth on handling ARR. He has a IT pro series with some covering ARR. $URL$ 

I'm trying to do the same. I got success configuring c-icap to block a request. Your seems to be incomplete. Mine is configured as follows: 

Putting third party scripts into an could be an alternative. Common sense is that an iframe has a high cost (in terms of load), but if it's cost is less then the cost of loading third party elements, you could give it a try. You probably you did most of things that are discribed here, but it's a good resource anyway. 

I'm trying to use awk to parse an output generated by a java application, but it isn't working. It seems that the command after the pipe isn't able to get/see the data throwed by the java app. I'm executing the following command (with the return generated by the command): 

Can you look in the iis logs and see what the sub-status code is on the 401. Here is a list of codes posted by MS $URL$ The HTTP status code in IIS 7.0, IIS 7.5, and IIS 8.0 $URL$ you could also use failed request tracing to see what is happening. $URL$ 

If you know the sub domains, then I'd have a different site (call it site 2) pointing to app1, put the certain domains as host-headers with the same ip address as the other unknown on a separate site that has ip address bindings (call it site 1). When you want to update code for site 2, update the folder location to app2 on site2 with the host-headers. If you have multiple servers, I would take one out of load, update to your needs, put in load and continue with other boxes. Hope that helps. 

I recommend you to spent some time reading COBIT, that is Control OBjectives for IT. In fact it's used by many auditing companies to audit IT area. I also recommend you to use tools such as nessus (that will check your network/servers for vulnerabilities) or mbsa (microsoft baseline security analyser), but it will only check windows hardware. Since you asked for a starting point, I think this could help you. 

Since you wrote that the clients are win xp, I'm assuning that you have an active directory. So, you could build a script using WMI to do it to you. Take a look at this script, it will retrieve information about printers installed on a local machine. And you could join it with this script, that will retrieve all the computers registerd in your domain. By joining both scripts you will end up with a script that will walk over your network retriving printing information. At this site you will find lots of good resources. 

You could use process explorer by sysinternals to see what files are locking the process. Also, have you checked if your anti-virus is locking it? 

first enable sql remote connections $URL$ second open windows fw if you are using it on port 1433 (or whatever port you configured) for sql. 1433 is the default. 

I would consult the vendors website for this type of question. It appears to have an active and well documented @ $URL$ Redmine 2.1.2. 

We need a bit more information. Things to check. Is this site a asp.net or classic asp? Classic asp is harder to troubleshoot. 1) Is the application recording any errors? 2) What does the cpu and memory look like during this time? 3) Do you have any long running pages? Log parser can help with this $URL$ 4) I'd start collecting some perfmon if you have access to the server. If not, have you engaged your hosting provider? Let the perf counters run, start with basics web service, cpu, memory, logical / physical disk. 5) I would put or verify the troublesome site in it's own application pool. $URL$ 6) is a bot hitting your site? The iis logs will provide some options there. 7) Are we talking hundreds or thousands of users on the server? Key counters to look for is requests / per sec, concurrent connections, good article $URL$ 

But the output isn't being parsed. It throws the entire string: I also tryed to use with the same result: the string isn't parsed. So my question is, how do I parse the output in order to get just the number at the end of the string? TIA, Bob 

Well, since the users will need to "fill out" and you didn't narrowed your need, I understand that you can use even a CMS like Drupal. With Drupal (and some modules like webform, cck, views) users will be able build their on questionnaires, collect data, and then export it if it's necessary. By doing it this way, we'll not need to deal with "database stuff". It will manage it for you. 

This can't be controlled as far as I know. First time i've seen this type of question. There is a range of ports Windows uses for dynamic allocation, which is the range you are seeing. You can control dynamic ports but it requires having control of both the client and server to limit the number of dynamic ports. For an internet facing site, this is not fesible. 

An app pool recycle should be sufficient per site basis. These are independent processes. Too often articles and processes promote using iisreset. Is stopping / starting the app pool for the one site an option? Is this a single server solution and are you trying to minimze downtime for the site? There is an option to Disable recycling on configuration changes. Then you can manually recycle. When the problem happens, what is listed in the applicationHost.config? 

Probably it's not enough, but papercut is free for a maximum of 5 users. Papercut also have a free tool called print logger. I never used it, but, seems that it could help. 

The file denyhosts.txt, is a simple text file. Each line should contain a host to be block, such as: 

We are facing a virus problem on our network, but I'm unable to identify it, so we can't properly deal with it. The symptoms are that the virus duplicates a word document (.doc) generating a new archive with the same name, but with an exe extension, and, after that, the virus hides the original file. So, when the user clicks over the file, it propagates itself. Symantec AV seems to be able to block it: every time that the virus tries to generate the exe, symantec blocks it, but at this point, the original file was already converted to hidden, so the user thinks that the file has been deleted. Symantec identifies it as a simple trojan horse. I already started a full scan, but it didn't found nothing. I'm trying to know the virus name in order to fight it. Does anyone has any kind of information? TIA, Bob 

The IUSR account is a new account with w2k8. By default that is the user account for anonymous. I recommend setting the anonymous to inherit from application pool identity. Then you can grant permissions on the ApplicationPoolIdentity I_AppPoolName account $URL$ Either way is fine depending on your needs. 

logparser has the ability to insert into syslog type logparser -h -o:syslog Wrap into a batch file or powershell script. That is one option. Examples: Send error entries in the IIS log to a SYSLOG server: 

Try a hosts file entry remotely on a client and see if you things work. Once that is all set, you'll just need the dns A record as mentioned in the previous post. This is something I do all the time to make sure the setup is working both locally as well as remotely.