I can select all databases, all user databases, specific databases...none of them ever save. Every time I re-open the task that field is switched back to < Select one or more > option. I've connected as user sa and I've connected with Windows Authentication. Same result. Also, I've double-checked that the databases I'm trying to backup are in Full recovery model. I'm running SQL Server 2005 SP2 on Windows 2003 R2 SP2. 

A single IP address will force you to host these services on non-standard ports if they both use the same port by default. For example, if your video conferencing software and web server both want to use port 80 for HTTP and you need to have both accessible publicly, you'll have to set one to run on port 80 and the other to a different port (like 8080). 

There's a lot of documentation out there on how to create an Exchange 2010 DAG, but not much on how to revert back to a single server. Has anyone ever done this successfully? 

Like a lot of people in IT I sit at a desk for 8-10hrs/day working on stuff that needs to get done "now". That usually means eating unhealthy lunches at my desk, and sometimes dinner too. This does terrible things to your health. I have been trying to work some exercise into the workday but I was thinking it would be great if I worked somewhere where I was exercising all the time (walking around, lifting servers, etc.). Does anyone have a job in IT (or know someone) where you are actually moving around (not sitting) doing something for most of the day? 

It sounds like Cicso's virtual tunnel interfaces let you run dynamic routing protocols over IPSEC tunnels without GRE (see here). I was wondering if there was an equivalent in Juniper's JUNOS. I didn't see anything in JUNOS' documentation but I'm hoping someone here has used it and knows the same of the feature. 

Grasping at straws here, but what NICs are you using in these servers? The Stack Overflow sysadmins have had weird networking issues with Broadcom NICs that went away when they switched to Intel NICs: $URL$ 

If you rarely use the IPMI interface it's possible it's still using the default username/password ADMIN/ADMIN (case sensitive). 

Forward emails sent to old_domain.com to new_domain.com Autoreply to the sender that everyone's email has changed to new_domain.com 

I've recently been in a situation where an Exchange email server went down and we weren't able to bring it back online after 48hrs, so some incoming emails bounced. Also, users weren't able to send or receive emails for a few days, which was a sore point and caused some early withdrawl symptoms. In a post-mortum someone came up with the idea of setting up a quick and dirty webmail server to catch those emails during the outage so that at the very least people could receive and send emails. I've never done this, but it sounds like a good idea. Has anyone tried something like this before successfully? 

I am running into a problem while trying to save a transaction log database backup maintenance task: 

Sure, you can always connect a machine directly to the internet and have a software firewall running on it (Windows Firewall for Windows, iptables for Linux)..:) 

We have several Windows VMs (all user editions, no server editions). We install virus scanners inside the VMs to protect them from users. The real-time file scanning kills I/O performance inside the VM though (I see disk access times spike to 2000ms while it runs). Multiply that by 50x and you get a lot of I/O churn. We can disable real-time file scanning, but that defeats the purpose of having it there in the first place. I think creating snapshots every few hours is a better solution, but I wanted to ask if anyone else has found a better solution for this. The virus scanner is Symantec Endpoint and the VMs are running on top of vSphere 4.1. 

We have a Windows 2008 VM running IIS and SQL Server Express (it's an all-in-one web application). We need to have another copy at our secondary datacenter site. What is the best way to do this? It doesn't have to be running all the time but it has to have almost the latest copy of the current VM. I took a look at VMWare Fault Tolerance and after the heart attack at the price I starting looking for another solution. If need be I wouldn't mind copying it over to a cloud VM provider, if I can find one that lets me copy my own VMs up and start them up without any conversion process. 

Is this possible with Postfix, and does anyone have documentation on how to do it? I know just enough Linux to be dangerous, so I want to be sure before I suggest this. 

We have a Dell Poweredge 1950 that came with Dell Rapid Rails. These are the tool-less mounting rails for 4 post square hole racks. We have some new Dell Poweredge R610s on the way. We were hoping to use the existing 1950 rails but it looks like Dell has a new type of rail for the 11G Poweredge series (yay) called the Ready Rail: $URL$ Does anyone know from first hand experience if the old Dell Rapid Rails work with the newer 11G servers? 

I usually go with GoDaddy certs for this reason (they purchased Valicert and their CA root awhile ago). That being said, iPhones do trust Network Solutions certs. Are you running Exchange 2003 SP2? iPhones need Exchange 2003 SP2 to sync. 

We have two buildings that are across the street from each other. Each has their own separate network. We needed to connect them together using a fast connection because of the large number of files that are copied between the networks on a daily basis. We have a wireless bridge setup right now between the buildings that gives us about 20Mbps (it's two Aironet 1240AG in root/non-root configuration). Unfortunately there's a lot of RF interference in the area (lots of residential buildings) and the Aironet's lose connectivity on a daily basis (which leads to a lot of disgruntled users). I'm thinking about upgrading to some Motorola PTP wireless bridges but I wanted to ask, am I going about this the right way? We went with the wireless bridges because it was cheaper than getting a hard line between the two buildings but I'm starting to regret that idea given how badly these AP's are working. Any suggestions? Edit: The Aironet's are using the 5Ghz band and use 802.11a. The antennas are directional panel antennas. 

We have a vSphere cluster of 4 ESXi servers licensed for Standard. We want to purchase some Advanced licenses so that we can use the Fault Tolerance feature in vSphere, but we don't want to upgrade the entire cluster to Advanced if we don't have to (it's ridiculously expensive). Does anyone know if you can run Advanced features on just a few specific servers in a vSphere cluster without having to upgrade the entire cluster? 

We have a 3U Supermicro chassis with 16 bays on a SAS expander backplane. We have 15 of the bays occupied with hard drives at the moment. We would like to add two more drives to the backplane, but we only have 1 bay open. Does anyone know if there is a way to “add” more SAS ports to our backplane? EDIT: More details! We have this motherboard which comes with an onboard SAS HBA: $URL$ inside this chassis: $URL$ I'm pretty sure this server uses the same chassis: $URL$ If you go through the configuration page for that server, you can add 16 HDs + 2 SAS SSDs. That means they're filling up all of the bays and connecting 2 SAS drives internally. The chassis comes with brackets to hold the SSDs but I don't know where they would plug into the motherboard or the backplane. The motherboard SAS connectors are both plugged into the backplane. 

We have a 2 node Exchange 2010 server setup with a DAG. I really didn't want to use Public Folders, but we need them for a legacy app. I created two public folder databases, one on each node because you can't make PF databases part of the DAG. They replicate to each other. Right now, I have one of the PF databases selected in the DAG as the default public folder database. It doesn't look like you can select a failover. My question is: Is there any way to load balance across these two PF databases? Or if I can't do that, can I set them up to failover automatically if one goes down? It looks like right now I can only have one PF database on one node in use at a time, and if that node goes down, public folders go down as well. 

You may want to install ESXi on the host server instead of fighting VMware Server. I have installed VMware Server 2.0 for 4 different clients on Windows 2003 and Ubuntu 8.10 host OSes. The hardware was simliar to to yours in that we were using 7200RPM SATA drives on a PERC RAID controller. When we tried running SBS 2003 and Windows 2003 guests on it the IO performance was atrocious (in the sub 10MB/sec category). When we installed ESXi and migrated the guest OSes on it IO performance jumped to 90MB/sec and the results were much better. I don't know how flexible you can be with the OS on that server but you may end up saving much more time by just moving to ESXi.