Have you tried the ubuntu minimal install CD? does pretty much what you want. And here is a tutorial (for 8.10 but the principle is the same) 

first, try re-booting with JUST the DVI connected. it may be that defaulting to VGA as primary is causing you problems. if that still fails, go into your display properties and look for dual monitor settings and see if it's showing up as a second disabled monitor that needs enabling. Also try getting latest drivers from the AMD/ATi site rather than from Dell. the Dell ones are usually just OEM branded anyway. $URL$ if you don't know exactly what RADEON it is, they have an auto detect tool: $URL$ 

on a 750Gb drive, GetDataBack will take an age, but is one of the best out there. a drive i work with recently lost it's entire partition table for no explicable reason. GDB did a pretty good job of recovering it after several other progs failed. 

double click it to open it up and select "Enable" to prevent the timeout of the restart dialog. If you don't have access to gpedit.msc due to your Windows SKU, then create the registry entry directly: (create any keys that don't already exist) 32bit: 

as well as upgrading the ram, it's also possible to upgrade the CPU to a core 2 duo, which would easily handle 720p MKV's - $URL$ is one example. Then, with the RAM upgrade, you can have your choice of OS's: Snow Leopard, Ubuntu, or XBMC live (or Snow Leopard with XBMC as an application) 

Control Panel->Administrative tools->Computer Management->Storage->DiskManagement Find usb pen drive in lower middle panel [Labeled Disk n (where n is a number) Removable 8GB] right click on it and select Change Drive Letter and Paths and see if the assigned one is conflicting with another drive 

try truecrypt it suits usb sticks really well. you can encrypt the whole drive or just certain folders. and it's cross platform from their homepage: 

In answer to the how safe is it part, True image is an excelent piece of software, and shouldn't give you any problems even if you were going from a larger medium to a smaller one (as long as the data itself should actually fit) though i've not used 2010 home. I theory it shouldn't be any problem at all apart from the drive letter one you've found, but that's a windows/cloning issue, not a acronis/flash/cloning issue 

create a DWORD value called NoAutoRebootWithLoggedOnUsers and set the value to 1 64bit: same as 32bit but use 

try for a totally lean setup. one memory module, the CPU and the heatsink. re-seat and double check EVERYTHING. the CPU, the RAM, try the RAM module in different slots, disconnect the entire front panel connectors and just hook up the power switch. swap with the reset switch as already suggested, make sure all fans are connected to the correct headers. make sure you have all power connected properly - main 20+4 pin ATX connector, extra 4-pin CPU power (socket should be somewhere near the CPU socket) That MOBO has onboard graphics so plug your monitor into that. if you can get hold of another PSU to eliminate that it's not the PSU (in this minimal config you won't need a lot of Watts, in fact you won't even need a full 24 pin ATX, just a 20 pin one as the extra 4 pins are for the PCI-Express graphics card power (through the slot) but it does need the separate 4-pin CPU (2x yellow and black) AKA the P4 connector. Finally, there could be a MOBO fault. I've heard a lot of people complaining that ASUS Sandy Bridge boards have not been anywhere near their usual level of quality and have had higher levels of total failure (sorry this is totally anecdotal, but coming from people who build a lot of PC's) once you've eliminated the PSU and loose connections as the culprit then suspect the MOBO. a bad CPU will usually still get the board to power on, even if it wont POST or do anything else except run the fans. 

+1 for an ion as a multimedia machine. low power (both CPU and Wattage) but with a graphics chipset that can hadnle FULL 1080p HD. some even come with an HDMI port. If you want a nice easy answer, some pre built ion nettops exist such as the Acer revo, or asus ionstar 

go to the system menu (wrench/spanner) Tools -> Developer tools. you should be able to see the frame url in there 

As has been said before in comments, h.264 is a better (as in compresses better) codec than xvid, so with all other things being equal (quality, framesize, framerate etc.) xvid will always produce larger files. the upside to xvid is that it's less CPU intensive than h.264 which is why cheap media players can use it. Case in point, XBMC on the original xbox (which had a CPU of PIII architecture running at 733 MHz) could be coerced into playing 720p HD content, but only if the codec was lightweight enough and with very specific flags. this was typically xvid as h.264 even in SD resolutions was usually too much for the poor old PIII. at SD resolutions a typical acceptable Q 45 min tv show weighs in around 350 Mb, but in h.264 would be around half that. for your best bet, re-code the videos to the same res as the device (but keeping the quality), that way you're not wasting any bandwidth on image that's only going to be downscaled at playback time anyway. - halving the resolution in any direction (say 1280x720 -> 640x360 as mentioned above) will reduce the required bandwidth (and resulting filesize) to 1/4. 

Go to your start menu (Click the Windows Orb). Type in in the search text field, and press enter. Goto . Under the key create a key called . Under create a key called . Set the value of in the Command key to be . 

First I want to start off by saying, that I am in the planning stages of this. I have bought no hardware, and everything is a possibility to ensure the success of this project while keeping convenience and portability in mind. I am looking for a solution that will allow me to have 2 RAID arrays comprised of 2x 3Tb drives each. These will be my LTRS drives. Referred to as LTRS0, first array, and LTRS1, second array. These drives are meant to store my work, music, videos, and documents from system build to system build. I want to ensure their long term integrity by placing them within RAID 1. Basically, LTRS0 will have 2 HDD of 3Tb in RAID 1, LTRS1 will have 2 HDDs of 3TB in RAID 1, but they can contain different data. I want to know what my best option is based on these requirements. Should I get a PCI(e) card that I can take from system to system as I build them, or should I get a NAS and put all of my data in that, or should I use the on board motherboard controller and just make sure I have the same controller from system build to system build? 

I've recreated the spreadsheet in Google Docs, and if you can provide an answer for Excel or Google Docs that'd be great. As far as Microsoft Office, I've looked up, SUMIF(), VLOOKUP() but the combination of these items is starting to look more like line noise then functions. I just can't quite wrap my head around it. 

I'm trying to get to my SSH server on the internet from a corporate network. All connections to the outside internet have to be proxied through a server that check's for the NTLM hash of each client on each request. I'm using Cntlm for that, and it's only half working. It's working fine for HTTP based connections, but it's not working for SSH style connections. I know this because, I can connect to Sublime Text's Package Control Plugin to get and update plugins. I however, can not use it to SSH into my server using Cntlm's Tunnel configuration. Looking into Cntlm's logs, I can see the following ... 

I was thinking about setting up a web server on a Raspberry Pi, RPi boots from an SD card. The server is meant to be able to be in operation for a very long time, 10 years is it's expected life span. I wanted to know if socket files used by nginx or php-fpm could cause excessive writes to the file system. or are these files held in memory and never touch the drive's file system. Some SD cards have a problem with read-write-erase cycles, and if the socket file is written to the server's file system on each interaction, could this cause a problem with the lifespan of the SD card? I plan on setting it up so that access log files are also not written at all, and error log files are emailed and never touch the file system at all. If socket files do touch the file system, the current work around would be to make a fs in ram that the socket files would be written too. 

I can't seem to find the latest version of wget easily using a Google Search. I'm looking for a Windows version that I can use, and no one seems to have it. 

I have 2 columns, & . I want to iterate over the columns and sum only the corresponding value of into a certain cell within the same page. The pseudo code for this would be like: 

Any idea's what I can do to fix this? I would like to SSH into my server, there must be a way to do this using only Cntlm's Tunneling feature, I just don't know what I am doing wrong. I can tell you that I can connect to my SSH server using port 443 from outside of the corporate network. 

How do I delete album art, desktop.ini, and thumbs.db from my music folder in Windows 7? I can see all of these files because I took the hard drive from my old computer and put it in my new one. It now has all of these junk files that the OS does not use, so I want to delete them and get them out of my sight. 

I have a USB Thumb Drive that I was going to use to install Windows 7 with. While formatting the drive with the Windows 7 USB/DVD download tool it failed leaving my USB drive in an unusable state. I can see the drive with the Windows Disk Manager, but it shows that it has a RAW file system, and any time I try to reformat it a second time, it simply says that It can't find the file or partition. Using DiskPart I've also not had very much luck as trying to use the command results in an error. These are the commands I'm using and their output. 

So, I turn to you, of the options given, what's the best one to meet the goal of long term redundant storage. If you could provide product details that would be great, or information on your own in house solution.