As commented you are best using another IGP because of the limitation of RIPs infinite metric. However you can configure individual ports to add more than one or alternatively configure offset lists to increase the advertised routes based on network address. RIP normally increases the cost by adding one to the route’s metric before storing the route so to alter this you can change the amount that an individual port adds to the metric of a Learned route, for example to increase port cost then use: interface FastEthernet0/1 ip metric 5 Alternatively lookup using an offset list to use an access list to point to a specific network you wish to influence (and in which direction). An example resource is here: offset list blog 

If AS 6501 is willing be a transit AS then they would be able to route to your /8' however it may also depend on whether you obtained your /8 from the said ISP or not. In terms of good literature then would always highly recommend 'Routing TCP/IP Vol2' by Jeff Doyle & 'Internet Routing Architectures' by Sam Halabi. 

I have a network with resilient gateways whereby Customer sites use a default gateway to reach the internet edge routers and the primary route for traffic uses a lower metric. ipsec tunnels are initiated from vpn concentrators behind the edge routers and are statically configured to the destination tunnel endpoints which are 3rd party data centers. I am not able to use a dynamic routing protocol with the 3rd party. 

The use of secondary IP interface addresses on Cisco routers at least do not seem to have major pitfalls necessarily but moreover some limitations I've found it is useful to be aware of. 

Sorry I am new to 10G BASE-SR and I can't seem to find a good resource that can confirm if an SFP supported in a Cisco Nexus 5548UP will be compatible with a new service The new service is described as '10 Gigabit Ethernet LAN PHY IEEE 10G BASE-LR10.3125 Gbps +/- 100 ppm 1310nm' Ultimately I need to understand if a 'cisco sfp-10g-sr' for which the transmitter wavelength spec is described as 850nm is usable. 

To avoid issues then I'll use primary addressing wherever possible and secondary in corner case scenarios. 

You state Netgear switch however what you describe is for L3 routing. If configured correctly the router will respond to an arp request which is broadcast onto the lan segment with the mac address of all FF's but the router will only reply with its own mac-address if the ip it finds encapsulated in the frame is configured on one of its interfaces. If you are still telling your host device to send packets towards a different ip of 192.168.0.1 that effectively doesn't exist then it will not work. 

However this appears to require a IP address on the NET2 interface ( that is if I put address 192.168.20.1 on NET2 it works- However without the address present Packet tracer indicates that this address is not required - in that the following output occurs when there is no IP address on the interface. So the first question is the address on NET2 required? My problem is that I cannot put addresses in the correct sub-net on BOTH interfaces (NET1 and NET2) Output of interface config and packet tracer follows (The packet tracer command full text is 

The data sheet "Cisco SFP Modules for Gigabit Ethernet Applications Data Sheet" says "the minimum cable distance for all SFPs listed (multimode and single-mode fiber) is 6.5 feet (2 m)." However even though the transmit maximum power is equal to the receive maximum power, for very short distances (5m) I get receive overload warnings which may be due to reflections (see my question "1000BASE-LX/LH Receive power level greater than transmit power level" ) The datasheet text quoted in the other answer is for the "1000BASE-ZX SFP for Long-Reach Single-Mode Fibers" which have a higher transmit than receive power The 1000BASE-LX/LH can use SM or MM, however mixed SM and MM cable in the fixed plant causes me a lot of headaches and I would recommended SM with attenuators if needed. 

If I ping 172.17.5.10 from Router2A the firewall does see the packets Router 3 is a 3750 , Router 2 are 3850s There is no device with an IP in the range 172.17.5.0/25 - I am using this to demonstrate the problem to myself So I'm close to saying this is a bug - I'm waiting for a reboot but my questions at the moment are 

So this seems to me to mean that you can connect them with any length cable as the Transmitter maximum is the same as the receiver maximum (-3 dBm) Yet if I connect them to each with a five meter patch lead to each other (in the same switch) - or if I connect one to itself I get a high RX power warning 

And more importantly is this a problem ? I can see that the 1000BASE-ZX has a much higher transmit power than a receive power - so this would need an attenuation cable 

I don't see how a transmit power of -5.5 dBm is being received as -1.4 dBm so my question is , Is it real - how am I receiving more power than I transmit? Can I control the transmit power ? (other than inserting the lead but not clicking it into place - which actually seems to work as shown by the receive level below 

They are only used interchangeably from a perspective of each unique vlan at layer 2 should have its own subnet for addressing at layer 3 giving you separation and ability to manage broadcast traffic etc. In terms of scenarios where you would have a vlan without a subnet then only perhaps if using an 'ip unumbered' setup but there are not too many reasons to want to have to do this. If you review some best practice models like Cisco's composite network model then in terms of keeping individual subnets and your vlans 'local' to switch blocks then you would generally have a separate subnet assigned per vlan. 

Whilst I understand that product recommendations are off topic can anyone help by explaining what the critical factors are when looking for SFPs that are going to be compatible with a new service? Is wavelength a defining factor that should be considered/matched or should anything else be used to guide selection? 

Make sure your network statement within the dhcp block of config covers these addresses in terms of the subnet mask it is using and the addresses should get assigned going fwd. 

In your example where you have 4 aligned to 252 (/22 mask = 255.255.252.0), then you have a range of 4 networks counting up from the network number. The octet where your mask changes from .255 will correspond to the octet of your host address. In this instance it is in the 3rd octet so you will have a range from 10.10.12.1 - 10.10.15.255/22, so yes they are within the same subnet. 

I have a requirement to provide an accurate means to demonstrate line performance over a flat layer2 1Gb point-to-point Ethernet circuit, approx 100 miles apart that seemingly goes through a number of hops over the distance. The business requirement will need to demonstrate performance with an accuracy of min 8ms latency. The link will carry voice and data traffic whereby the service SLA should guarantee 1000Mb bandwidth. What are the known accurate methods of measuring performance given these requirements? I am aware of a number of metrics available that might possible form a test strategy but having Googled a bunch of info it can get overwhelming and i'm unclear of whether software like iPerth should be used, what's the benchmark for this scenario etc? 

The ADVA device is used by the provider as a point of demarcation and to ultimately terminate the WAN link. If it is a multi port ADVA then you might want to ensure you are plugged into the correct port, usually 1-4 for 100Mb and port 5 used as the Gig port, therefore double check with the provider which port has been provisioned. As Mike Pennington suggested then try removing speed & duplex config on the cisco router or alternatively try to auto negotiate if that doesn't prove succesful. Lastly, the ADVA does has some intelligence in that it can carry vlans so you might want to check with the provider if anything in this respect has been configured as standard across the wan link. I've seen instances of needing to configure a sub-interface on the router that corresponds with the vlan id set on the wan link, albeit this can likely depend upon the service type and Provider Edge routers being used. 

On IOS you can enter control-v to escape the next character. This lets you enter a question mark without pulling up help. Don't if that works on ASA but might be worth a try. 

There's really no reason not to put multiple subnets on the same VLAN, but there's also probably no reason to do it. Pro: 

I think the answer is that switches don't care about VLANs in other switches. The boundaries created by a VLAN only apply on that switch. In this case it sounds like an access port on VLAN 10 in the core switch is plugged into an access port in either VLAN 20 or 30 in the switch with the ACE. Since they're access ports there's no tagging and while I would consider that a misconfiguration and "wrong" it will work just fine as a way to bridge VLAN 10 and the other VLAN. Since VLANs 20 and 30 are bridged explicitly by the ACE that makes all three VLANs into one broadcast domain. You might think of the VLANs as ethernet hubs. Each VLAN is a hub, a broadcast domain. The bridge statement in the ACE connects the 20 and 30 "hub" and turns them into one domain so they can see each other. There is obviously something connecting 10 into the one of the others as well but there isn't enough info to know what. Probably it's an access port with each end in a different VLAN or it's a trunk port with "mismatched" default VLAN. Bonus info because hubs aren't common anymore: In the olden days people used hubs for ethernet connections (when they weren't hiding from dinosaurs). Computers were plugged into hubs and each hub was a broadcast domain (and a collision domain but we're not going there). VLANs didn't exist so each hub was it's own domain and computers plugged into hub 20 couldn't see other computers that were plugged into hub 30 unless the two hubs were connected by running a cable between them (a crossover cable because MDIX didn't exist yet). 

I can't speak to Option 43 being ignored but can you put in a DNS entry for CISCO-CAPWAP-CONTROLLER.domain-given-by-dhcp and point it at 10.19.3.209? That should let them unicast to the controller. 

No. The native VLAN on a trunk means that: A) Any untagged frame arriving on the trunk will be treated as being in the native VLAN (regardless of what VLAN it was in on the sending switch). B) Frames on the native VLAN will cross the trunk untagged. In your example a frame arriving on the default VLAN (VLAN 1) will be forwarded out the trunk port on VLAN 1. Since VLAN 2 is the native VLAN that means the frame on VLAN 1 will be tagged. The only way a layer-2 switch will ever move a frame from one VLAN to another is if something is misconfigured. You could misconfigure it intentionally but in my opinion it would still be wrong. 

An "alternative" would appear to me to be (in line with answering "or if you can think of an even better solution") - Treat the switches and the network as untrusted and force the clients to use VPN to connect. This is my company's standard response to small offices (4 workstations seems small to me) due to the difficulty of controlling the physical switches on site .For the offices we use like this the printers can only be used when not on VPN or using direct USB. I'm not sure this is applicable for you - I either got confused about the switches you propose or you seem to have a requirement for a lot of ports for just four computers. 

Personally I prefer to not change anything until I know what is meant to work You seem to have two subnets in the same system - I dont know why (as in what is the functional requirement for two subnets ) There is no restriction to enforce that devices on the same switched network are in the same subnet - they cannot talk to each other , they still need a router and yet they share a layer 2 collision domain - but it still works - just maybe not the way you want. 255.255.240.0 means there are more possible devices in the collision domain at the IP level so there is a possible performance hit if you get to that many devices actually being present in the subnet - it makes no difference if there are not Being locked at 255.255.240.0 is not an issue but having read all this - I think you are adding a new device and NOT specifying your correct sub-net mask of 255.255.240.0 and thus the new device cannot reach the devices it needs to and so it freezes with network timeouts (This is understandable )or applications crash because of network connectivity issues- (not so understandable - but it could happen) 255.255.240.0 is correct - so typing in a incorrect mask is wrong - if you cant change the router - then accept that's what the mask is and make sure you use that mask - Changing the mask after first implementation means changing the mask on all devices at the same time. (sort of if you know what your doing and understand the sub-nets you can sometimes work around this ) I'd relax - leave the subnet mask the way it is - fix all devices to use the correct subnet mask - and see what is and is not working - document (ie find out) what is meant to talk to what and then decide what to do 

To my knowledge (which is not advanced) directionality is generally a function of the antenna so I suppose that you could use separate transmit and receive antennas such that one could be directional and the other omnidirectional. Another alternative would be beamforming, which is a signal-processing technique that seems to be simulating directionality in software. 

A very quick (and therefore incomplete) answer: Assuming all of the inside stuff is on the same subnet the ICMP messages are switch2 saying "I don't need to be involved in this, talk to the firewall directly". What I've usually done for these situations is set up a transit subnet between the inside router (switch2) and the firewall so that switch2 can route to something that's not on the internal subnet. It also gives you a choke point where you can monitor and control traffic leaving your internal network. I wouldn't recommend static routes on servers in this situation. It's just a pain to manage and adds unneeded complication. 

Both have VSAT options that involve a lot of "spoofing" similar to what Riverbed does on the WAN. They'll terminate the TCP connection at the earth-terminal on each end to make the client think things are faster than they are. 

I'm fairly certain that when the router forwards the DHCP request it includes only the primary network configured on the interface. I don't believe there's any way to have it use the secondary network. Edit: I did some Googling and determined what others have already pointed out, there's a feature called smart-relay that can use the secondary network, but only after the primary times out three times. The relevant quote from Understanding and Troubleshooting DHCP in Catalyst Switch or Enterprise Networks - Cisco Systems 

We generally don't do it because of the messiness and lack of security. One VLAN = one subnet is easier to document and easier to troubleshoot and there's usually not a good reason to complicate things. The only reason I can think of to do it is company mergers or network upgrades and for both of those I'd prefer it to be temporary. Edit to clarify, for the hosts on different subnets but the same VLAN to talk directly you'd need to either make them their own default gateway or add a route to the "other" subnet that connects it to the interface. In the gateway case if the host IP was 10.1.1.2 then the gateway would also be 10.1.1.2. This will cause the host to ARP for everything on or off it's subnet. This would allow it to talk to the second subnet on that VLAN but the only way it'll be able to talk to anything else is if there's a router/firewall running proxy arp that can help it out. In the route out the interface case you'd add something like "route add -net 192.56.76.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 eth0" to the device and then 10.1.1.2 will ARP directly on eth0 when it wants to reach 192.56.76.*.