LO Calc will adapt the chart accordingly. Here's the result of manually reducing the major interval: 

(If you need more control, e.g. to distinguish between text, number, bool or error, you could also use the function.) Alternatively, to simply display computed values and text/number values in different color globally, just activate "" from the Calc options. This will display computed values in a different color than text/number values. The setting affects all ods files, and (AFAIK) you can't modify the style how to display values / formula results. 

Use the Navigator to select the object: to open the navigator, hit F5 or Menu -> or select the compass icon from the side bar. All images are listed under , text frames under and so on. Just click on the background image and double-click to select it: 

As a workaround, you could put the image and its caption into a singe-column table (two rows, first for pic, second for caption). This way, LO can insert a page break into the caption cell. Maybe even a 1x1 table will work - see also this OOo forum thread. 

Create the file (boilerplate / "text block") that should be inserted in the other documents. You can use any LO file type, e.g. odt (LO Writer). In the file where the text block should apppear, put the cursor where the file should get inserted; Select Menu -> -> ; In the dialog box, select "", tick "", and select the "text block" file using the "search..." button: 

Now, you've updated the default frame style with your custom settings. Every new frame will inherit those settings. The frame style won't get modified automatically if you modify any of the frames in your document. But you can easily update the frame style manually by selecting the frame and using "Update Style" again as explained above. If you want to leave the default frame style intact, you may easily create a new custom frame style, following the same steps as above. The only difference is, that in the last step, you'll have to select "" instead of "". "" will create a new frame style, based on the settings of the currently selected frame. It won't get applied to a new frame automatically, but you can assign that style easily to a new frame by selecting the frame and double-clicking the new frame style name. 

Try using "" from the "" Menu and pasting the content as "" instead of HTML content. Take care you may loose all formatting by using this paste mode. 

Using these settings, the inserted rows will keep their styles (both directly applied styles and cell styles). 

What do you want to achieve exactly? If you just want to modify the appearance of LibreOffice, without modifying the output, you could set a custom color for the document background: Menu "" -> "" -> "" -> "". If you want to modify the output, too, you will need to use a workaround, since you can only modify the area inside the page margins (as laurent described). To modify the page appearance in a printable way, there's a nice workaround: Don't touch the page margins, but insert the content (full-page watermark, stationery, or just a full-page frame with a certain background) into the header / footer. This way, it will modify each new page, too. To modify the "background color" of the complete page, you could proceed as follows: 

I know these examples are just too simple to illustrate the solution. Just think of adding definitions of constants or creating a complete function library inside a macro, maybe with "private" helper functions invisible to the user that just edits the sheet. 

Additionally, one of the different extensions to highlight code (coooder [LibreOffice], Code Colorizer [OpenOffice]) may be useful. EDIT: To adapt the tabs for program code files, you need to modify the paragraph style in your default template. But take care that there's no way to set the tabs to a certain amount of characters. If you want to keep the tabs, you will have to check the width of a monospaced character of your favourite monospaced font, and set the tabs for the paragraph style accordingly. 

Notice the "real" date value for the month entry - you achieve this by entering the date and format the cell as Date with format code . Now, select and select Menu Insert -> Pivot Table. Confirm to create the pivot table from the current selection. In the pivot table definition dialog ... 

I never used it myself, but maybe building a "Non Product Build" with extended debugging options would be helpful. See also the "Debugging" chapter of OOo Wiki. 

The download package for mythes contains an "example" application that may act as command line tool. I didn't test it, but i think it's worth a try if it works with the hunspell / files after compiling it. 

Open Menu "" -> "" Select the "" tab; In the "" entry field, enter "" as position of the centered tabstop; From the "" radio buttons, select ""; Hit the "" button. In the list beneath the "" field, you'll see a new entry with the position of the new tabstop. Repeat steps 3 to 5 fort the tapstop at the right: in my example, you would use "" as position and "" as type. Now, the paragraph style dialogue should look like this (numbering according to the steps above): 

If you ask Calc to save a file as CSV as defined in RFC4180, it will do so. If you want Calc to use a different format, you'll have to tell Calc explicitly to do so. The way to do this is using the CSV filter settings. To access the filter settings, tick the checkbox in the "Save" dialog (it's active only after selecting a format that requires a filter): 

The error appearing in the terminal () points to a problem regarding the user config directory. I assume that deinstalling OpenOffice.org doesn't modify the user's config (even purging - - leaves those contents untouched), so removing or (better!) renaming the user config directory may help. It's placed in since OpenOffice.org 3. 

AFAIK this isn't possible solely on the level of spell checking. But you can solve this issue using different language settings for your text: you could define a new AutoText entry with the text "Open Source" and language set to English (USA). If the language for those two words is set to English, spell checking will accept it as correct. And AutoText may contain custom character style settings like different language settings. So, you could proceed as follows: 

This feature is called "" or "". You can easily achieve this in LibreOffice Writer. To do so, open Menu "" -> "", and select the "" tab. There, you can define new tabstops (enter position, select left / right / centered / decimal alignment, select the "") or edit existing ones. The dotted line is created automatically depending on the "" you've selected: If you need these settings often, you may define a custom paragraph style with the appropriate tabs settings. 

open the window (hit ), select paragraph styles (leftmost button), select from the combo box at the button, right-click on the style entry; from the context menu, select ; Open the tab; Check if inserting a page break is set in the section. 

This is a known issue since 2005; OpenOffice Bugzilla has two bug report on this issue, one from 2005 and one from 2009. You may subscribe to the bug reports and vote them up so the issue receives higher priority. There seems to be no solution up to now, only two workarounds: 

I'm not sure if there's a way to "move" rows using the keyboard, but using c&p and inserting/deleting rows using the keyboard should offer the same functionality: 

First, make sure you've selected a chart type that allows for drawing lines: , , or . Now, create your chart as usual. After you've finished it, do a single-click on the line of the incomplete data series (the data points now should be green). Now, do a right-click on that line, and from the context menu, select "". In the "" dialog, under "", select "Continue line". Other Options are: "" and "": 

To make sure that the find/replace expression is interpreted as a regex, click on the "" Button and make sure "" is selected. 

A simple solution without Macros: just put the variable arguments into separate cells. So instead of