Yes, you can do that. You open Computer, and set the settings you want. Then go to Tools>Folder Options>View, and click "Apply to All Folders". From there on out, when you open a new folder, they will be in that order (you may need to close the first window once). You can then also change any individual folder that you don't want with those settings, in other words, exceptions. 

See if there is a key "ProxyServer" in the right pane, and if so, delete it. And this one for Firefox, it is stored in this file: 

They can turn the computer off and restart it, but who wants to wait? You can make a reboot batch file (shutdown -r -f -t 00) and schedule a task at 2 am to run that nightly, but then your primary user has to log in and reopen everything daily. You can prevent locking of the workstation using GP: User Configuration>Administrative Templates>System>CTRL-ALT-DEL Options>Remove Lock Computer, and enable that, but that is a security issue. If you were not on a domain, you could enable "Fast User Switching". 

I found this worked for a number of people: ipconfig /flushdns ipconfig /release /all they rebooted, but ipconfig /renew should work They reported no errors after that. $URL$ 

While SSD's do not have any chance of mechanical failure, short of physically damaging the disk by dropping, etc., you are susectiple to electronic failure the same as with any other electronics. It may indeed be totally lost in an instant. If there is any recovery possible, it is greatly complicated, and usually beyond the end-user's abilities. Read this excellent paper, entitled Data Recovery from Solid-State Drives. Read the section entitled especially, "SSD Data Recovery Process". 

I don't know where you heard that. Grease is to reduce friction, which may cause less heat to be created, but there is no significate friction where the processor meets the fan so there is none being created that way anyway. It is not designed to dissipate heat. BUY THERMAL PASTE. 

You really are not giving a lot of information. You should put things like networks (192.168.1.x, for example), and what VPN client you are using. If you are using the Microsoft VPN client, I would try just unchecking the box: "Use default gateway on remote network" as in the image: 

I was able to use Putty to telnet on port 25 to mail.treshna.com. Also, when I telnet on port 25 to SMTP2Go.com at a command line, as soon as I enter EHLO, it give me this error: The server mail.treshna.com does respond to EHLO at a command line telnet on port 25. 

Go download one of the Windows 7 ISO images and burn it to DVD. $URL$ Then you need to boot to the recovery console, and use the BCDEdit Command: $URL$ $URL$ (not specifically your problem, but tells about how to fix boot problems) What happened is when you deleted the partition, you threw off the boot information stored in the BCD store (same function as the old boot.ini) 

Check Internet connectivity by opening a command box and ping 8.8.8.8 If you don't trust your local ISP's DNS, change to Google's 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4. Based on your comment, if you do experience problems with DNS somehow telling youtube to send you to a specific server, which is distant to you, search other local ISP's, and find their settings for DNS, and use them. I have my doubts that that is a real issue, although any change in route from your PC to a site potentially can have a misconfiguration in it. 

Then do the same for the other partition. This will remove the letters, but I am not sure you can keep them dismounted on the next boot, but the letters should remain gone. 

to match any error you may get to a "hardware ID" value in one of the sub keys to determine exactly what device the error may refer to. 

Runs scans with Malware Bytes and Superantispyware (I love Spybot, but it is just not good enough now). If they come back negative, you are probably clean. Change your passwords as you did. I will regurgitate the answer I just gave to another question in response to your what should you do to mitigate the chances of it happening again: You need to keep your computers patched (Windows Update and browser plugins up-to-date $URL$ ...works for most browsers), and protected with anti-virus. Most attacks happen from the inside, because you have not properly maintained your computer, and you get a virus. 

Check to make sure that the monitor does not simply need to be toggled (check the buttons) between analog and digital. That happens to me with my Samsung monitors. 

The CPU will definitely be involved in handling the transfer as the drive controllers use it. That you are using Firewire is only the conduit to transfer the data. 

You really can't without more parts to test with, but the odds are very much on the motherboard. Not that someone else may have seen more go, but I have only seen one CPU actually go bad in 17 years. I have seen PLENTY of motherboards die though. 

Buy a new card. It came with a fan for a reason, and you are likely to do heat damage to other parts if you run it without a fan. 

Your testing methods were excellent: Sounds like the HD. Backup any data you can ASAP, and then replace it. 

The real power of Microsoft server OS'es is that you can install active directory, and centrally manage the domain and its users. That does not seem appropriate here though. Basically, what you are describing is still using like a desktop computer, but a remote one. That is fine: You can set it up, enable remote desktop, and connect using RDP from your Windows desktop computer(s). One nice little advantage, that may, or may not, be useful, is that with Server 2003, you can have 2 RDP sessions plus one session to the console (as it you hit CTRL+ALT+DEL and were sitting in front of it). You would install any normal software it would run, and you would remote into it, and it would execute on the faster, remote server. One tip: If you use the obvious Start>Shutdown>Reboot, you risk the server not actually rebooting. We have all seen situations where you just log off of a computer, but it waits for you to end task on some program hung in the background. If that happens, you may be going into work to fix the problem immediately if the server is important enough. I strongly suggest that you never reboot a computer remotely using Start>Shutdown>Reboot, or to allow a program install to do it (say no to the reboot, then follow the directions below), but rather create a batch file called reboot.bat with the command “shutdown -r -f -t 00” (minus the quotes) and put it in %windir%\system32 directory. The switch -f forces those tasks closed, and you are much more likely to have a successful reboot. You then just run reboot in either Start>Run, or as I prefer, simply at a command prompt. I prefer not to leave a command in the run box that can accidentally reboot a server. If this helps you, please upvote and accept the answer.