If you want to do anything near production, I would probably look at the BSD variants that Joel mentioned above. You can also still get OpenSolaris although it's future is probably non-existant now that Oracle killed it. Solaris Express 11 has some license limitations - supposed to be for Test/Dev only and you're supposed to buy a support contract/subscription for production use. 

Assuming you aren't going to be maxing the CPU at 100% for 24 hours a day, any modern laptop won't overheat. Even if you do use it 24 hours a day at 100% usage, it should still be fine. I've run my laptops pretty hard over the years without any heat issues (being dropped, kicked, stepped on by kids, etc is a different story..) 

There are a couple 3rd party programs that do similar things.. or just get a stand that will put your MBP at an angle so the cat doesn't jump on it.. Lockey edit: you can also try Keyboard Cleaner 

You can setup your RDP Client to automatically map local drives which will have your local drives show up in the remote session. 

You probably have a program which has overlaid the desktop then for some reason crashed. The simple fix is to logoff and then back on. If that fixes it but you later find it keeps coming back you'll need to actually identify what is the program causing this and quit using it or deal with it otherwise. 

This is a limited solution but it may work for your needs... If you save the document as a . You can open this file in any plain text editor or in Word or in an XML file editor. There are a few other formats that will work like this, such as . Just try them all until you find one you like. The main annoyance of doing this is that Word doesn't play nicely with others and will complain if you have the document open elsewhere. So you'll need to close out of one before you open it in the other. 

The term 'super computer' implies a computer NOT made of off the shelf parts. This is not a supercomputer you are speaking of. As far as the SSD idea. You are missing several factors which are going to be impossible to overcome. First, an SSD is fast but it is nowhere near as fast as DDR3 RAM is (when you copy a 8GB file to your hard drive it still has time to pop up a dialog to show you the progress; your system would essentially be waiting those 10-20 seconds EACH RAM bus clock cycle; IOW 1833 million times per second [that's what 1833 mhz means] it'll need to wait 10-20 seconds; see the problem). Even if it was, there is something called latency which would bring this system to it's knees; this is why there is no such thing as an external RAM module. RAM NEEDS to be snappy; the latency this system would introduce would be unacceptable (and problematic for timing issues too). I think you'd be surprised to find out how much of the code on your machine is heavily dependent on the precise timing a short transmission distance affords RAM. Even if you somehow managed to get this to work (which you won't), an SSD has a limited number of write cycles so this type of workload would wear your SSD out as fast as is possible; it would destroy itself even faster but, lucky for your drive, it can only destroy itself so fast (see my first point). The fact is that these are the exact same reasons that supercomputers are really an outdated way to upscale. These latency issues really cannot be worked around without redesigning the paradigm. The way we deal with these latency issue these days is by clustering. All a cluster is is a bunch of computers which can talk SLOWLY to each other. You probably already have this setup if both of those PCs are on the same network. Now to get those two PCs to work together is a programming challenge not a hardware engineering challenge. Update 

My computer is deathly slow so I'm reinstalling Windows 7. However, I'd like to know the best way to set up the file system. Previously, I just installed it and used it. I was told by a friend that I should have the OS on a separate partition and that I shouldn't be storing Steam files, etc. in the C:\ folder. Is there an optimal way to install Windows 7 and if so, how much space should I allocate and where do I put huge folders like Steam? 

I have a SanDisk Cruzer that suddenly stopped being recognized today. It's two years old and has been through the washing machine a few times (though not recently) so it's entirely possible the hardware failed. What happens is this: I'll put it in the computer, the LED in the drive will turn on, and Windows will say that it doesn't recognize the USB. I've attempted to use recovery tools like Recova, but since it doesn't show up as an actual drive, they haven't found it. I've gone into Disk Management and it doesn't show up there, so I can't assign a drive letter. I've tried restarting, unplugging, reinstalling the drivers, but nothing has worked. Some of the files are pretty important; is there any inexpensive way to recover the data? I've been backing it up fairly regularly, so the only files I really need are from the last week or so, if that makes it any easier. 

This will only display results where the error directory is seven directories deep (from the root directory). 

You didn't mention which OS you use but you can make an OS shortcut to launch your URL. In nearly all versions of Windows, right-click on the desktop and select then enter followed by the URL like so: 

The problem with this isn't so much that it is insecure to log in as but that it is insecure to have your entire website writable by that account. You should use another account for managing your website files which has write permissions to the directories. That user should own the files (and is generally also in the group but this isn't absolutely needed). You will then be able to use the permissions you need by using the group permissions to specify what the website can do and user permissions to specify what your management account can do. You probably won't ever need to give any permissions to for these files. This management account should also be able to (and probably ) those files as needed in order to allow the website write permissions on specific folders in your site (such as a temp folder). If you do not want to allow that by this user then you'll need to provide folders for this purpose that you require website managers to use. 

I was apparently using an older version of Mozilla as the browser within HTTrack. I changed the version to 4.0 and it worked fine. 

I'm currently using Malwarebytes Pro but want to have Windows Defender on as well since MAMB isn't really an antivirus. They're supposed to be compatible but for some reason I can't turn on Windows Defender; I see the message "Your PC isn't being monitored because the app's service stopped. You should restart it now." When I visit the process list, I see that WinDefend is in the "Stopped" state, and when I turn it on it flashed on for less than a second before going back to "Stopped". I've uninstalled Malwarebytes and removed anything related to it I can find (ProgramData, registry entries, etc.) but I still can't turn on Defender and get a timeout error any time I try to enable it. I've never tried to install any other antivirus so it's not possible that any remnants are conflicting. Additionally, Windows Update fails to install any Defender-related updates. What can I do? I know I could just get a different AV but I'd like to get this working. 

It sounds like what you really want to use is the option instead of the option. Then you should not need a special style for the last item. The option is just preventing page breaks between paragraphs (which is most likely not what you want for lists made of larger paragraphs; you wouldn't want to chop off only the last item in your lists). is going to prevent your individual list item paragraphs from being broken up with page breaks (which is probably what you want for larger list items). After experimenting with this a little, it seems that both together produce the best results. More explaination: $URL$ 

Update I just installed it to confirm but dd is installed with the default installation of DSL. The following only applies if you've somehow removed it (if that is the case then you may have a lot of other important stuff missing too, you may be better off starting fresh too because this could be really difficult to fix manually. -- Open a terminal. At the prompt, type the following: 

No. An active directory domain at windows 2003 functional level or above is required for SCVMM. If you want the official word from Microsoft: $URL$ "Before installing the VMM server, you must join the computer to a domain in Active Directory." 

A wireless bridge would require you to plug your laptop into the Belkin router. If you don't want to do that, you would set it up as a wireless repeater. There's a little more to it than that, you that's the place that I would start with. edited: I stand corrected: DD-WRT is combining the functions of a bridge and a repeater. I haven't used DD-WRT that much so I didn't know they had that functionality. From the article: "The limitation with standard bridging is that it only allows wired clients to connect to your secondary router. Wireless clients cannot connect to your secondary router configured as a standard bridge. New in DD-WRT v24 is Repeater Bridge mode. This extends your primary LAN via secondary router (bridge router) and also allows wireless clients to connect to your secondary router." 

I'm trying to download the following site: $URL$ However, no matter what I try to do (get rid of the www, try other options than the "download website" one, etc) I keep getting a "HTTrack has detected that the current mirror is empty." error. Does anyone know how to resolve this? 

Schemer is closing down, and I'm trying to preserve the text because there are many good ideas on the site. I'd like to get the text from within each of the links listed on the sitemap. Is there a way I can do this? HTTrack isn't working how I'd like it to. 

I've been looking to develop an iOS app and don't have regular access to a Mac, nor can my computer run OSX. A friend of mine told me I'll need to write my program in XCode (which I'm aware I'll need access to in order to publish the app to the store) but I thought I could use something like Corona/Moai on a Windows computer and then just publish it with a Mac. Who is correct? 

I don't believe that there is any way to do this using the built in Windows tools. There are several 3rd party apps which do allow for this. One I might try is Dual Monitor Tools but I say that mainly because it is OSS. UltraMon is the actual tool I use for this but it is commercial AFAIK. 

Now press Alt+F9 to hide the field codes and select the field, which will still probably shown the total number of pages and press F9 to update the fields. You should now have the result that you are after. 

While checking my facts for this I ran across a good tutorial on using matchbox as a browser kiosk on the Pi. If this is too easy, then you can make it much more fun by using only X and nothing else. If this is what you want to do then I suspect you already know how though. 

Replace with whatever you named your task. Here is a document listing all of the command line options. Note that if you run this while ConEmu is already running it will just open a new tab in the current window. This is usually the desired behavior but this behavior can be overridden using the and switches (depending on your current setup). How to add task bar jump list items If you are using Windows 7 or higher, you may also be interested in looking at using the jump list to select a task to startup. This can be done in the 'Main' -> 'Task bar' options page. Check the 'Add ConEmu tasks to Task bar' box and press 'Update Now!'.