I have a Lenovo G510 laptop. I'm an android developer, and most of the time I'm working with the Android Studio program. As some of you know, android studio takes about 1 GB from my RAM and the Java program takes another 200 MB, while the G510 has 4 GB RAM Memory. When I'm working with android studio, the Program Manager normally says that I'm using about 95%-99% of my RAM Memory, even when there is no other programs on the background. I have 2 questions about it: 

I have Lenovo G510 laptop with 4GB RAM and Intel i5 4200M 2.50GHz processor. Recently, my laptop disconnects every time from my home WiFi network. In addition, my trackpad sometimes freezes, and I can't move the mouse, but I can still control my laptop. Sometimes it's even worse, and the whole computer just freezes. I thought maybe it is an old driver issue, but since I have Windows 10 32-bit, I cannot download any drivers for my computer from Lenovo's website, since they only have drivers for Windows 10 64-bit. Is there any operation I can do in order to fix this? It is really urgent, since this is my main computer and most of my work is online... 

This appears to be a duplicate of $URL$ although my task is running a .bat file that runs an .xlsm program. It is supposed to run once an hour, and for the last month (at least), it is locking up pretty much every day. The task itself usually only takes a few minutes to run, so it should be well done before the hour is up. In the answer on the other question, the solution is to choose "Stop the existing instance". However, on my task settings, it has the following: 

In Outlook 2007 on a company network, I can see my contact information with I select the To button on new email, and find myself in the address book. The phone number is empty. If I right-click and choose Properties, I can see all my information. But it's not letting me edit this. Is this something that is edited and saved elsewhere? If so, where? Or, is it something that only the Exchange Administor or some other admin can edit? 

Well if you are just looking for a cheap way to add an extra monitor and you can not or do not want to purchase a new video card you can always look at some of these USB video cards. The drivers for most that I have seen are only for windows systems and the cards will not be as powerful, but if you are looking for a cheap easy way to add an extra monitor, it is another option besides adding another internal video card. 

You need something to create a macro for your keyboard, basically creating a new "hotkey". Many keyboards that include multimedia keys have a program that will let you create new macros and remap the keyboard. Check in your keyboard application or go to control panel -> keyboard and you might find some options buried in there. If you do not then you will need to find a third-party utility that will create a macro for any key stroke and turn it into a new one. I have not had the need to use a third-party utility as the keyboards I purchase always have a built-in option to do this. The following link provides several utilities. If you try one of these and have issues someone here might be able to help you with the configuration. $URL$ 

After buying several dead and almost dead batteries, my neighbor has started taking a battery tester with her to the store. She buys the battery, opens it right then and checks it, so it's easy to replace if it isn't any good. 

I want to install an anti-virus, but the downloads (AVG) need me to connect to the internet to install. Isn't it dangerous to connect to the internet before I've installed the anti-virus? Oh, and this is an ancient laptop and I've just re-installed Win98 (the only legal OS I had on hand). But that shouldn't matter. I do have my XP computer to get the files, and that has the anti-virus installed. 

1. How many of my RAM Memory is for my own usage? Because some of the websites says 1.5 GB and the others says 2.5 GB, and there are a few websites that says that I can use the whole 4 GB. 

I have a laptop running Windows 10 32-bit which I got last year as part of Microsoft Windows 10's free upgrade plan. In Settings -> Updates and Security -> Activation it says that my Windows is activated using digital license linked to my Windows Microsoft account. Is there a way to switch from 32-bit to 64-bit version without buying a new Windows 10 license? 

On my Windows 7 computer I have 2 drives, C: and D:. On C: drive I have my system installation, and on the D: drive I have my personal data. I want to sync data between C: and D: on the user folder, so everything will be in the same place, and I could treat D: files path as C: drive. Is there any way to do that? 

after you have attached the device and make sure you use the device that was listed in dmesg. If you are ok with erasing everything on the device (I assume you are) I would just 

As far as I am aware you will not accomplish this without a little bit of programming or finding a custom app that someone else has created to do this. $URL$ contains information on a command line utility that will allow you to create a shortcut to do what you are looking for In particular look on the blog where they go into detail regarding the following options: They give you examples on how to make a shortcut to call the program using the above parameters to do exactly what you are after. As I've not tried this before I'm not sure how well it works, but if you are having some trouble with the scripting program I am sure myself or others would be able to help. Incase something happens to the above blog, the location of the actual utility is here $URL$ 

I have two Excel (.xls) files that I'm comparing using Beyond Compare 3. When a record is different, it's messing up the alignment, and it doesn't fix itself for several records, so I'd like to manually realign the compare. According to their help, I right-click on a line and choose align. Except that align isn't on the right-click menu. Why? I'm comparing as 'Detected (MS Excel Workbooks)', Showing All. 

So, you have Windows Vista, and these are probably icons on the desktop that appear momentarily after login and then disappear. And it only happens every 2 weeks or so. Is there anything in your start menu or some task that starts that might be causing this? I would think something that is trying and failing to completely start might be at fault, but that should happen on every startup. So, perhaps something that is starting, and trying to do a periodic update is at fault. Perhaps a registry cleanup will help. As for praying to Saint William -- that will only work if you pay him well. If you don't pay the exorcist, your computer is likely to be repossessed! 

First thing that I would do is to go to the computer that it does not work on, run each command from cmd.exe one after another and see which step does not complete its task like it should. Once we can narrow it down to which step is having problems it might be easier to find out what is going wrong on that machine. If everything works fine when you manually run each command then I would guess that one of the variables is not setting itself correctly on the other machine. 

Your easiest option to display messages to users connecting to your Wireless network will be through setting up a captive portal. You will redirect the users HTTP request, whatever it is and force them to go to a page of your choosing instead. Usually, they will have to stay on this page until they authenticate (login, click accept, etc). This will force every user to see your message. The easiest way to setup a basic, Welcome to my Wifi, type message would be to purchase an Access Point or Router that has this ability built in. You can set this up manually, but that will be more involved. If you would like to go that route let us know and I can post some information to get you started.