Not all together happy with how this post turned out, but I've learned things that I didn't know before, so that's good. For example, normally if two nodes (A and B) are connected to a switch which is on the downstream side of another device like your firewall, the switch will route packets from A -> B and vise versa without contacting anything upstream (from @Tedwin). I decided to post my own answer with the good parts from the comments with @Panther Modern. 

In this case, the hidden switch doesn't come into play. I'm running tests now and the loop is from a host on the left side of the diagram to the right side. Thanks for the feedback on this question. I was hoping to get some more concrete feedback, but I suppose since this is a tricky question, more troubleshooting is in need. Regarding gear... I've been considering a managed switch. I see that Cisco has some 10-port gigabit managed switches for under $200, which seems reasonable to me. My question is would it help to replace the 16-port unmanaged switch with a 10-port managed switch? I know that this would allow for better troubleshooting in the future, but would it also help me bottleneck issues? 

Let's say I have a /27 allocation from my ISP, and let's call it: 90.10.200.32/27 The ISP have their router set up as my gateway on address 90.10.200.33. The range 90.10.200.34-62 are free for me to allocate. I need to add a routed subnet behind this network, that is reachable from the internet. Can I do this by dividing my prefix? Something like this: 

I connect a router to the ISP network and give it the address 90.10.200.34/28, and set it's gateway to 90.10.200.33 I configure another interface of the route for the address 90.10.200.49/28, and connect devices to this interface, assigning them addresses in the 90.10.200.50-62 range. 

I do not have control over routing tables on the ISP router (90.10.200.33). Is it possible to do this, or something like it without BGP? As far as I can tell, outbound routing would work fine, but I am confused as to whether to ISP router, which obviously only knows about the /27 will be able to direct packets to 90.10.200.34 for the 90.10.200.48/28 network. Is there another way to do this that does not involve BGP or having the ISP alter the configuration of their router? Edit: Just to make it clear, the question is whether this is possible without the ISP changing the routing table on their equipment. As such, what I really want to know is whether this form of subnetting can be done "transparently", so to speak, without altering the configuration of the next upstream device. 

it sound like , connection-oriented or connection less are the conditions need to be meted before any signal transfer but multiplexing (TDM , FDM , CDM ...etc) are the way of transfer the signal after the link establishment. connection-oriented means that the connection need to be granted from end to end before any data or signal transfer (TCP is connection orignted , source will never send the next session until the first one is granted to be delivered ) connectionless means no dedicated path or BW or end to end grantee is needed (UDP is connectionless protocol where all the session will be delivered regardless what session is doped) 

for the first part of your question For Cisco device There are 16 privilege levels 3 of them are default and the other are configurable . the default as you said Privilege level 0 — includes the disable, enable, exit, help, and logout commands. Privilege level 1 — Normal level on Telnet; includes all user-level commands at the router> prompt. Privilege level 15 — includes all enable-level commands at the router# prompt. *Commands available at a particular level in a particular router can be found by typing a ? at the router prompt. * Router>show privilege Current privilege level is 1 Router>enable 5 Password: level-5-password Router#show privilege Current privilege level is 5 Router# You can configure whatever privilege you need with whatever commands you allow by using the privilege command as illustrated. privilege mode {level level command | reset} command the highest privilege level can execute commands that associated to it plus the the command associated to the lower privilege example username user_9 privilege 9 password pass_1 username user_6 privilege 6 password pass_6 username user_15 privilege 15 password pass_15 privilege configure level 8 snmp-server community privilege exec level 6 show running privilege exec level 8 configure terminal User user_6 is able to Telnet in and execute the show run command, but the resulting configuration is virtually blank because this user cannot configure anything (configure terminal is at level 8, not at level 6). The user is not permitted to see usernames and passwords of the other users, or to see Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) information. User user_9 is able to Telnet in and execute the show run command, but only sees commands that he can configure (the snmp-server community part of the router configuration, since this user is our network management administrator). He can configure snmp-server community because configure terminal is at level 8 (at or below level 9), and snmp-server community is a level 8 command. The user is not permitted to see usernames and passwords of the other users, but he is trusted with the SNMP configuration. 

For the most control over your networking environment, I'd say get your own switch and router in the rack and have the ISP assign you a new public IP for your office only. But then, it really depends on your needs. 

But when I do so, I get large amounts of TCP retransmissions and duplicate ACKs when clients from the other end of the tunnel tries to route through R1, and performance is obivously very low. What am I missing? Is it simply not possible to do something like this, where R1 is both a default gateway, and provides the VPLS interface? Will I need to use another router to terminate the VPLS connections? I should note that the VPLS tunnel itself is working as expected, as is any client that is connected directly to S1 and using R1 as a gateway. It is only when R1 is connected to S1 both via the normal interface and the VPLS interface that things go awry. 

There is several different approaches you could take. The best solution depends on your needs. In my answers I assume that your office has wall-mounted ethernet sockets, that currently connect directly to the central switch(es). 

The 7940 IP phone fails to perform the boot process correctly this problem could be When you examine the sniffer trace between the DHCP server and the phone, you can identify that the phone accepts a DHCP offer from the data VLAN (the native VLAN) instead of the voice VLAN. full resolution for this problem could be found in this article IP Phone 7940/7960 Fails to Boot 

the size of traffic and number of connections made: - from local users to servers and vise versa. - from internet users to servers and servers response. will determine so far if your firewall is small or big enough to handle them all, so if you are sure that your firewall is smaller than enough, you don't have to install it to meet those few conditions. - regarding to Local can access servers once you configure interfaces with suitable IPs it will be done. - regarding to internet can access servers with limited ports and cannot connect to local network you can publish them via NAT configurations on the router with port number as desired and ACL will handle the access rights as well. please make use of this example 

I have a small business network () with a pfSense firewall (about 20 hosts: mix of Windows, Macs and Linux machines and printers...). The ISP modem from the WWW connects to the firewall which connects to a 16-port switch, and all the workstations/servers/printers connect to other switches downstream. All the switches (except for the hidden, because I'm not sure) are Netgear ProSafe (5-, 8- and 16-port) gigabit switches (unmanaged). What I'm trying to accomplish are two things: First, if someone is streaming video or up/down-loading a large file through the Internet, this bogs down the entire network, so I'd like to set it up so this doesn't affect others on the network. Second, if someone transfers a large file to/from a file server on the LAN (not through the Internet), this also bogs down the network, so I'd also like to set it up so this doesn't affect others on the network. A common use case is like this: I have one user uploading files to a file share service on the web (via HTTP/HTTPS) and another user accessing an Apache web server on the subnet (on ) and the user on the subnet accessing the web server sees really slow responses for the web app (to the extent that sometimes it times out). When the file is done, accessing the web server is normal again. One additional side-question that has been bothering me... If I have a layer-2 unmanaged switch and it stands in the way of two workstations or servers that communicate with one another, am I correct in my understanding that the switch will log the MAC addresses and route traffic without contacting the firewall? I should note as well that the speeds I usually see with a speed test are: 

most of the time convergence is describe like routing or even like spanning tree . if we have 4 states like spanning tree ->->-> so turning from blocking to forwarding that what is called full convergence but if the process interrupted in any certain state that can't be called convergence and the whole of the process will rebuild after certain time 

WISP Setup Provider (Wireless Internet Service Provider) with networks built around wireless networking. Technology may include commonplace Wi-Fi wireless mesh networking, or proprietary equipment designed to operate over open band 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, 4.9, 5.2, 5.4, 5.7, and 5.8 GHz bandsor licensed frequencies in the UHF band (including the MMDS frequency band) and LMDS 

The BFD session will only be created by an application for which the application adjacency/neighbour exists. 

They are logical L3 interfaces so called (SVI = switched virtual interfaces) they provide layer 3 services (a gateway) to corresponding L2 Vlan.the L2 vlan can be associated to one or multiple switch ports of the module and they are configured like in an IOS LAN switch. Vlan interfaces are a form of logical interfaces like loopbacks but: an SVI vlan 10 can be up/up only if at least one switch port is up and associated to vlan 10 (including trunk ports and actually the correct definition is at least one port in Spanning tree state forwarding). Note: this is true for real switches it can be false for these modules on routers (the internal trunk between router and module can be enough to make the L3 SVI to stay up) First of all the corresponding L2 object Vlan has to be created, it is likely that you should use vlan database context as you did