Cyberlink has a free utility that's intended to assess Blu-Ray and 3D playback readiness. While you're asking about the more general case of HDCP compatibility, period, the requirements are essentially the same and this will even break down component by component what the problem is. 

Are you certain that the new panel works at all? Basically there are two possibilities here - the panel is not correctly attached in the sense that something isn't seated properly, or something's wrong with it. Third possibility is that you forgot to reconnect something - as long as the inverter card and cable are reinstalled that should be pretty much it, though. Fourth possibility is that you damaged something but that's unlikely. If the screen is unlit but you can make out an image with strong illumination your backlight isn't cutting on and probably the inverter isn't reinstalled properly. (There also may be a bad backlight on the panel but that's unlikely.) 

It's possible it might hasten its demise, but unless it's very cheap it's unlikely to actually cause this kind of problem in and of itself. Inverters going out on consumer laptops after a few years is not all that uncommon, I'm afraid. 

It'll work fine; I have built many machines with automatic software backup from SSD to HDD and it's perfectly bootable. The ONLY thing I could see being an issue is if the drives are on different SATA controllers (specifically, ones using a different AHCI driver). 

There are exact specifications for this, but unfortunately I don't know anywhere to get them for these chips...I'm sure they are someplace in the labyrinth that is Intel's website and hopefully someone else can provide them (and they'll get a big fat +1 from me.) That said, this varies from chip to chip, but 80°C isn't outrageous under load on a chip like that. I'd try to avoid it 24/7 but I think you're okay for brief spurts (I routinely burn-in chips at that temp); any higher is probably cause for concern though. 

Does this card need any 6-pin or 8-pin power leads? Make sure they're connected. Are you sure the card works at all? Try it in another machine. I'm not familiar with this exact motherboard, but there's also a slight possibility you need to disable the onboard graphics in the BIOS for the card to work. I would think on any X58 board it would be the other way around, though. (Even if that's the case, on most boards it should still SHOW UP, so that's kind of odd.) 

Taking your question at face value, you don't need to do anything; the system will just see them as regular hard drives. It is important to make sure your partitions are aligned correctly to the blocks (Windows Vista and 7 do this by default but XP does NOT, I'll assume you're not using XP though) and it's required to run in AHCI mode for TRIM support - you change this in the BIOS, generally under the SATA configurations. The drives will WORK without doing either of these things though. 

If you're in the 60s you are probably okay with pretty much any modern piece of hardware that is in proper working order, and actually has active cooling (a fan as opposed to just fins). This isn't exactly apples-to-oranges, but I have a Quadro 5000 across the room from me that costs the better part of $2K, and it's pulling 85­°C right now and I couldn't be less concerned. 

Windows 7 doesn't natively have tagging of any sort aside from a few file formats that already support it in the file specifications (like, say, mp3 which has the ID3 tagging specification). You can add FOLDERS to libraries, but to do individual files like you want it will require a third-party application. 

Unless you're a skilled electrician, this probably isn't worth your time. There are two possibilities here - either a failing backlight assembly, which might be an easily replaceable module if you can actually find one (I'm not familiar enough with this model to say but I'd doubt it) or more likely capacitor failure, which would require locating the failed capacitor(s) and soldering in replacements. If that's meaningless to you, then it's not something you should be trying on your own. 

I've seen this happen occasionally, and usually it's a problem with the initial monitor enumeration. Oftentimes changing to a much newer or older driver revision might fix it - specifically with that card, try removing the Nvidia driver ENTIRELY and just use the one that comes out-of-the-box with Windows 7. Alternatively, since this is only two monitors, you might just consider physically reversing the manner in which they're cabled (so it enumerates them in the opposite order). (If this has always been a problem with this machine, it's possible it's something screwy with this particular GPU, I guess. You could always use Displayfusion or Ultramon or something to automate the process of reversing the order of the screens with a hotkey or the like.) 

The clock speed of the CPU isn't based on the RTC, so you shouldn't see a change. Note that clock drift happens on computers even at normal clockspeeds anyway, because the RTC isn't perfect to begin with. Clock drift is normal and expected (although it shouldn't be significant on normal systems). 

While there are packs to allow limited language integration of the GUI, to my knowledge there's no way to carry this over to the tablet features. You either need to purchase Windows 7 Ultimate (easiest done through Windows Anytime Upgrade) or you need to purchase (I say purchase because I doubt you'll find a good one for free) a 3rd party Japanese handwriting recognition software. 

HDCP /can/ be supported on DVI, but it may not be in this case. It's also possible that it's the adapter causing the problem (if it's a passive dongle it probably won't work with HDCP). Try direct HDMI to HDMI. 

These monitors are DVI only, correct? You will need active DisplayPort to DVI converters to run at a full 2560x1600 resolution over the DisplayPort connections - something like this but you can probably get them a little cheaper. (They are still rather expensive, though.) This card has one DVI though, if I recall correctly, so you should only need one of these. 

The easiest approach, IMO, if somebody else is going to be using your machine and this is a privacy concern, is just to make them use a different user account. You also have the option of setting up separate Firefox profiles or having them use another browser entirely. EDIT: It looks like there's a plugin that will let you scramble your existing bookmarks behind a password wall, if that's preferable for some reason. 

What are the motherboards in question? If there's a chipset difference, this could be the problem...that registry key just tells Windows that it should load an AHCI driver if you're running in AHCI mode (note that you can change it and continue to boot in IDE indefinitely...) but if there's ALREADY an AHCI driver loaded, but it needs a different one, it may not be smart enough to do that. You can't get to Startup Recovery...I assume you can't get to Safe Mode? Can you boot to the disk or recovery in IDE mode? I can't think of any other fixes that wouldn't involve slaving the drive to another OS and making some offline changes (and I'm unsure of details). 

Assuming that a lot of that is stuff initializing and going into memory from the disk, upgrading to a solid state drive is the single biggest thing you can do. (This is a big assumption without knowing specifics of what your hardware and software is though.) 

Lenovo conducted a usability study and this won, apparently. (I used to work for them and this is what we were told.) All the machines that have this now have the ability to swap it in the BIOS. 

Does it work if you disable the internal monitor and enable the external monitor? This is the normal behavior if you try to activate concurrent displays that can't be active - most laptops will give this behavior if you try to activate two external displays while leaving the internal enabled (since most laptops only support two video outputs). It's possible that this laptop only supports one simultaneous video output but I don't know enough about Macs to say that - it seems odd, but it would fit the behavior you're seeing. It's also possible this is a result of the driver you're using. 

I'm guessing you almost always have a browser open, like a lot of folks I know. I've seen this problem in both Internet Explorer and Firefox when running a browser on a display attached to a secondary GPU. The fix for that is to disable hardware acceleration in the browser - it doesn't always play nicely with DWM for some reason. (I seriously doubt you'll see any performance hit as a result of this). It's possible there are other things going on, but some idea of what's ALWAYS running would be helpful to pin it down.