Doesn't solve your imediate problem but given your title LISP would most definitely allow for a user to have one ip address in various "zones" although it probably still a bit complex for work/home usage. 

I have used the Cisco interface range commands on many occasions to disable a large number of switching ports when the device is originally deployed as a once off and am looking for something similar in Junos. I don't want to use apply-groups or the juniper interface-range command set as there changes are permanent and to be honest it would confuse the Tier-1 / Tier 2 staff , aka inherited config is hidden by default and therefore will likely get missed when troubleshooting. I am just looking for verification that there is no way to do this natively before I look at using slax to create a custom command. 

Currently unit numbers above 16K are reserved for special purpose use only. Not possible to allow these units for regular interfaces. Please contact your Juniper SE if you need higher number available to work on a enhancement request. 

Below baseline exhibits where VJX4 has 3 equal iBGP paths to 77/22 where 172.65.65.11 – VJX1 is the current preferred path 

In essence we purchase a 80/20 line from the carrier who provides the transport between the customer premises & the local exchange where the carrier terminates into our PE. (Juniper PE) <--> [Carrier interconnect in Exchange <---> NTE in customer property] <---> (Cisco CPE - 881,1921,1941,2921)) The circuit between the customer property and the local street cabinet is still copper and therefore as the noise/distance increases the speed reduces. the actual line speed negotiation is taking place on the carriers NTE not our CPE. how can I ensure that when the link is saturated priority packets don't get dropped , without actually knowing what the line speed has authenticated to ? can something be done with ipsla ? 

a client currently has a /23 PI space where the route-object is currently managed by ISP-A we want to split the PI space into two /24's but not certain on how best to go about this. 

Have a look at NTOP I used this in smaller enterprise deployments to find and identify possible flow anomalies. 

VJX 0,1,3 are setup to be RR’s for this simple test , i want to know why link p5 is always preferred even though the physical next-hop changes , and the IGP path to the next-hop is is not via p5 ... 

When I completed SRX clustering across the EX's switches, I found the specific Juniper AppNote below quite insightful in gaining understanding of all the various requirements. 

Trying to get my head round how best to achieve the above In essence we have s speed test server that is available in the CPE's global routing table , that we would like the customer in VRF X to test against , however due to the fact that customer X is using RFC1918 in their VRF we want to nat all LAN traffic destined to the speed server only via the WAN address ( with is public) located in global table. CPE's are ISR (881,19x1,29x1) running 15.1.4M6 Also due to the fact that we want to use this to test the speed to the broadband circuit I would if possible like to reduce the Nat effect on the cpu , but that’s is not the primary objective. in summary I am looking for a way to share the server with numerous mpls VRF that have overlapping RFC1918 addressing. is this on the right track ? 

In Junos when you use a it displays the routing tables , starting with inet.0 ( global routing table) and then listing each VRF in alphabetic order. I am after a similar command , for the following reason , new WAN deployment: remote engineer to verify VRF connectivity without plugging in the LAN, therefore I want to list the mandatory routes that are mandatory in each VRF ( e.g. 0/0 ). I know I can achieve this with but this does not display the global routing table , and that is currently used for management. in Junos I would run which would display all occurrences of the specified route in every VRF across the device including inet.0 

Some implementations set the ATT bit automatically and provide you a command or knob under a configuration stanza to disable it. i.e on Juniper: ignore-attached-bit 

I assume you just meant like any packet for which the MAC is not known. ARP (address resolution protocol) would take place for this matter. Below is a high level working of ARP operation. 

This process indeed takes effect with the usage of DBD packets as well as Type 3, 4 and 5 packets. let's see what each one contains: 

Both routes were External type 2, advertised the route as an OSPF E1, E1 is always preferred over E2 and this solved the issue. 

Based on your router specs -Interno DG200A- the answer is No. The best you can do with that device is some CoS to assign voice, video or other traffic to queues and prioritize/mark as needed. Check starting page 40 on the User Guide. For something more detailed or granular as you have requested the option would be to put another device in front of the router that can handle this or if you have some admin control over the users PC's, then check what specs does the OS provide for your needs. 

Steps taken from SRX650 Services Gateway Hardware Guide, you can also see the sampling of the above steps if in doubt. System default security Deny all transit traffic. 

Strictly speaking LSA T1 has only area scope so say for example routers in A0 will all eventually receive the Router LSA, now for that information to be carried to other area like A1 you would need a T3. 

Withing your AS if you have link redundancy and the peering IP is reachable via IGP then you shouldn't have an issue. If by this you mean to routing traffic from one group to the other through the ISP there shouldn't be an issue as well as long the ISP is aware that certain routes are not available over the interface where it is receiving it, so if you are advertising for example a /16 summary then you will probably have issues as the ISP will determine in it's table that the shortest path to that network is directly connected. 

Finally let us recall that although PT is good for learning it is somewhat limited. For more advance research, testing and learning GNS3 might be a good option for you. Cheers! EDIT ADDED FROM HERE BELOW I have just got my hands with PT Version 7.0.0.0306, issue with PC is the same it only allows one network module to be installed and hence one IP. However, something I noticed on the newer version and forgot to check on the old version is that the server does indeed support the adding of two cards, hence two IP addresses. Unfortunately that does still not accomplish what you are looking for: 

However R10 does not have one being advertised, hence you are missing the network x.x.x.x config. Cisco IOS IP Routing: BGP Command Reference 

Factory default security policies Trust to trust permit, trust to untrust permit, untrust to trust deny 

End election is validated when no more better (lower BID's) are received from neighbor switches. When the switches first come up, they start the root switch selection process. Each switch transmits a BPDU to the directly connected switch on a per-VLAN basis. The Configuration BPDU has the BID (bridge priority and unique device identifier) and it used during initial setup to find out who will be the root bridge. Lower is preferable. Recall the STP states: 

Finally got my hands on PT version 7. Yes indeed as pointed out by @Zac67 check the serial ports. From the file you shared and after changing serial ports IP subnet it will still not work. If you check both routers none display the letter 'R' for RIP routes in "show ip route", yet when you run "show ip protocols" it does say RIP is advertising for both subnets, it is even reflected when running the debug. If you check both routing tables, both see 10.0.0.0/8 directly connected. For some reason RIP is not liking this fact when updating the route sent from the other peer. Split Horizon seems to be the key because they are both advertising the same subnet 10.0.0.0/8, and as you know, this would create a loop unless a loop prevention mechanism takes place. Anyways I changed the subnet from the other set of PC's to 192.168.4.0 , added RIP as version 2 and it worked. The following link you can download the modified version of the lab. 

I also tried instead, but it doesn't work on FreeRADIUS, just barks at me (I saw this on resources for configuring on Microsoft NPS, one of these) . Also I tried values "802", 802, 6 for tunnel medium type. Also I tried to use actual VLAN name instead of VLAN-ID as Group ID value. Anyway its datatype is string. I configured the HP switch to use this RADIUS server for AAA and set this up for port 10: 

and the Windows will just say: which is kind of confusing too. Didn't quite get it to work with unknown VLANs in spite of the fact GVRP was enabled, was set and I also explicitly set on interface 10, but oh well...nvm. 

I have a quick question regarding MSTP: Do all the switches in an MSTP domain should agree to which VLANs are mapped to an instance? Being that dumb, I've just caused an outage by just simply creating a VLAN and adding it to an instance on one of the two core switches. Can you explain what happened when I did that, just want to understand that? Did I have to first add it as a tagged VLAN on the trunk between the core switches? What is the correct procedure to add a VLAN to MSTP domain? What I did that caused the trouble: 

What could be wrong? Doesn't it work with servers that are domain members? Update I was actually able to login by specifying an IP address instead of a DNS name when connecting. Also I had to use notation to login, otherwise it does not work. The DNS is reachable for sure as it works with the other server 

Questions: What am I doing wrong? I've read in a bunch of resources that if the RADIUS assigns a VLAN ID switch uses that in the first place. Then it falls back to Authorized VLAN configured for Port-Access Authenticator if authentication succeeds. If that is not present it assigns Untagged VLAN configured on the port. Why don't I get that behavior? I kind of start to think the attribute is not supported on these switches. It seems every resource refers to instead (configuring on Microsoft). Too bad I don't have Windows Server to check. Maybe it's firmware related? Didn't try to upgrade yet, I use RA_15_06_0009.swi and there's RA_15_14_0007.swi out there already 

After that I unplugged and plugged in the cable and did and here is the copy-paste of it. It's weird, nothing is said about any attributed related to VLAN. 

Firewall configuration: Firewall configuration not included, however, all traffic is permitted as follows: 

I need assistance configuring VPN setup between Fortigate and Juniper devices (GRE over IPSec). I have the topology as follows: 

Also, if you want it to work, you have to create all required VLANs on the switch, otherwise you'll get this kind of stuff: 

Update Just tried on a model and still doesn't work. So.. I'd guess, switches just don't get the config from the RADIUS server (or did I use incorrect attributes or operators?). How can I troubleshoot that? 

This is what I saw in TCPdump on the RADIUS server. I was capturing outgoing UDP traffic with source port 1812. It's what my switch gets (if it does actually, not sure how to check that...) 

I was not hoping any more to ever get it working and then I reconnected and... it happened, just randomly and I'm so excited now! I got assigned a VLAN dynamically: Debug: 

Please, advise if this kind of setup could at all work and what could be wrong here? I played with local/remote identities and could get IPSec to come up, show up in security-association table, however, never could get GRE interface to come up and have pingable remote address. Neither I could ping remote loopback via IPSec tunnel. If any debug/output needed to troubleshoot just post in comments. Thanks! Maybe you have some good resource on setting this up? Was not able to find anything on Fortinet/Juniper websites that would be helpful to setup between these two vendors. You can definitely find ones to setup with Cisco. Note: addresses used are not public, but allocated for use in example code: $URL$ 

Firewall configuration: Firewall configuration not included, however, all traffic is permitted as follows: