I need a psychiatrist for my PC. It is convinced it is an iMac (sort of). Seriously: I have a problem which popped up apparently from nowhere, most likely due to some upgrade with "side effects", but I really do not know what happened. Granted, I have a rather convolute setup: 

In order to preserve all user/group/permissions steps 2..4 must be done under fakeroot. Catch is rsync uses ssh for communication (and I want it to!) and thus, being "fakerooted" it tries to open root credentials (in /root/.ssh/), failing badly. The following set of options work for me. 

In the end I added both DNS "special server" and additional static routes to my main dnsmasq (on my firewall) and everything works as needed as soon as the VPN Virtual Machine is up-and-running. Actual lines added to my dnsmasq.conf are: 

It's sounding like the primary monitor for your laptop got reset back to the laptop's screen. You'll need to set the primary monitor to your external monitor and you can find the instructions for that here. Of note, this will probably help resolve your issue with moving to Windows 7 as well. You can find instructions for Windows 7 here. If you're still having issues with the monitors, then the graphics card drivers for your laptop are altering the settings behind your back and you'll need to use the program that controls the graphics settings to change your monitors around. If you still can't get it to work, then you can try a docking station and keep the lid of the laptop closed altogether so that it doesn't come on at all. Some docking stations have power buttons on them that allow you to keep the lid of the laptop closed and still be able to power them on. You'll need an external mouse and keyboard though if you go this route. 

Sure enough solves the issue, but it will be back at next VM boot. How can I set this permanently? (note I have no local xserver on VM, so I don't have a and similar files) I would also like to understand what happened. Can someone suggest where to look? 

This is working since years. Now suddenly my keyboard started "acting strange" just for X clients (plain ssh terminal is unaffected). After a lot of digging around I found something: this is the output of : 

create a temp directory unpack tar archive into it rysnc as needed if something changed locally repack int a new tar archive cleanup 

I have a router running, among other things, with standard setup, so I get DNS proxy plus additional local servers, plus name resolution for all machines whose IP address is managed via DHCP server. Servers and other hosts are on my domain So far so good. Now I need to connect via VPN to a customer site () who has a very similar setup (they are not using dnsmasq, but net effect is the same). I set up a small (virtual) machine acting as router forwarding (with NAT) from local network to IPSec device and added a few static routes to the (2) hosts needing to see customer.net; I did this manually instead of pushing the routes through dnsmasq. Also this seems to work without problems. Now I have the last problem I don't know how to solve: I can access machines in private address space only specifying the IP address, no DNS resolution is available from How can I access without losing connection with ? NOTE: I can modify my setup (I would prefer to limit changes to the few hosts actually involved), but I have no control on Situation I would like to have is: 

If you were reading a post, such as this, then you have nothing to fear as those posts are letting people know that MS is trying to force people to use the latest version of Windows. Even if a processor manufacturer were to make something that's "Windows Exclusive" the Linux kernel hackers would probably laugh and enjoy the challenge of trying to make the kernel run on that processor. So long as the processor is using the standard x86 or better, the x86_64 architectures, then the Linux flavor of your choice should run just fine on it. There has been a large number of, "Windows Only" hardware out there, such as the Xbox, but people have gotten Linux to run on them. Edit: While the link below doesn't pertain to processor hardware per se, it does prove my point a little bit. There are plenty of people out there with the time and skills to break down whatever barriers corporations come up with, and the more popular it is, the faster it will get broken. $URL$ 

I have a very basic Win7 usage problem: My PC has an Italian keyboard, but I need to work with an US-English environment (Win7 is in English). Problem is in many programs (most notably in PowerPoint) system defaults to Italian settings (including dictionary checking) and I have to change them every time. This is particularly nasty in Power Point because I have to change Language in each TextBox I create. Need is to work with a full US-English Locale but to have a different Keyboard. I was unable to find the right setting (and the fact the laptop is actually French and Power Point templates I need to use come from Germany add confusion to chaos). Language bar seems to govern keyboard together all other Locale settings (which usually makes sense, of course). How can I separate them? Here are screenshots of relevant panels, as requested: --- NOTE: strange thing is everything seems to work as expected today, even if I do not recall changing anything since yesterday. Did the system need a restart to actualize settings? Anyways problem seems solved. Sorry for the noise. 

I know you were specifically looking for information on using μTorrent to transfer files, but here me out. If you're using Windows (Vista or higher), then there should be a built in program called Robocopy available to you. Robocopy is capable of transferring files over networks, and might be worth your while. When it detects that the transfer has stopped, it will make several attempts, (the default is set to 1 million retries waiting 30 seconds in between attempts), to continue transferring the file(s). You can also make it wait a certain amount of time before sending packets to the destination as well, which basically limits the transfer speed if desired. It's very flexible and could be exactly what you need to transfer your files. Personally, I wouldn't use the tracker option you have set up right now as it's a potential security risk, not to mention anyone that sniffs your traffic would be able to see all of the pictures you're trying to sync. 

Is it possible to rsync a real filesystem (remote) with a tar archive (local)? If so, how? Problem is I need to correctly backup user/group/permission settings and, while I have root access on remote I would like to avoid running as root on the local machine. My first (and foremost) usage case would be to update a remote embedded target (ARM9) from a .tar produced by Buildroot. I do not have the "real thing" on disk (I can produce a copy while being root) and I would like to avoid transferring the whole rootfs to update a few files. 

I need to reach remote sparse machines (ARM Linux Appliances) for maintenance and support. All these machines are Customer owned and plugged into their own private LANs (where I have no privilege), normally behind a light firewall NATting the LAN to the Internet. Interaction should be started by Customer (from the Arm Linux Appliance) requesting assistance. Customers (with few exceptions) are not really technically minded, so I can not ask them any setup, just "press that button" when They call me. I do Have an Internet-exposed server I can use as rely, but my main development machine is behind another NATting router/firewall. All I need is basic console access (Appliances have no KVM) via ssh or equivalent. I tried several available solutions (n2n, tinc, pwnat), but I must be missing something essential because all solutions install with no problem, seem to connect to their net (ifconfig shows traffic), but then they do not appear to work (I cannot ping Appliance). I also noticed the above software is quite old, sometimes obsoleted. What is the current advised "best practice"? I am aware of LogMeIn (and I will evaluate it), but I would like, if at all possible, to avoid incurring in costly royalties. 

It sounds as if the SSD is shorting something out when there is pressure on it. From my experiences that is BAD. I'd take it back to wherever you got it and see if they'll fix it, that should not happen at all. If you want to do it yourself, knowing what type of drive it is will help you make your purchase. I would get a new SSD, copy the data over and then think about what to do with the old SSD. The Dell you listed has two possible storage locations from what I read on their site, so I'm not sure which one you're talking about, but I'm mostly sure it's the mSATA that you're having issues with. More details about the SSD are needed though. EDIT: Before I forget, backup your data before doing anything. There's a chance you might loose stuff because of a bad SSD, there's an even better chance of you loosing things from mediocre computer techs just swapping out your drives and not caring about your data at all.