If you are running a network with multiple DHCP servers you will have problems. You should have a single DHCP server. You could run multiple DHCP servers, if you had some reason to do so (although I find it difficult to think of a reason) provided they run non-overlapping ranges. You DO NOT need to tell the Pi which DNS server to use, your network DHCP server/s should provide the appropriate settings, including DNS (this is what DHCP is for). 

I assume you get similar when booting to the command prompt. I suggest you works there to get it right, as the GUI can cause additional issues. It is probable that your monitor does not support the resolution the Pi expects. You can troubleshoot this to find what modes it supports. Enter the following command to give a list of CEA supported modes 

All of these "tutorials" are obsolete. (Note they can still be used if you want to use the older style of manual configuration, but this requires detailed knowledge.) If you are running a recent Raspbian /etc/network/interfaces should be as below. If you have changed it PUT IT BACK. 

Firstly, I cannot help but wonder why you would want to do this. I find a directly attached disk using Firewire 800 slow enough, let alone over the network. Initial backup can take hours. However, I would suggest that you first attempt the access the disk from Finder using Appletalk. I use 

Goldilocks comments are correct. The easiest solution is to use (or the GUI equivalent if already in GUI) to boot to the console. 

"Is there a problem with my setup?" It depends; asssuming you are using Raspbian Jessie, you appear to have successfully set static IP according to what you have specified in , but we have no way of knowing if this is correct, although I may ask WHY? See How do I set up networking/WiFi/Static IP You should use rather than the deprecated . This provides the same information, but is much clearer. 

You have several questions above. Firstly, just plugging an ethernet cable into the Macbook won't work. The ethernet won't have an IP address (as can be verified by on the Mac). There are ways to make it work, but the easiest is just to plug the Pi's ethernet into your router. Secondly, don't use . This is a Windows protocol, and while Linux has an implementation, the protocol has problems. You would be better to use which is natively supported by 'NIX. Thirdly, it depends on exactly what you are trying to achieve. If the goal is to transfer files between the Pi and Macbook you could install on the Pi and use to connect between the two; this also gives you as a bonus. I suggest you revise your question and possibly break it up into discrete parts after you decide what you are trying to achieve. PS You will never get the same speeds on a Pi. Your Mac and Ubuntu are probably using Gigabit ethernet. All Pi data goes through the bottleneck of the USB controller. 

That battery is probably overkill, but could be used. DO NOT even try using a resistor. This will destroy the Pi. You need a 5V regulator; I suggest a Switch Mode power module. There are readily available inexpensive modules which take a higher voltage, and produce a well regulated 5V. See Raspberry Pi Power Limitations for more info. 

You can use up to 8 MCP23017 to give 128 pins. I have never actually done this, as I find it hard to conceive a project that would require so many - and which couldn't be managed in a better way 

Change to which is the correct syntax for Device Tree overlays. Don't go fiddling with - Device Tree should set that up on boot. 

You can prevent from configuring an interface by editing Add to the end of the file (but above any other added interface lines) and save the file. 

This is not an answer, in the sense that it will tell you how to "fix" your system, but will explain why it failed, and may help you recover. If you have a backup image, restore this. (It is prudent to make a backup on ANY system before upgrading.) The packages which caused problems are:- 

The answer by @patrick-cook will work, but if you disabled console in and rebooted this should already have done the same thing. Something else may be in play. Possibilities include copying from a Pi3 which disables the default serial port by default through in . (This is likely to become the default in newer releases.) In any event you should no longer use but which is the default serial port on all models. 

You can use external card to connect to another network. I have done this, although it is not without its problems. As goldilocks has indicated there are routing issues. You may also find the interfaces are not always allocated to the same or . This can be solved by writing rules (but this is somewhat complex). 

There are many modules which can be used. I recommend a switch mode power supply. are one such (designed for RC models) but there are cheaper alternatives. One word of warning. Motor vehicles are a hostile operating environment. Unless the Pi is to be totally isolated you need to take precautions to prevent voltage spikes and interference. 

The first step you SHOULD always check after downloading is to verify the checksum. The error suggests the image is incomplete. This may be due to a download error OR imaging program limitation. Recent versions of Raspbian are packaged differently, and the images do NOT have 4MB blocks. This caused many imaging programs to write incomplete images, as they did not write the last, incomplete, block. I don't know if has this problem, but it definitely works using the Foundation recommended imager which writes incomplete blocks. PS When writing an image there is NO NEED to format - the image will replace anything on the card, including the partitioning. 

Yes, it will work — at least for a little while. An alkaline AA battery has a capacity of 450mAh so you could only expect to run the Pi for 30-60 minutes. 

Your looks OK and includes the which should have it scan hidden networks, but you never call it. Include the following in your 

The "best" solution is to mount the drives explicitly, and unmount before shutting down, rather than relying on automount and tidying up the mess after. Create a rule in to mount the drives in a dedicated folder. I use the following to mount one of my drives, although you will need to substitute settings appropriate for your drives. 

I don't know what you actually did but you can't format a 512 GB as . The maximum size of is 32 GiB and files are limited to 4 GiB. Larger drives can use but I am unsure if Raspbian supports these. In any event any kind of FAT is totally unsuited to a large drive. Use a more sensible format. is best for Linux, but macOS doesn't support this. 

You have not specified OS, and the information posted is incomplete; however some things are clear. indicates which introduced Predictable Network Interface Names (even if disabled 3 weeks later). The file appears to be a modified (or possibly ) file which is incompatible with the configuration on . (The first rule is to ALWAYS make a copy of configuration files BEFORE modifying them.) How to set up networking/WiFi explains Raspbian networking, and lists the default settings of the configuration files. Restoring these should make it work (if there are no other incompatible changes). 

There is no Yes/No answer to this question. Yes the 7805 CAN supply 1A, although it would require a substantial heatsink if supplied with 12V. A suitable heatsink would probably cost more than a switch mode PSU. In the bad old days (1970s) it was a real challenge to design microprocessor PSU. The Pi0W is unlikely to consume 1A, depending on what is connected, but can easily use more to run peripherals. 

If you actually followed the (unfortunately poorly explained) resize process it should have worked. (It has each time I have done it.) You probably did something wrong - the prompts are easy to get wrong. If you are writing an image to the card it makes NO DIFFERENCE how the card is formatted, or indeed if it is formatted at all. 

No. The SOC actually requires other voltages (especially 1.8V which runs most of the Pi). These are all derived internally from the 5V supply with a couple of switch mode regulators. 

The default USB current for Pi2 is 600mA which can be doubled by setting in . Of course, this only helps if the power supply is adequate. WiPi does not need excessive current - I use with my Pi2. You need to provide more detail. What PSU? What lights are on etc. 

You may also find it useful to copy an SSH key to the Pi so you don't need to enter a password each time you connect. To do that, first check if you've already got a public ssh keyfile: 

will stop (deactivate) dhcpcd will prevent it from restarting. Having said the above, I think this is a bad idea. There are a few different network managers in use on Pi under Linux. performs well, and has been chosen by the Foundation for good reasons. On another point, you should get used to . It is now used by most GNU/Linux distributions. is still partially used, but on the way out. 

I found a solution. Include in This is listed in examples in although no explanation is given of what the function is. 

On the Pi you can set this in /boot/config.txt or on the boot partition on a Windows/Mac/Linux computer. See instructions in $URL$ 

Fallback profile It is possible to configure a static profile within dhcpcd and fall back to it when DHCP lease fails. This is useful particularly for headless machines, where the static profile can be used as "recovery" profile to ensure that it is always possible to connect to the machine. The static profile is setup as any other Static IP Address 

There is a bug in the latest image. It is NOT a complete number of blocks (as indicated by the +1). It should be possible to burn it by using parameters to write incomplete blocks (I have not tried this), but the current workaround is to use . Future images will consist of complete blocks. 

I just realised that provided you don't need to resize any partitions you can actually do it on the Mac. WARNING Make doubly sure that you don't accidentally write in the wrong place. The following script I wrote to rearrange Ubuntu MATE partitions and you should be able to adapt this to copy your data. NOTE All care BUT no responsibility, and you really need to understand partitioning! 

Either the power supply OR the cable is inadequate. (I make my own cables, because there is no source of adequate cables.) See Raspberry Pi Power Limitations 

The traditional solution to this problem is a watchdog timer. This requires a small amount of external hardware.