You could implement something similar to the Elo rating system, which is used to calculate the relative skill levels of different players. Applying this to the pokémon instead of the players, would allow you to see how they compare to the pokémon to each other and adjust accordingly. I don't have any idea how pokémon works, but you mention that the battles have a list so I guess there are multiple pokémon per battle? Without more information on how much time each of them played or some metric that tells you their involvement in the battle I guess you would just have to divide the wins/losses evenly among the pokémon in the list when calculating their score. Do keep in mind that balancing is notoriously difficult. And you'll still need to find some way to factor the player's skills out of the equation. 

Intentionally causing a crash is a somewhat irresponsible way to develop software. Instead of actually making the game crash, simulate a crash. Use messed up graphics, fake BSOD, etc. Then simply close the application. This approach allows you to have far more control over the style of the crash. Further, it doesn't introduce potential consequences of forcing an application crash on the end user's computer. 

Once you've finalized your texture, create a hash of the file. Store that hash somewhere else in assets. When the level is loaded, create a new hash when you load the texture and compare it to the hash created when you finalized. If the hashes are different, the file has been altered. Further, you might really consider what your motivation is for preventing modification of the game. Some people like to tinker with their games. This is a common behavior and often rewarding, and if the effect is negative, it only ruins the experience for the tinkerer. If your game is multiplayer and competitive, you'll probably want to make some efforts to prevent modification. However, this quickly becomes a diminishing returns type situation. The more advanced your anti-hack, the smaller the target audience is (because fewer people have the skills to perform advanced hacking). This means that the most challenging work you can put into preventing hacking is only going to stop the smallest number of users. You may want to focus your efforts on simple, broad changes that prevent casual hacking. It's more important that you finish your game and it's fun to play, then preventing a small fraction of its players from cheating. 

You appear to be lighting with a linear attenuation (your light intensity is dropping off linearly). You may want to try using the inverse square law. Or a simple exponential fall off. 

TL;DR The author is not suggesting you implement this in your game. He's telling you that the precision will be slow changing, but bad. This means the you're using to track your game time would start at 2^32. Because setting the number that large to start with, whatever you add on to it in the next 136 years, won't change the exponent. Though, the precision will remain constant, it doesn't mean it's better. The precision gets worse the larger the number. Starting with a large number just means that the precision won't change over the life of the counter, but the precision is worse than starting with a small number. If you started at the exponent would change frequently at first, meaning the precision changes frequently. Concrete example: 

Start by learning how to rotate an object around an arbitrary axis, for this you might check out a simple rotation example someone has already implemented. Since the mouse only moves in two dimensions, and there are three dimensions available for rotation, you'll have to decide how you want map those two dimensions to three dimensions of rotation. One of the simpler strategies is to use the camera axis to rotate the object. Essentially, regardless of the orientation of the cube, you will always rotate it as if it had the same axis orientation as your camera. So, moving the mouse left or right rotates around the y axis, up/down around the x axis. Sometimes people will implement something like holding a modifier key, then moving the mouse to rotate around the z axis. 

Seems like it's just taking a "flat world" and mapping to cylindrical coordinates. Essentially wrapping the world on a cylinder. I did something similar with a flat world, but I wrapped it onto a sphere: 

Yes, this is possible. It's actually something people do regularly. You would probably better know the strategy by the name Trojan Horse. This is a method that hackers and other people with ill intent do with their software to install programs that the user doesn't actually want. The extra software they install is typically used for collecting information the user doesn't want to give, installing a bot net client or some other harmful software. It's highly recommend you don't participate this this activity. Users could easily see this as an attack. If you want to distribute software with a game, allow the user to choose to download the software separately. Strategies for implementing this functionality is most likely off topic for this site. Do keep in mind that if this is a tool that utilizes the players computer resources or internet, it does indeed cost them money. Processing takes electricity and some people have caps or pay-per-gigabyte data plans for their internet. It's always best to get full consent for any software you install. 

I believe the problem you're having is that neither your layer, nor your panel are the size of screen. They are both very small in the upper left (which I believe is the default). So centering your image just puts them in the center of a very small rectangle in the upper left. If you want to center your text on screen, you need to make a panel the size of the screen and then center it in that panel. 

Where the value is in the inner loop increments first and then "rolls over" to increment the value. Other than that, (X,Y) is the standard way to write it in mathematics. 

Not sure if this applies to Android development, but this is what I do when I'm doing Java development with Eclipse. I select . If you're making the changes to your scripts using Eclipse as your editor, on save the project will build automatically. However, if you're editing the files outside of Eclipse, you will have to select your project in the Project Explorer and press to refresh external changes. If changes are detected, it will build automatically. 

Is not used in the code you provided. However, the equation is used a lot, and you should know that this produces a float between 0 and 1. References rand() and RAND_MAX. 

Since you give absolutely no details as to why you want to do this or how it would be used. I'll just give you the most straightforward simple answer I can come up with. Start Java as a process: 

Read the current format Process the data read into some intermediate state Write the intermediate state into the new format 

I guess we'll get this started as a community wiki. Please edit this as you see fit (better than replying in the comments). 

It's not too critical to get a unique seed for each chunk, unless you want to try to guarantee that each chunk is unique from the last. I say try because even if each seed is unique it doesn't necessarily guarantee the random numbers you get will be different. If your world has a maximum size, you can get a unique from each position in the world with a method like this: 

And the other being a cube (sky box), the two only have a few differences. The most flexible of the two is the sky dome. With the increased number of vertices, sky domes allow some more options. For example, coloring the vertices for different effects. The easiest to implement of the two is the sky box. It's just a simple box, and very fast to draw with far fewer vertices. Skybox 

When communicating between client and server you're using RPC calls. These RPCs are possible with the script attached to an object. For simplicity, it's easiest to attach your communication scripts (the ones making invoking the RPCs) to the same object that the script is attached to. This needs to be done on both Client and Server. The easiest way to accomplish this is to create a communication relay object. This object has both the communication scripts and NetworkView script attached to it. Your communication scripts will contain the RPC signatures for both the server and the client, in the same file. So for example, your communication script might have a RPC: 

The game in game theory and game development are not talking about the same kind of games. Game theory is mainly used in economics and political science. Sounds like the book you were reading was about business strategy? I would say it's more accurate to say that game theory can be applied to computer science and the development of logical theories related to high level algorithms. But studying game theory will not necessarily help you become a better game developer. 

You should use delta time instead of total time. And keep the "running total" in your offset variable, instead of in time. 

Selling the game involves commerce. Yes, companies are allowed to do that, the details of that aren't on topic here. You may want to look into a paid version of the software, which likely doesn't have the same restrictions. Alternatively, use a different tool that doesn't have those restrictions. 

I've done this by creating a special object or vertex at the point of interest and naming it something special. Then when the model is being loaded, those points of interest are loaded as well. For example, in Blender you can create an empty object that has its position exported along with all the other model data. How you create the point of interest and how you read it in will depend on the technology you're using. This solves the problem of keeping the point updated when the model changes, since you simply move the point at the same time you're updating the model. While not fully automatic, it's a simple approach and keeps the changes you make localized to one task. 

It's not Minecraft alone that's not well suited for that kind of play, it's the whole first person genre. I'm not sure of any FPS games that take the approach of requiring formations. That level of cooperation is very difficult to communicate, organize and enforce. It's a strategy for a highly trained military unit. Overall, this can easily make the game more work than fun. It becomes even more difficult when you try to balance tactics like strict formations against strategies like guerilla warfare. There's a reason these types of tactics aren't used anymore. However, if you do want to enforce this behavior, your best bet is likely to give players in formation significant benefits to their health and attack power. While penalizing players who attempt to attack when not in formation. Further, you'll want to provide explicit in-game markers that inform players where they should be standing, which way they should be facing, etc. in order to stay in formation. That includes having one player that would likely be leading the formation and directing the rest of the players in the formation. 

Smaller numbers of either is better right? So how do we make sure that larger numbers make the score smaller? We divide by that number. The larger the number, the smaller the parts is broken into. We can change that slightly to allow for other minimums. See the example for a perfect score being calculated when the seconds elapsed is 1 and the moves taken are 1. Using this allows you to set these numbers higher and allow people to get better than perfect if they finish in fewer moves or less time than you anticipated the best to be. 

Where just takes the current position and adds a portion of the distance between it and the target position. 

EDIT Please note that the following answer does not take into account several things, and is more of an attempt to visualize differences in picking between parallel and perspective projection, and probably not a great one at that. Please read all the comments for more details. ----------------------- I believe that your original reasoning would be correct if you were using parallel projection. But since (I believe) you're using perspective projection, it doesn't work. Imagine you have two planes that are perpendicular to the camera (both facing the camera). The green plane is closest and the red plane behind that. From the camera view it looks like this: 

The ball needs to travel a certain distance to reach the coordinates where it "hits" the screen. Find this distance and calculate how long the ball will take to reach it given its randomly chosen speed. Now you have a time. Use that time to calculate the scale/second change you will apply to the ball. Roughly: 

EDIT Here's a video of it in action if anyone is interested. Detecting the initial collision For my initial collision checks, my extended overrides the function described in my question. I have a function for my terrain that can check if the world is solid at a specific point. Basically, I test my terrain against the object being passed in by the function, seeing if my terrain is solid anywhere within the bounds of that object. Now, there's also the next step in Bullet, finding the contact points. This takes place in the function I mentioned above. Here, I've made a boxShape the size of a terrain cube, then when I detect a collision in the function, I place that terrain cube sized boxShape at the collision location, and let Bullet use all it's default algorithms for detecting collision points there. So basically, if a physics objects bounds touch solid material. I'll place my temporary physics body to that location and tell Bullet to check collisions against that temporary cube, as if it were always there. This is sort of like super optimizing placing a boxShape for every cube in my terrain. Instead of millions of boxShapes, I only need to have one that teleports around when a collision is detected.