I'm looking for the simplest way to cut music in Linux (Fedora 25). It would be excellent if there's a command line option for doing something like: 

You can quit from all open files (buffers) by :qa or :qa! In vim. The exclamation mark means to force quit the edited unsaved file. Also there's ZQ and ZZ shortcuts to quit and save quit respectively, though I'm not sure if they would quit all files as unfortunately have never came to check. 

I have installed vim-airline plugin for Vim, and I should have had a "curved" "powerline" status line. 

Either click on it to be imported using graphical confirmation dialog, or use command to do the same from the command-line. Note 

I have a markdown file with the .md extension as "Personal Note.md". I make a symbolik (soft) link of it by command in Linux as "Note". I open the link with vim, it successfully traces the original file and opens it but doesn't highlight it, that is the markdown file format. To note, it does highlight if I rename or create the link from the beginning with the extension , but that's no what I want to do, I don't want to add extension to the created link to keep it shorter and neutral in the user's eye. 

i think what you need might be and switches of command, you can find full help on syntax in output ps: you can also try making user directories using before creating accounts and then add users 

executable file which starts Control Panel files, being the argument file also residing in that directory. :) 

It might be called the "ultimate" user which you can login without creating a separate user, but it's not recommended. Furthermore, it ignores UAC and the related, and has troubles with things such as the new interface and its , by default, without reconfiguration. 

The real decade-long legendary MS-DOS icons secretly reside in dynamic library file with the description of in folder of root of Windows contained in environment variable, that's by default. 

Here asterisk (*) prompts the user for password input making it invisible on the screen and unrecordable in Command Prompt's () history. Notes 

You can use switch of to specify the amount of requests to send or use Ctrl+Breakto pause to see statistics without terminating the command. 

to upload on the web. Any suggestion is appreciated, it is intended to be simple and command line if possible. 

I just downloaded and installed for Windows and It does not support HTTPS to browse most of the websites today, especially Wikipedia. I download it from Invisible Island, I guess it's the official site for the application I've also read that some users modify configuration files and build it with SSL enabled in Linux. The Windows version doesn't offer such support configuration during the setup. 

Well, there might be some steps of interest. If you're on Windows you can issue to check what files are opened in your computer by other computer users. Turn on Firewall () and Window Defender () if they're disabled. Unshare all the shares through Shared Folder window (). Add a strong password and make user all the other users, especially the Administrator, have a secure password set through User Accounts window (). And so on on that example. 

stands for tarball and archives (hence ball) (makes multiple files into one), and stands for gunzip and compresses (or zips) (reduces the size of) the file. 

You can try to use the takeown command to take ownership of the object (file or directory) first as follows: 

selects first (date), second (time), and fifth (filename) fields, if condition is true outputs the last one () 

Yeah, it is because its value contains space. The interpreter, that is Command Prompt treats space as separator between commands. Separators are one of several special characters for the interpreter (). Double quoting spaces is called escaping special characters. Another way to escape a special character is using the caret in front of it, that is prepending (ie prefixing) caret to the special character. For example, you can achieve the same by issuing: 

I suggest to see man (manual) pages for (for changing permission of the file) and (for changing file's owner) Linux commands or to utilize the websites to read manuals in their "physical" absence. 

exactly outputs the last ten lines, and the first ten to output all content try replacing it with instead 

I am using 'i3` window manager on Fedora 25. I've already uninstalled GNOME Desktop. I want to be change keyboard layout and set it to languages other than English, and desirably also to set it as Alt+Shift shortcut for easy access. 

Another compressing method (alternative to Gunzip) is Bzip2 that uses different algorithm for compression. Meaning you could meet (or even its concatenated form ) as well. 

- environment variable that contains the path to the current user's folder and - guid of user folder should work as well eg: 

As seen in the screenshot above taken from its page on GitHub, the tasks are listed in a simple format by title and the executable starting the task. Tab navgiates and enter switches, Ctrl+W closes the window. 

I am looking for the source, that's the name or the URL of the tab that opened the new tab in question. I couldn't find any good information on Google about the topic and I think finding it might be somehow done through , , or somewhere else in Settings as I'm on Firefox. 

creating a task named termination () that runs weekly () every monday () at start time of 19:00 () viewing 

It would take ownership recursively meaning applied to all subdirectories and files within, if any. There's also a SS64 page about the command. Also you might note the switch which gives ownership to the Administrators local group. 

I use Navigation popups on Wikipedia which is very handy to not to jump over multiple articles opening them in new tabs. It requires a action to display the short preview of the article. I want them to be displayed using Vimperator as I don't usually use the mouse or may not have one relying solely on keyboard. I tried to get them displayed through (a feature called Focus hint) but it just focuses on the link and does not work (doesn't perform a JavaScript function on them from my understanding). So I wonder how to implement that on Vimperator. I've never used Vimperator plugins before, if they exist in first place, and don't know if it is possible through another shortcut, command, or through reconfiguration. 

Alias means mapping, mapping to means when you type "command" is executed, and commands are usually verbs or nouns, not numbers and dots :) What you need might be variable. Variables contain the value what can be accessed by prepending into their names. 

I've recently came across a lightweight and minimalistic Switcheroo on GitHub, the latest development of it, as done by Regin Larsen, and immediately switched to it as the Alt+Tab replacement. 

and converting it to executable file () with one of the thrid-party batch to executable file type convertors [1] [2] [3]. 

When I press b Vimperator shows me up to twenty (20) tabs. I usually browse with at least 30 or 40 tabs open :) and I have enough space on the display to contain them. I want to make Vimperator display, say 30 tabs when I press b to see the opened tabs and to switch between them. I couldn't find any config on my Fedora Linux apart from self-created which is empty by default :) 

but i don't think that's exactly what you need note: remove the extra in local for variables when issuing the command directly without putting the code in scripts 

I'm haven't been using Windows for a while, but the following command run in would open the Recycle Bin virtual folder. 

I've seen Windows startup logo modifications before, and I understand that operating system is different from monitor's internal software. So I wonder if I can somehow change it and set my own custom picture as the greeting logo? 

The font I use is from package. I tried to install and use font of package but it conflicts with the former, and the terminal doesn't start up even if it is successfully installed by deleting the former. What should I do to get the status line above? 

i want to create a simple vim syntax highlighting for it and set it for specific file extension for instance, variable part could be light blue, and value part light red i googled it and came across things such as , , , and keywords, but couldn't set it up myself eventually so i want a very simple vim code snippet that would realize it by matching the left and right hand sides and coloring them separately 

Plain without the path specified like would create the file in the current directory, that is within the folder the script ran from. So, you should specify the directory as well, and not just file's name in order to save the output to a file in the directory you want it to be saved in. Moreover, is first argument, that is the value of the first parameter passed to file, parameter is what you type after its name, that is after calling the file, eg 's values would be and respectively inside the batch file. So I think, the script is wrong, and you should learn to understand what the contents do, and correct some parts of it. 

After clicking Vimperator shows up a tab window with Smart Completitions, and for example when typing it shows the URLs with the keyword on it. What I want is to select the URL I want from the list. I think it might be possible in a manner similar to following links or somehow activated by shortcut. 

it will replace the word Drive inside the app.ini file with the drive (letter and colon, eg ) you're in 

It outputs a little scrollable window over the active window when Alt or LMB is held, by default, as shown below: 

I've did a serious research on Google Web and Stack Exchange websites prior asking the question, and come across to keywords and got acquainted with their meanings such as , , , , , , , , , and what I didn't know about before. I tried to disable myself but could do that only to partial effect. What I really want is to completely disable Text Navigational Keys alongside Page Navigational Keys in Bash, and possibly in all consoles. I do it because I want to enforce the Vim key bindings everywhere possible, and had already set to benefit from Vim modes presence in Bash. I think the most correct way would be achieving so through , tried, failed. 

from prompt (Win+R) and setting the: Cursor blink rate to None either by mouse or by keyboard shortcuts of: Alt+B and Left button. 

The easiest workaround (in terms of user-friendliness) for Google Chrome would be adding Allow Copy extension. 

I usually bookmark pages pressing Ctrl-D but it pops up a prompt asking for confirmation or additional editing including assigning tags. I used to to bookmark with A key of vimperator, but Vimperator messes up with a lot of other things so I disable it for now. Is there a plugin or configuration trick (in or configuration files) to disable such an annoying prompt to make it quite and uninteractive (esp. when bookmarking is done a lot)? 

I've come across on Web, and installed from the native repository of Fedora the qutebrowser which I came to love much. It provides the functionality by ;+h shortcut. It didn't only solve my problem but also made me shift from firefox to qutebrowser for its focus on keyboard and shortcuts, and minimalism. 

Well, star, especially the yellow star, is a "universal" symbol for favorites, or bookmarks in web browsing context You can meet the phenomenon in various web browsers and in your User (or Home, especially named such in Linux operating systems, located at path specified in variable in Windows) folder which looks just like that in folders being roughly an Windows Explorer, that is a file manager feature: 

it can be removed by moving down english (united states) in language window (), and then clicking remove button: 

Making the user administrator To make a user administrator you should add the user into the Administrators group what is done as follows in command-line "style": 

? Command Prompt in Windows have the command which might do what you want to accomplish. It outputs "Press any key to continue..." but its output can be avoided by which redirects its own output to nowhere instead of onto the screen by default 

Which would create the file in the current directory you're in NB there's also a second redirection operator with double greater-than characters which appends to the existing file instead of rewriting the existing file, that is deleting its contents and creating a new one, unluke the former, which just adds into the existing without clearing the previous contents. 

I think you can achieve that by moving (with command) the file into that virtual folder. I cannot check it right now but I guess you can copy the path of the virtual folder and then use it inside the command as the second argument (the destination). It is (the path) is probably in the hidden folder 

Reading this article made me learn that it possible with SVG images. For instance, you can create an image of a clickable rectangle that can lead to your website: 

ps: it may require elevated privilege so, so run ( that is, actually) as administrator pps: to change the name of the user (instead of the username itself), that is what appears on lock screen: 

Unlike Linux, in Windows aliases can take arguments, and can be given parameters to assign those arguments into in their definition. The internal built-in command is doskey, meaning it's not an external executable file located in but is a feature of which itself is located in or both pointing at folder by default. Doskey defines aliases among many other things. In Windows terminology, aliases is called macros. To set an alias you use 

How can I set i3bar of i3 window manager on top of the screen rather than being placed on its default position, that is bottom. I tried to examine the ~/.config/i3/config file but couldn't work it out by myself. 

I want to edit my file with gVim displaying the formatting (rich-text) and also editing that is converting the text as I type in the markdown format. Is it possible to do that with or ? I'm on Fedora 25 Beta. Previously I used Evernote on Windows to type in and view rich-text. I don't want to rely on Firefox addons to view markdown. I installed and used for a while to view and type markdown but it doesn't support the formatting fully, and as I use a lot I want it to render markdown either through plugins or something in console or graphical editions. 

it can be done using or more easily using to copy the entire directory tree, including empty ones, and then deleting the original directory: solution 1: internal command 

You may use third-party software like Volumouse. The sound can be adjusted by scrolling the mousewheel while holding the ALT key down. 

I guess the title speaks for the question itself. When I turn on my monitor by clicking on the button attached in the bottom near its screen it shows me a logo, a stylized LG logo, in my case. 

I think the title pretty much defines the question. In qutebrowser you can change the status bar's position by setting to instead of the other default value either through the command mode or in configuration file. Likely, I want to place the status bar to the top of the browser in Vimperator because it is easier for me to check the URL of the page which is on the status bar lifting my eyes rather than lowering them. I tried to do it myself, but couldn't find any option regarding the position of the status bar. 

Note the caret after "Program" To contrast and clarify, the greater-than character is also a special character for Command Prompt. It is a special character because it has a special function of redirecting output, that is it works as a command of its own despite being just a single character. So it should also be escaped. For example you can set your prompt to appear as an indicative arrow by properly escaping it: 

I want to disable the usual keys to navigate on a text editor that is the Up, Down, Left, and Right buttons in Vim text editor. It would enforce the vim-style HJKL keys to be used for the same purpose. 

You might also try to run for system-wide Startup folder. Apart from that check Startup tab of (System Configuration window). If nothing help utilize the AutoRuns an excellent tool by Sysinternals (a Microsoft subsidiary) that is just meant for that, what locates and conveniently sorts out different types of startup applications by tabs: