When booting up the machine, press v on the keyboard. This will bring it into verbose booting mode. Maybe you'll find out more information that way. You could also try booting with x pressed (this is booting in safe mode, with limited functionality) 

I made a short tutorial in case others are interested in changing this setting. To adjust Underscan/Overscan in Catalyst Control Center (version 9): 

I use Global Hotkeys in Winamp (they're in Options -> General Preferences). I've set my play hotkey to Ctrl + Alt + X, for instance; this key combination works from any app, wherever I am, even when Winamp is minimized. You can also set your multimedia keys as Global Hotkeys. This should allow you to control Winamp, even when it's minimized. 

If you have MSTSC.EXE (Remote Desktop Connection) anywhere, then it's Windows XP Professional. If you have ehshell.exe (the Media Center Shell) anywhere, it's Windows XP MCE. Otherwise, it's XP Home. 

Try converting the file to a Windows format; you could try DfontSplitter to do this. However, I'm not sure if this is legal. 

Install XP first. After that install 7. When 7 is installed, its bootloader will also recognize XP; that way you'll be able to boot in both operating systems without needing to do anything else. 

You can try the suggestions from this site: $URL$ Also, there's an article regarding this on the Adobe support site; here's the link: $URL$ Also, the apps that usually have a pkg file in the dmg usually also have another pkg that is used for uninstalling. I'm not sure if this is true here, but I wanted to let you know to keep the original dmg file. 

Initial post: the inability to change underscan/overscan for the TV was actually an issue in Catalyst Control Center, version 9.9. The release notes for the latest version (9.10 from 22.10.2009) state: 

I've had the same thing happen for me, as well. It's not a normal behavior, so there are no settings to turn on or off. Try reinstalling Firefox; that fixed it for me. It doesn't take long, so it shouldn't be a real problem. 

It does quite a lot more than what's said in the description above, but I'm not sure if it can monitor if your connection is down. I've only used it to log how much data I transferred. 

Try using MediaMonkey. When you download the album artwork, save the artwork to the file. That way, iTunes will pick it up. 

I'd like to connect my PC to an HDTV using an HDMI-HDMI cable. The distance between them is about 8 m; is the length going to be an issue? I'm worried the signal might deteriorate over such a distance. Also, does price have any major impact on the signal quality? I'd like to buy an 8-10 m cable for somewhere around 20$. Would such a cheap cable be good for what I want? 

This might help you out. It's a Quicklook plugin called BetterZip that allows you to view the contents of an archive by simply tapping space. It can preview the following archive formats: ZIP, TAR, GZip, BZip2, ARJ, LZH, ISO, CHM, CAB, CPIO, RAR, 7-Zip, DEB, RPM, StuffIt’s SIT, DiskDoubler, BinHex, and MacBinary. The partial extract part unfortunately does not work, though. This is only good for previewing. 

Firefox is still cached in RAM, that's what makes it so fast the second time around. If you'd wait a while before starting it the second time it wouldn't be that fast. The same thing happens in Windows and Mac OS X, not just Linux. 

Net send is no longer used; it wasn't used in Windows Vista either. Try using the msg command, instead. You can find more information here. 

I connect my PC to my TV using a DVI to HDMI cable. The problem is that if the resolution is higher than 720p, the image on the TV screen starts to deteriorate ( you can clearly see small green dots all over low light places). The same thing is happening both in Windows and Mac OS X, so that rules out drivers and hardware on the PC side. I also know the Tv is capable of displaying crisp 1080p images, so that only leaves the cable. Are there any bandwidth limitations for such a connection? Or is the cable just faulty? Do you have any experiences with this type of setup? 

In my opinion, the easiest way would be to save the CDs as ISOs; this way you'd have a perfect copy of the CDs and you'd be able to save them anywhere you'd like. Given the fact that the games you want to save aren't that new, the size of the ISOs would be relatively small, so storage would not be an issue. Here's an article explaining how you can save a CD as an ISO image (there are probably other ways to do it). 

It's a misconception. I've been running a 64 bit version of Vista (and more recently Windows 7) for about 2 years. Vista 64 runs ok with just 1 GB RAM; there's no real difference between a 32 bit OS and a 64 bit OS when it comes to memory consumption. On the other hand, if you have a 64 bit OS, some apps might actually be faster, if they are also 64 bit (for example, 7zip and WinRAR have 64 bit apps that are faster than the 32 bit ones). 

The drivers and all the other utilities were on separate DVDs from the Vista install disk for my dell. It should be a 'real' Vista DVD. 

I've highlighted the part you'll be interested in. Basically, without DisplayPort, there's no Eyefinity and, therefore, no 3 monitor support. 

The number of Genius Mixes is determined automatically based on the music you have. For instance, I've got 9 (4 of them are based on rock); my wife only has 4, completely different from what I have, even though she has a subset of the songs I have. I doubt it's possible to influence the number or type of Genius Mixes. It only seems to offer a very spartan experience, with no way of tweaking the results. 

When you install K-Lite Codec Pack, towards the end of the installer, it asks you if you want to have thumbnails generated for all the file types it supports. You get thumbnails for quite a lot of formats, including, I believe, for mov files. 

Edit: I added CHAR(10) to the formula to create a newline between the 2 fields. However, you have to enable Wrap text for the cell. 

It works in the sense that I can start it just fine from the command line; nothing chrashes, no complaints. I'm using Windows 7 64 bit. How are you running it, specifically? 

I have honestly never seen this used anywhere. This is probably as used as Scroll Lock, relegated to a few applications. Also, there is no such event when programming using the .net platform. 

Edit: since quite a lot has changed in the drivers (version 2011.0419 as of this writing) since I initially wrote this post, I decided to update it. The procedure is now drastically simplified: 

It should work. That's what we have at work; the Documents & Settings folder is on a network drive. I can go to any computer and just carry on working. Why not try to move the folder and see what happens; you can read a bit about how to do it here. Edit: Joshua is right, the link only referred to the My Documents folder. After digging around a bit, I found a way to really move the whole Documents & Settings folder; it seems a bit tricky, involving a lot of registry editing, but maybe it will help you. 

It depends. Did you activate Windows on any of the PCs? You might be able to transfer the license from the first to the second PC as long as it's not used on both (I've done this without any problems after upgrading my PC). If Windows complains when trying to activate the second PC, call Microsoft and you'll fix the problem in no time.