I'd like to know which new packages (brand new, not the updated ones) have appeared in my installed repos. Just in case there can be something useful :) I guess it should be a simple bash script to list-sort-diff. But maybe, there're some better solutions? 

There's currently no way to disable it at all, but you can stop this annoying window from popping out. Also, you probably have noticed that the process is "wuactl.exe", and you can't just kill it: it comes again. Install Process explorer from SysInternals: it's capable of 'suspending' a process for debug purposes. Find 'wuactl.exe' there, right-click, and choose 'suspend'. The process will not display anything after this trick :) I;m not sure whether each user has this process running, but being an Administrator you can suspend all of them. Make sure the popup window is not visible, or the user won't be able even to dismiss it temporarily! A few words about automating this: 'suspend' action is WinAPI-dirven, so you can create a small daemon (or maybe even a bat script?) that determines whether 'wuactl.exe' is running, and suspends it if found. Cheers! 

Unmount removes the drive from the root filesystem: e.g. if it was it's no longer there, but you can mount it back. 'Safely remove' AFAIK does the same PLUS if powers the device off so external HDDs stop spinning 

I've Googled this but just keep getting either Windows related results or results relating to authenticating to a known network. Basically, I have set my kids computers with Linux Mint and configured the wireless network with OpenDNS DNS filtering to enable only family safe sites (yes, I know it's not 100% reliable blah blah blah). They don't have permission to add new, or edit existing, network connections. They don't know my sudo password and they are not in the sudo group and they can't access the router admin page. USB ports are disabled. I want to avoid them being able to connect to a wireless hotspot that might be activated on the phone(s) of one of their friends mobile phones when they visit. As it stands, all that it takes to bypass my network setup, USB deactivation (which prevents USB tethering of course) and OpenDNS is for them to scan for a new wireless hotspot running off their friends device and then they can connect to it. So, I want to know how I can lock the system to only connect to the existing wireless connection running off my router, which I have controlled and configured and route through OpenDNS. I also need to prevent them being able to add a VPN connection, which I think a regular user can do without admin rights? Correct me if I'm wrong. Any ideas? (yes, I know I can't stop them accessing stuff when they are out and about etc etc and I know I'm being too protective - this isn't a post about family ethics or responsible parenting - it's about restricting and controlling as best I can what they access for the hours that they are home) 

Possibly, you were infected with a DDoS bot which uses your bandwidth for attacking servers. Try scanning with Avast! — it's free but powerful. If you have a wireless access point — make sure it's protected with a good password, and WPA, not WEP: WEP is weak and easy to hack through. 

Unplug everything and check if it beeps (no CPU should make it puzzled :) ). If not, it's likely a MB issue. Then put the CPU back in, check beeping. If not, it still can be a MB issue. To prove that, try another CPU. Now put the video card back in. Check. Then RAM. Check. try moving the RAM around, try inserting one module in different slots. 

First, let's deal with Alsa devices' indexes. Plug in your USB Speaker and invoke so Alsa finds it. List cards indexes and their drivers: 

It's really easy: you should have searched VBox's manuals for "shared". The solution is to open Windows "console" via "cmd.exe" and type there: In a Linux guest, use the following command: 

P.S. I'm not in common with how Alsa really works and may have made terrible mistakes :) Please correct me if there's a better way. But still, this works :) 

You may have added your virtual hosts to or something like this, and the file was overwritten on update (you were prompted!). Check if you still have your virtual hosts in (one host per file) and that have valid resolvable symlinks in : this is the right way to add them in Ubuntu (I believe, in all Unix systems that's common: a great idea to have them separate rather than piling in a single file!). 

Any help? I'm not sure what each item on the list of enabled/disabled items is, but "Operational Mode" is disabled, so I assume that one refers to me disabling Windows Firewall. I know that since Windows Firewall is off, this output might not be useful, but I figured I'd include it just in case, haha. I ran nmap on our global IP and here is the port information it gave: 

I am trying to open port 80 and 3690 for HTTP and svnserve respectively (inbound for both). I have Windows Firewall off, and have tried temporarily disabling Mcafee VirusScan Enterprise, to no avail. According to $URL$ both ports 80 and 3690 are still blocked. I can't think of what would be blocking them if Windows Firewall and my antivirus are disabled. Here is the output of 

My brother has a server in his garage and has been using it to serve is own little website for a while now (about a year and a half or two). I've been the one managing it, but he recently changed ISPs and the website is no longer accessible. I've set up port forwarding in the router, but no luck. The router is from the ISP, and the internet goes directly into the router and the server is connected directly to the router. This is the same setup as before except for the new router, and the server is now connected wirelessly (this is due to the ISP setting up the router in the wrong room in the house. my brother wasn't home when they did it :/ ) Apache is running fine on the server (I can access the site locally with the LAN ip address). If I try to access the website using the public IP address from within the LAN, I get sent to the router configuration page, as if I typed in the router IP address (although, this may have to do with the fact that I'm trying to access it from within the LAN). If I try to access the site from another connection (I'm using my phones internet at the moment, as I don't have another outside connection to test from), I get a 502 Bad Gateway response. I am not getting any errors or access logs from Apache on the server, and a port checking website tells me the port is closed ($URL$ We've been trying to get this working for a while now with no luck. I can't find what has changed/went wrong anywhere. If anyone has any ideas on how to rectify this, I would greatly appreciate it. Aside from the website being down, this is just plain frustrating. The server is running Windows Server Enterprise. 

Have a look at YaKuake: a very nice terminal that drops down from the screen top, highly customizable and newb-friendly. Enjoy :) 

Maybe, your Xorg has lost video driver? Try launching the "hardware drivers" application and re-set it. Without a driver no desktop effects are working. 

There must be something that launches the virus, and there's no common way except for . Bootsector is read only on system boot, not when OS is operational. That means if is disabled – you can relax unless no virus/useful-software enables it back again, or you run it manually :) 

This will create two 'dmix' playback devices: 'card0' & 'card1'. They will allow you to switch between them without problems. Now, put this in ~/.asoundrc: 

Compose key is a great way way to write all these ©–®—… stuff. It's really MUCH more handy than the windows "alt+0169" method. Is there a way to define additional sequences? E.g. I'd like to have "Compose+-->" result in "→" 

We want to have 'Speaker' with index=0. Add these lines to to make USB Speaker the default device, if present: 

to switch to the second card. Replace all '1's with '0's to switch back. A small script will be handy :) NOTE: In this manual we created several new Alsa devices: 'this', 'card0-hw', 'card0', 'card1-hw', 'card1'. You can refer to them: 

$URL$ Has all of the above features (see 'Recursive Hash' tab), plus cross-platform and open-source and currently maintained, v2.1 released a few weeks ago. Uses MD5, SHA1, SHA256 or SHA512. 

I know of a program that can "carve" (look for) TCP IP Packets from raw binary data. The results it presents are the source and destination MAC addresses, the source and destination IP addresses and a few other bits and pieces (port numbers etc). I'm curious to know what bits of data act as a signature\flag to identify such data amidst a mass of other binary data? The example below is one of my own IP packets from a test. First 6 bytes = Destination MAC address. Next 6 bytes, Source MAC address. 0800 is some kind of marker that I now forget. 45 AB F7 25 is one IP address, C0 A8 6F A0 one of my internal IP addresses etc. But there's nothing before it or after it to say "Hey - this is TCP IP data". And there are hundreds of other similar examples. So how has the software found it and the others when the starting data is simply a MAC address - not something that you can easily code a program to look for (which is what I want to do myself)? Any thoughts?