I used to get poor performance from my PI 3 since I had a few heavy load programs running on it. After needing more than 128GB of MicroSD storage I got a USB to SATA cable and hooked up a 500GB SSD and soon realised that I was getting increased performance. After a little looking research, I realised that my PI was getting extra power from the USB to SATA cable I had hooked up as the power lead of this adapter was plugged into a different USB. If I supply my PI with extra power through the USB like this will I damage it in the long run? 

I have tried this myself and it seems that you currently cant download steam onto a raspberry pi in the first place. I have tried manually installing the packages that make up the SteamOS but it requires too much processing power. The most i have been able to do is get the R-pi2 running as a cheep steam box but as for downloading games it seems to be a impossibility for now, until they bring out ARM support. 

When both LED's stay on and don't turn off this usually indicates that there is no partition on the Micro SD that can be read from. I have had this problem several times when trying to get Micro SD's working with my pi's. Firstly make sure you only have one partition on your SD card and if not merge them all, next format into FAT32, this is important since R-pi can only read FAT32, next reinstall your OS or OS manager like noobs or berry boot (i recommend this one) and see if your problems have been fixed try a different OS/Os manager. If that fails try running a memory test on the Micro SD card since it could be a fake or just simply be faulty. Even if on your PC it says it has 16gb it could in fact have 8 or even 4 gb (i was sold a 64 gb memory card and it only had 4gb of memory and as the memory filled it overwrote data corrupting itself. Memory Tester Hope this helped. 

I have seen this happen with my Raspberry PI 3. My pi was drawing too much power when under heavy load, crashing and then restarting.Since the PI 3 uses around 1.34 amps under max stress, my 2.0 USB port was not powerful enough to run some applications i requested from it and this could be what you are experiencing. A few things you could do to test this could be to leave your pi idling. If it still crashes then it is most likely an OS problem and a fresh install/upgrade should resolve any issues. But if this still does not fix the problem then you are not supplying it with enough power. Power Usage Reference: $URL$ 

Have you tried using transmission instead? I was getting the same issues as you before I switched over to transmission, possibly because it's much less memory intensive. For me a simple: worked and there are plenty of tutorials online about how to setup and optimize transmission for the raspberry pi. I have it setup on my pi 2 and it often sees speeds of 1MBs over wireless, furthermore the upload speed doesn't oscillate as randomly. In regard to rpc-whitelist problem (happened to me also!), it is necessary to then change whitelist settings in and finally issue a , if you simply call a restart or reload the settings will be erased. My pi torrent box has been running for four months now without any problems (: 

You could copy the sd card with all the data on a computer, and restore and necessary files after reinstalling. 

That is assuming the transmission-daemon is running from its own user, as suggested here: $URL$ You can check that the transmission user exists by doing: 

Have you tried using $URL$ 's dynamic vpn service? Just install noip2 on your pi, follow the instructions on the website, forward port 22 on your router, and voila you have a domain that allows points to your dynamic ip at home. 

My upload and download speeds on my seedbox hosted on my pi constantly fluctuated between 2.5MBps and 50/0KBps. I have done file download speed tests and get upwards of 3.3Mbps, yet even on the best seeded torrents my dl/up speed soars for a couple of seconds, then abruptly grinds to a halt for another few. So far I have found this thread, which describes my problem accurately, but it doesn't come to a decisive answer. I have already tried changing all the settings in Deluge, and even used transmission on my pi to no avail. I've checked the CPU and memory usage so it can't be that, maybe the power supply?? I am downloading to an external USB flash drive so that could be the issue, if so how could I check the read and write speeds? I have also torrented on my computer on my home network so I doubt it could be my ISP throttling p2p connections. Does anybody know why this could be, or have resolved a similar issue when torrenting with a raspberry pi? EDIT 1: Just added some more really well seeded torrents and observed the download speed. Even with 173 seeders and 0 peers still maxed out around 1MBps then fell to around 50KBps. Could it be that my router is sending too many packets for my pi to handle? EDIT 2: After changing to transmission and tweaking the settings a little I found this problem to go away. I think the deluge in the raspi-repo is outdated, and I would recommend anyone who is having the similar problems to do the same. 

This will (hopefully) start your script which will start ES then kill the desktop! If that script doesn't work, you could try experimenting and adjusting it so it kills the desktop first then starts emulationstation, or starts ES then kills the desktop then starts ES again... or whatever works. 

EDIT: You could use a ready-made current sensor like this ready made module(or something similar) to measure the current between the output of the relay and your load. That current sensor uses a I2C interface, so it should be easy to connect to with the pi. 

You do not need to use different ground and voltage pins for each sensor. In fact, it makes no difference at all, because all of the ground pins come from the same source(so they are all connected) and all the 3.3V pins come from the same source. So even if you use different ground pins, they will all still be connected anyway. In fact, you could build all the sensors on the same breadboard, with each using the same power wires(the red and black wires) - the only pins that need to be different for each sensor(ldr) are the signal wires(the yellow wires). 

simulate this circuit – Schematic created using CircuitLab you probably just want to go with the npn circuit, though. 

see more info here but if you want to use A pnp transistor: I think a voltage divider with a pnp transistor might work: 

to the bottom. This will make it so that your server starts up automatically every time your pi boots! hope this helps and feel free to ask for clarification! 

The simplest route would be to use . port forwarding is forwarding an internal lan(local area network, the network created by your router) ip address's port(for example, the port your raspberry pi's website is on) to your external ip address(the address you are given on the entire internet, not just locally.). this would make it so that you could access your website by typing your ip address into the address bar. you can do this by accessing your routers admin panel and setting up port forwarding, so it will be different for different routers. here is a nice guide. You will want to forward your pi's ip address, with the port your website is on. then you can access your website by typing your ip address(you can find it by searching for ip on google) into the address bar of a web browser. be warned though: there are security risks to this approach, so make sure you research them first. 

according to your error message: , you must have put a dollar sign($) in front of your command. for example, it looks like you typed