This should not be a problem. I did this with several other vendors (Foundry, HP, Extreme, ...) and Cisco should not be a problem, too. Don't rely 100% on the syntax, tho. 

You could configure a mirror (or "span") port on the switch. Almost every managed switch has such a feature. If it's your own home network and there are only unmanaged switches, get a hub and connect the "victim",the router and your sniffing pc to it. The "bad" way to get the traffic in a switched environment is called "ARP spoofing". Google for if you need a tool to help you out. Well... If it's not your own network and/or the person using the "victim" computer doesn't know and agree with what you're doing, just don't do it. 

You could use to redirect port 80 to 8080. This is useful if your application is started by an unprivileged user instead of root. 

You could use the good old well known Squid proxy for this. Here is just one howto with config examples. Google will give you a lot more in no-time. HTH, PEra 

...and if the clocks are correctly set, just run . Don't be afraid. It's a testing distro - maybe they messed something up. ;) 

I agree with Matt Simmons' answer. Please let me add that HyperThreading (the Pentium4-thingy) itself has never done any good to my systems. No performance gain, but sometimes even trouble. You're better off disabling it completely. 

You may want to ditch DHCP on the wireless router and use the Windows DHCP Server. It's a bit more robust than your average wireless router (though, I don't know what you have so that may or may not be true). Either way, there are two things you may be missing that is preventing users on the domain from accessing the internet: a default gateway, and dns servers. In your DHCP server, make sure you are passing out a default gateway with the address of your wireless router, and also the address of whatever is serving DNS for you. If it's your domain controller, then hand out that address. If it's your wireless router, then hand that address instead. You can check what these values are on your desktops by doing an ipconfig /all command from the command line. If you are missing one or either, or they are pointed to the wrong place, the "internet" won't work as expected. Look for Default Gateway and DNS Servers ip addresses. It should look something like this (this is a Windows 7 snapshot on my LAN): 

Our Exchange server is running on the . We're dealing with the mail store size issue, where if the mail store goes over the limit, it gets dismounted. While we are working with the powers-that-be on a policy that will prevent this happening in the future, I would like to see if it is possible to re-mount the mail store via the Windows CLI. I'm already monitoring the Event Logs and alerting on mail store warnings and dismounts - I'm just tired of getting up at 5am to manually re-mount the store while the political wars ensue. My alerting tools have the ability to execute a batch script when an alert is generated. I would greatly prefer a native CLI option. I'm not too keen on running some random vbscript found on the Internet and I don't really care to spend my time debugging someone else's code. PowerShell might be an option, if it can be triggered from the CLI. 

Have a look at the switches' CAM table and make sure the client's and the server's MACs are learned on the correct VLANs. One other quick thought: you are using a mixed setup with tagged/untagged port on the server side. Is the switch able to handle this? Maybe it's easier to set up eth0 (192.168.1.101) as a tagged port (eth0.x) aswell to prevent confusion on the switch side. What kind of switch are you using? 

From 10.5 on, OS X comes with a new, application-oriented firewall instead of . But ipfw is still installed. If you have trouble with its syntax, check out graphical frontends like or . HTH, PEra 

Hmm not sure how one can analyze such a behavior when it's not occuring anymore. Maybe there was some kind of ARP messup. Could you post the sanitized relevant parts of your config? 

Here is an article about the different backup methods, including replication. Please don't put Username (probably root) and password in a script, use the file of the user running the backup script (probably also root). Make it read-protected to the outside world () For reasonably busy sites, use mk-parallel-dump or make a snapshot at filesystem level (using LVM), backup the data files and remove the snapshot. 

should work on any normal filesystem. What do you see with ? Is the symlink created? If it is, check if apache is allowed to open the directory and read the config files. To do so, enter and look for "x" and "r" bits in the permissions (beginning of line). Update after comment: The permissions are okay AFAIK. You should focus on apache then. Are there any errors in the logs? What does debug say? 

72.165.117.130 is one of our private (MPLS) WAN addresses that routes to 63.145.168.58. I'm trying to forward traffic sent to that address to an internal device at 10.0.1.40. Is that all there is to creating a one-to-one NAT, or am I missing something? 

That's the network service profile folder, which is a user folder for the built-in network service account. The purpose of that account is to authenticate the computer to the domain for the purpose of accessing certain resources on the network. See the below article for a bit more information on local/network service accounts. $URL$ If I remember correctly, Windows XP will just restore the folder upon reboot. I would recommend, if you have a desktop that you can afford to "break", simply rebooting a machine and checking it out. 

As an alternative, racksolutions.com has a few universal kits that fit just about anything I throw at them. No slides, but better than buying a shelf. 

This produces c:\temp\email-addresses.txt, which, although it contains a little extra garbage characters, it can easily be parsed out with a search & replace in Notepad++. 

We have WSUS pushing updates out to our user's workstations, and things are going relatively well with one annoying caveat: there seems to be an issue with a pop-up being displayed in front of some users informing them that their machine will be rebooted in 15 minutes, and they have nothing to say about it: 

From my experience, cheap hardware does cost a lot, too. I'm sure you do not need the high end model of a professional server to serve a few websites. But you don't want to miss 

You could set up a free monitoring solution like Incinga or Nagios. There are tons of plugins for every check you can think of. Or you could just write your own script which reports a status ("good", "bad", whatever...). A good commercial thingy would be WhatsUp Gold. It includes performance measurement tools, too. If you want some real gold, take a look at Jazzey. It's a real high class, really expencive, end-to-end monitoring tool. It simulates real users working with your (web-) apps. Spent lots of ours with at work. 

However, I see some disadvantages for using Windows here. Am I right that you want do use a 2k8 license just to filter and forward some traffic? Sounds expencive. And somewhat insecure. There are pre-packaged Linux/BSD distros with nice web-GUIs if you have no Unix experience. Have a look at pfSense, it's a really nice firewall. And here is an article, which describes Snort integration. You can test it using VMWare, for example. HTH, PEra 

If it's just another service, set up a new server inside a DMZ (ask your networking guy), configure it with a public IP or let your firewall do some NAT. Name that new server whatever your service will be like, e.g. access.company.com and create a A-Record for it. 

If you own both systems, you should already know this... testing should be as easy as starting an SSH session to the Linux machine. 

A1: Media Temple offers a way to create multiple users with access to SSH/SFTP in their "shared" hosting plan - they call it the Grid. $URL$ 

A2: This depends on what you want. If there are only two or three of you working together - then there really isn't much reason why sharing an account would be a problem. On a side note, depending on who you are working with and your trust level with these folks, you really want the ssh/sftp account that you are all sharing to NOT be a root/administrative user. 

I commented on your question with questions of my own. I might be able to help if you can elaborate a bit. Either way, you'll have to forward VPN ports on your wireless router to your DC so your DC can handle the VPN traffic. 

You can delegate control of IIS sites and applications to users, much like you can delegate rights to objects in Active Directory. See the link for instructions. A few more links to help out: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

I'm trying to gather a list of all e-mail addresses being used by our Exchange 2003 system, which includes not only the normal user addresses, but distribution groups and aliases as well. I also need the output formatted like: user@domain.com - although, we only have one domain, so even if I can get the user part, that would work. I don't care about account-association here, I really just need a list of addresses. How can I go about doing an export of all smtp e-mail addresses from Exchange 2003, including distribution group and alias addresses in the user@domain.com format? I would prefer something that can be accomplished via the command line so that it can be generated by a script, but it would be just as useful if there is a way to do this manually (read: point and click) as well. Any ideas? I don't see anything within System Manager that can do this, and my searching isn't turning up anything that can fulfill all the above requirements. Solved This is how I'm using the accepted answer: 

Client (192.168.1.3) sends TCP-SYN to your external IP, Port 80 (123.123.123.1:80) Router sees port forwarding rule and forwards the packet to the server (192.168.1.2:80) without changing the source IP (192.168.1.3) Client waits for a SYN-ACK from the external IP Server send his answer back to the client directly, because it's on the same subnet. It does not send the packet to the router, which would reverse the NAT. Client recieves a SYN-ACK from 192.168.1.2 instead of 123.123.123.1. And discards it. Client still waits for a SYN-ACK from 123.123.123.1 and times out. 

You could boot with a live cd like GRML and use the boot option to check the RAM for errors. If you boot the normal grml OS (debian based linux), there are lots of tools for diag (like cpu burn-in). 

It would not be that wise to have the users and passwords inside the .htaccess file (or the apache-config itself) for min. two main reasons. See, the .htaccess lies inside a directory of your website. The password file should never lie there, because everyone could then download it and has a complete list of valid usernames. And can brute force their passwords offline. Another reason could be that you could have a large number of users/groups for a BASIC auth protected website. You do not want to mix server config and authentication database.