I would like to open the Volume Control popup directly without using the mouse or keyboard. Currently, I am using AutoHotkey to press Win+B to focus on the system tray, Left to highlight the Volume Control icon , and then Enter to bring up the popup. 

This happens when the EOL control characters are not correct. Windows represents newlines with the + . In Notepad++, you can check for these characters by selecting: View > Show Symbols > 

This is slightly different from your example, but this is how to combine .exe's using AutoHotkey: compile the following script with and in the same folder. After compiling, you only need to keep the single wrapper .exe. 

The fonts should now be usable in other applications while the PortableApps.com platform is running. 

To Toggle a block comment (e.g. in Ruby, ), press Ctrl+Q. Other comment related commands can be found under . 

Technically, NTFS Alternate Data Streams (ADS) can be utilized to provide comments or metadata for any file. Windows XP took advantage of this with the dialog for files. Microsoft removed this feature in Windows Vista, however, the ability to create ADS is still possible with the command line or other utilities. I think the easiest solution would be to find a Windows Explorer replacement which supports comments or metadata for any file. Xplorer^2 is one such file manager. (I tried to find a free or opensource file manager with metadata support, but this feature does not seem to be too popular...) Anyway, for what it's worth, Xplorer^2 uses ADS for file comments. 

Alternatively, hardware acceleration may be causing the warning's GUI to fail. Try disabling under Options > Advanced > General > Browsing. 

The history menu that you are referring to is known as the Recent Pages drop-down menu. You do not right-click the back button (as you would in a web browser), instead you click the arrow to the right of the forward button. 

As other have mentioned, there is no built-in keyboard shortcut. However, we can work some magic with AutoHotkey. I am going to use the Backspace key to close the highlighted Taskbar window: 

So, we can use the following file formats: SVG, PNG, or JPEG. With drawings, you'd want to work with vector rather than raster graphics, so you're left with SVG. 

Windows 7 does not use a Quick Launch toolbar. The new way is known as . However, you can emulate the traditional Quick Launch feature by doing the following: 

I dont think the partition is recoverable unless someone knows something i dont but a great data recovery tool that might be able to help you is GetDataBack Simply download it on another machine and connect your drive to that machine and select that drive to recover from, then you can simply copy it to the other machine. Im afraid that by creating that partition over it you may have overwritten it enough that the files wont be recoverable 

I would return it while you still can. In my experience when a disk starts getting bad sectors it doesnt last much longer. As @dave said this may differ as each person may have a different opinion but I dont think its worth risking it. I would return 

I have an hp pavilion dv6000 that was having windows issues recently including randomly freezing. I eventually concluded that the hard drive was bad (And I was correct as the bad drive started making funny noises and quit working soon after). So I replaced it with a known good drive and put windows on it and it worked for a few hours. After a few restarts startup didn't even make it to the login screen. It just stays at a lighted black screen until I restarted. After another restart it made it to windows but then froze after a few minutes. A few more restarts yielded one of these two results. Like I mentioned earlier I have a know good drive in it and I also replaced the memory that was in it with a know good stick along with running memtest with no errors. So What does that leave? a corrupted windows installation? Motherboard? CPU? Any ideas? 

It will run those things fine. It wont be the fanciest or fastest thing in the world but for someone on a budget it will fulfill your needs. I prefer windows 7 to Vista but for the average user (from your question I would put you in that category) Vista will work 

Assuming windows 7 came installed on the machine, Hp has a recovery partition that restores the computer to its factory settings. As long as you didnt wipe that partition when you installed windows 8, All you have to do is start up the computer and hit f11 repeatedly until the hp recovery program starts. Then simply follow on-screen instructions 

If the / is already focused when the page loads, may not be added to the page title. You have to move focus away from the element and then back to get the title to change. If the / element is dynamically generated after the page loads (this is also when the script loads), then those elements will not have any effect. 

AutoHotkey can help you achieve this. Let's write a script that outputs the process and titles of all open windows to stdout: 

As @EKW mentioned, there my be an empty toolbar obstructing the blank space where you can usually click and drag the taskbar from. A quick way around this is to click and drag from the clock. 

Applying the following CSS using Stylish or userChrome.css will style the blank New Tab page appropriately! 

When you install a new operating system (OS), you need to install any hardware drivers that the OS did not already include. Running Windows Update may download and install some missing drivers provided by Microsoft partners, but in most cases you will need to find them yourself. The first stop on your drivers quest should be your computer manufacturer's support website. This section will typically be titled with the word "Downloads" and/or "Drivers". You can then enter your computer's model and operating system to find a list of drivers for the hardware you may have. You may also find any additional software (bells and whistles) that would be included on a pre-built computer. In your case, you can go to and navigate through: 

Now, you will only have tabs left (and any other older pinned tabs)! Right-click each newly pinned tab and select "Unpin Tab" to restore them. 

If you use AutoHotkey, I have written a script that will refresh the specified open browsers and return you back to your original window. This uses the hotkey CTRL+ALT+R, as per your example. 

One way to pin a URL to the the Taskbar is to create a shortcut using the command. The target would look like this: 

Netflix uses Microsoft Silverlight for its video player. The other two sites mentioned use Adobe Flash Player. Flash Player now has its own process () with individual volume control, so it is possible that it is muted. To fix this, open the Windows Volume Mixer () and adjust Flash Player's level accordingly: 

It wont "touch" your windows 7 install but you wont be able use the computer while you're installing an OS. You cant boot to the drive with windows 7 on and then somehow boot seperately to your windows 8 installation disk 

No the playlist is simply a text file that contains links to your media files and deleting that text file will not delete your music! 

Try Firebug 1.5a21, $URL$ Its a know bug and they dont know why it does that. Also Ive heard that after reinstalling it it will work for a while but thats more of a workaround 

I have an hp pavilion dv6000 laptop that gives me this error 0x000000f when starting up. So I tried to reinstall windows using the recovery partition and that makes it to 11% recovery and then freezes and wont go any farther. I have tried memtest and Ive tried booting with only half the memory but it still doesnt work. Any ideas? 

Im pretty sure the disk you are talking about is for recovery purposes. If you want to insure your computer against a hard drive crash i would say get the disk. I know that as a pc tech it makes it alot easier on us to get your new hard drive running if you have your own disks 

This does sound like virus activity. I would run a full scan of Malwarebytes and see what that finds. Other scans you could run include: 

this is the system key: [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\ Uninstall] this is the user key: [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\ Uninstall] for more info read this article 

Try using system restore to roll back your computer to before you updated ICQ. Keep in mind this will restore all data to the date that you select including any instant messaging you have done since. The link above tells you how to access system restore. This link gives you step-by-step instructions. 

Try GetDataBack. I have had great success with this utility. I have also heard Recuva works good though Ive never used it personally As far as a diagnostics tool, here is a link to the samsung tool. Note: Ive never used this myself 

If the computer boots with a boot disk then the hard drive is almost definitly the problem Also if you have to replace the drive and recover data this tool works excellent! 

I downloaded an ISO of Windows 7 Home Premium 64 bit From Digital River to try to restore a laptop. I downloaded the ISO and burned it to a Memorex DVD and tried to boot the laptop from it using the boot options but the laptop acted like there was no disk in the drive and booted from the Hard Drive like normal. I tried another boot disk to see if it was the DVD drive but the laptop booted to that disk just fine. Am I burning this disk wrong? Any ideas? Lenovo g570 

Alternatively, Word will draw table gridlines if you have enabled under File > Options > Advanced > Show document content. The option above only applies to tables while this applies to the entire document. Also, the lines are dotted instead of dashed. 

You don't need an AutoHotkey script. You need to learn how to use the available API (commands) to achieve what you want. To send input directly to a window or its controls, active or not, you can use the ControlSend command. 

Essentially, yes. Your local server should function the same remotely. The only difference is how you access it. For example, I have a LAMP (Linux Apache MySQL PHP) server running on my notebook. I use it to test my web projects, which I later move to a remote LAMP server hosted by a third party. The code runs the same in both environments. 

If you don't want to use third party software, Windows offers a similar solution with shortcut () files. You can create a shortcut to your script or executable and then define a shortcut key in the Properties dialog for the shortcut. The limitation of this approach is that not all key combinations are accepted. For example, Ctrl+X is replaced with Ctrl+Alt+X. 

To add a new item to the Right-click context menu of .png files, you add a new key and subkey to in the Registry. Based on your example, importing the following .reg file should work: 

Are you running Console2 as an administrator? If so, certain AutoHotkey commands performed on or in Console2's window may be ignored. You can get around this by running the AHK script as an administrator, too. One important thing to realize: you had a hotkey mapped more than once, so AHK would run through each method in order, from top to bottom. I fixed your logic and changed a couple of things. This should work! :) Note: This script can easily be adapted for other programs. Just change the , , and commands. 

Now when you go back to a page, the zoom level will be reset to . Case 2: Your Firefox profile's font settings may have been altered. Go to: 

If you are using Windows, you can 'install' multiple iterations of Firefox Portable, as an alternative to using the Profile Manager via 

I am writing a personal application using AutoHotkey to speed up common tasks. One thing I do often is change my desktop background to solid white (for screenshots I post on Super User, as you may have noticed). My current approach is the following: