I am using gVim's function to pop a dialog waiting for the user to click a button. However, there seems to be a difference in the appearance of the dialog when called from : Using the command: generates the following dialog: 

What would be the complementing metaphor for a system comprised of a host computer running an application and an accelerator system doing some specific type of calculations? What is a good name for the accelerator part? UPDATE: In our context, we are really talking about an embedded processor supporting the CPU, which can be an Intel CPU or an ARM controller, etc. Think of a GPGPU for example. However, at the current state, this is merely a dev board connected to a linux machine via USB. It should not change the relationship between the two, though. 

Cell references can be constructed programmatically using a combination of the concatenate(), text() and indirect() functions with some numeric formula. This works fine, but can make the call formula look crowded and clumsy. It also prevents the referred cell address to be automatically updated when the target cell is moved (dragged) on the spreadsheet. For example, make a cell equal to B2: 

I am using WinMerge (v 2.14) extensively to compare Git repositories. The code tree is comprised of multiple folders with subfolders and dozens of source files. When I make changes to a file or a directory in teh tree, I want to refresh the compare on that specific directory. WinMerge provides a menu item ( -> ), a hotkey (Ctrl+F5) and a context menu item for this operation. However, non of these options does not perform the diff update, and I have to run a full diff (F5) to refresh the view. Is this a WinMerge's bug? How to update a subtree diff view? 

It is possible, but you need to put the iso onto a usb disk. (4GB or more, I reccomend 8GB just in case) Now download the Windows 7 USB/DVD Download Tool and install it, afterwards open it and select the ISO file, click USB then let it do its job. Once it says its completed, go to Computer (Or this pc) and click your USB. Then navigate to the sources folder and delete the file. When you load your windows 10 installer from usb, it will show all windows installations! 

I have an Epson WF-3620 and recently it couldn't print anything, as it sounded as if the paper was stuck, then the printer rolled the paper through and displayed an error on the screen, it told me to turn the printer off via the button and turn it back on again. Now I am getting this issue where before the booting finishes and it takes me to the home screen, the printhead suddenly stops and the entire thing shuts down. Its also always in this position when the entire thing shuts down (The printhead is the grey box with colours inside) 

Right click on your start menu button. click on search. type power shell. right click on power shell from search results. click on run as administrator. Execute below code : 

I am writing an equation with the "new" Equation Editor in MS Word 2010 (Insert -> Equation). When using one of the "large operators", for example the Sigma, with lower and upper limits, there are two styles for displaying the limits - below and above the Sigma, or to the right as super/subscripts. I am choosing the first style - limits above and below to get the standard notation, but Word formats the equation the other way. Now, the object has a bounding box with a context menu on its right. In this menu, I can select Change to Display and the equation is moved to a new line, w/o adjacent text - but, now the sigma limits appear as requested! Then, selecting Change to Inline reverts to the previous form. 

I have the Syncrosoft License Manager installed, and as far as I can tell, this is a dongle-based licensing scheme. I do not have any software that requires a dongle, nor do I have a key dongle. I would like to remove this program, but am not sure if it will affect one of my installed programs. How can I determine which software (if at all) installed this license manager? 

As for the last question, I imagine it is done in order to keep the connection open and not time-out. If so, can it be disabled or changed frequency? At least, can I prevent this annoying popup window? 

After switching the Encryption Type in the Wireless Network Properties from AES to TKIP, I get downstream speeds of 22+Mbps again. Pings and upstream speeds are basically unaffected (11ms -> 10ms, 0.9Mbps -> 1.0Mbps). This is reproducible: after switching back to AES, I get the old downstream speeds again. Explanations are welcome, all of this makes no sense to me. When it was still fast a few days ago, was I still on TKIP? Then what switched me!? Or why is AES suddenly so much slower than TKIP? Why is it just as fast on other networks? Edit: A bit a research made me believe that by switching to TKIP, I implicitly also switched from 802.11n to 802.11g (because TKIP is not allowed on n due to its security problems). That would also explain why I'm now seeing a connection speed of 54Mbps. So now the question becomes, why does g work, but n stopped working? (Mind you, I still prefer a connection speed of 54Mbps with 22Mbps actual throughput over connection speeds of 130Mbps with 2Mbps throughput.) 

I've got two HP ZR24w external monitors. Used for years. A few weeks ago, I turned the system off in the evening while it was still working fine, and when I turned it back on the next morning, one of the monitors started behaving oddly. Here's the current situation: I just got a new laptop. When I connect the 'broken' monitor via an HDMI-to-DVI cable. The monitor shows an active DVI signal, but no image. Windows does not detect a monitor at all. I unplug the monitor and connect the DVI end of the same cable to the other monitor. It works perfectly, uses the native resolution and Windows detects the display. I also ran a subset of the tests with Ubuntu 14.10. Bottom line: 'broken' monitor connected via HDMI-to-DVI cable doesn't work, other monitor is detected automatically. So it's not a pure OS problem either. I think at this point, we can conclude that there's something broken with the hardware of the first monitor, possibly the EDID? However, here's the oddity: I also have a DL-195, a USB-to-DVI converter. With that, I can connect the 'broken' monitor to my old laptop and it's working at the correct resolution, even though Windows lists it as "No Monitor". Here's what it looks like when it works (even though it says "No Monitor", but the resolution is correct and it works perfectly well): 

I recently got my new Intel core 2 extreme (3.0Ghz, LGA775) and have just installed it When turning on the pc is says this: "Alert! Incompatible processor detected. System Halted!" I'm running a Dell optiplex 760 with 6GB DDR2 ram 

I've had this custom build for 6 months and only today has this happened. I shut off the computer to go out and upon returning the computer will not power on at all when pressing the button. The green LED on my GPU shows that the PSU and MB are not dead as it's recieving power. What I have tried 

So I currently have this issue where my Epson WF-3620DWF can't find the blue and yellow cartridges. (They are official epson ones) and I have a full black cartridge in there. How do I force my printer to ONLY print in black and ignore the cartridge(s) not recognised error? 

These DNSUnlocker things are everywhere on every page on my PC. I don't even know how it even got on my system. After finding it in control panel and uninstalling it, it seems to still terrorize my pc, with most words becoming links for "ads" which is really annoying when trying to click play on one of my games. I won't be able to add images because the images button has been taken over by the adware. How can I stop this "DNS Unlocker" adware from messing up my PC? 

After a couple of weeks working with IDLE, I am trying to add the PTVS extension to VS Express 2013 for Desktop. Following this page, I downloaded the installer and run the file. The dialog opens asking for terms agreement and when approving and clicking , I get an error message: 

When using the command to shift the script parameters one position down, I can see the values shift by echo-ing the parameter: 

I am using the latest Firefox (17.0.1) on Win XP and during the last couple of weeks I have a problem where as I increase the window's size, the tabs and other window content go blank. If I increase it even more, or maximize it, the window is not redrawn at all. Starting the browser in Safe-Mode seems to solve this problem. However, all the extensions are disabled (obviously). So, I started gradually disabling my extensions until I got to the point where all add-ons and plugins were disabled, just as is the case in Safe Mode. This, however, did not solve the problem! So my question is, what is the difference between Safe Mode and all extensions disabled? 

I have a DLNA enabled Samsung BluRay player. It is connected to my home network and I am able to stream media from my Win 7 computer to the TV via the player. However, I'd like to use this player as a BluRay drive to my PC. Is this possible? 

I recently purchased a series of a TV Show off the Microsoft Store as at the time I didn't have any credit on iTunes. After I downloaded them I tried to play one using Windows Media player, but said it encountered a problem and refused to play it. I tried with VLC Media player and all I get is a very glitched out picture. I attempted to covert the video into .avi using DIVX but it still returned the same results. Why is this happening? 

Go to run (Windows + r) type regedit and press enter. click ok when notification window prompt. Go to HKEY_CURRENT_USER>Software>Microsoft>Windows>CurrentVersion>Explorer>Advanced Create a Dword (32BIT) value by right clicking and selecting New > Dword (32bit) with the name ‘EnableXamlStartMenu’. Give it value 0 Log off and login again. 

Your USB has most likely become corrupt. Open CMD and type in when CMD shows in the output type in locate your 64MB USB drive. Mostly USB's are recongised as disk 2, BUT PLEASE CHECK THIS OR YOU MAY LOSE IMPORTANT DATA! type in WARNING: PLEASE MAKE SURE IT HAS SELECTED THE USB AND NOT A PARTITION ON YOUR HARD DRIVE! when it outputs type Wait for the process to finish. Close DISKPART and press WIN+R and type in Check to see if the full 4GB is there (In windows' case, 3.7GB*) If it is, right click the partition and select "New Simple Volume" Follow the steps and select "Quick Format" You should now have your full 4GB Back. *Windows technically does not use Gigabytes, but instead Gibibytes. Learn more here: EDIT: If it does not even let you run CLEAN, your USB drive has most likely triggered the read-only function in the firmware, which is irreversable What is a Gibibyte? 

When connecting the same setup to my new laptop, Windows will display "No Monitor" and give me a selection of resolutions. No matter what I choose here, the monitor will display 1280x1024. Here's one more data point that I can't figure out what it means: when I connect the 'broken' monitor via the HDMI port to my old laptop, it gives me a couple of weird resolutions (e.g. 1920x1080, 1680x1050, 1400x1050), but not 1920x1200. The refresh rate is shown as 59Hz instead of the usual 60Hz. I can change it and apply the change, the screen flickers and the new refresh rate is displayed, but opening the same dialog will show it as 59Hz again. Here's what it looks like when connected to the old laptop via HDMI, stuck at the wrong resolutions at 59Hz: 

Here's some info on a related use case: You want to redirect the output inside the container, which is running on Docker Cloud. In my case, I'm executing a long-running data analysis script (Java) on Docker Cloud. Each container is supposed to write its own results file. I'm using the image and overwrite the 'Run command' with the following line: 

Are you sure you're sending the tabs to the right device? As there's no maintenance site for these, it's easy to have old device entries in your list which are no longer connected to a physical device. I also commonly have stale duplicate device entries (e.g. when I reinstall the OS of a phone without remembering to disconnect Sync first). I would try renaming the "desktop" device in Sync and confirming that the new device name shows up on the mobile. If not, you know you have a setup issue on the desktop. If the new name does show up on the mobile, then it's something else. 

Your only choice will be to use a software to retrieve the missing key. Download this software and unzip the software, after opening try searching for it with the MSDM option checked, 

What should I do now? I am completely out of ideas. (I have also tried BOOTICE, but that did nothing too) 

This is a Toshiba C50B14D, today when trying to power it on it refused to, the power light would illuminate, the fan would spin very quietly, then it would shut off. No display or anything. I tried the usual Toshiba diagnostic steps all the forums are talking about, but none of them have worked. I tried powering it on with the power cord and no battery, it does the same but the charging indicator will flick off then on again. Is the main board or any other component dead? I'm not sure as it doesn't have error codes like Hp laptops do. 

Your key is actually stored in the BIOS. But don't go looking for it in there. Since microsoft decided to remove the stickers at the bottom of your laptop, 

The " that are included are required Option 2 also fixes your issue with Microsoft Edge, Cortana, etc. Hopefully one of the options worked for you! 

I want people to login to my sky router like you do in cafes and some places with free wifi. (e.g Wifi powered by the cloud) I want to do this as I would like to put web restrictions on different users. For example one account (Named "foo") gets access to everything. But the other account (Named "foo2") only gets access to a quarter of things. 

You can see that I loaded the correct monitor driver. Changing the frequency does not work/has no effect, it will always jump back to 59Hz when reopening the dialog. 

My UEFI/GPT installation of Windows 10, 64-bit doesn't boot anymore. It's stuck somewhere in the bootloading process with a blank screen and no error message, I cannot tell at which point exactly. I suspect that something has been written into the UEFI firmware's NVRAM that prevents Windows from starting up. Opening the drive on another machine reveals that the partitions, file systems and data are all there and fine. It just doesn't boot anymore. For possibly unrelated reasons not relevant to this question, I'm unable to boot into the Windows RE environment, but I can boot from Linux USB drives, for example. Is there a way to repair the BCD and the other bootloader files of Windows 10 without booting into WinRE? If I understand correctly, commands like bcdedit affect the NVRAM of the UEFI firmware, so I cannot run those on another machine "against an external drive" that I've mounted, can I? Any other way to do the same thing, possibly from a live Linux system? 

In closing, there's obviously a hardware problem. But in one specific configuration, the monitor still fully works on the old laptop. Do I nevertheless have to throw it away and buy a new one? Or can I force its detection (in Windows) somehow to make it work on the new laptop? 

So I just refreshed my windows 10 Pc. (Keeps all my files) but now at the boot screen I'm stuck with this: 

System restore didn't have anything, system image didn't have anything, and startup repair was just useless. It just couldn't Identify the problem. This is a really serious issue as I cannot even get into my PC. Can someone help with these questions: 

Using my sandisk cruzer glide (8GB), I was putting windows 7 onto the usb to install onto another PC. When halfway through, it said "This drive is read-only". I got confused, but then I went to computer and the I couldn't even open the drive. I checked it in diskmgmt.msc and it said "read only". Afterwards I checked the USB on gparted live and it turns out the partiton has changed to HFS+. After trying to rewrite the partition table (and it failing because of read-only) I tried using diskpart next apparently I just had to do (with disk being the USB) but that did nothing. When doing it still said even though below it says . I've also tried chipgenius, and only got this far: 

I just switched on my computer, running Windows 8.1 and all of these weird symbols have replaced the names of my items on the desktop and apps!!