Never used that kind of screen, but this is supposed to drive it. EDIT: how to read and write data from and to terminal in python. You'll need to import os: 

Regarding this, the output is 3A. So, it must be ok. Personal approach to this: I do recommend get some 3S (11.1V) or 4s (14.8V) lipo battery, which will give you much room (in terms of current) for powering the leds, but you'll need to get a lipo charger (can be found for about 10€ some times at chinese websites) If the game is permanent and doesn't matter how much it weights (ie: not a handheld device) I'll recommend get a car-like battery. There are some with a small footprint than can provide lot of current, but I'll go with the lipo 

There is several projects for doing this, but the one that I like the most is blynk (that I've recommended several times by now here and iot stack exchange) I've a similar setup at home, where I've a node in the living room that reads a bosch bme280 sensor and controls a led strip with a mosfet (but the setup for a relay will be quite similar). In the bedroom, I've two devices, a nodemcu with a bme280 and a sonoff s20. The nodemcu reads the temperature and humidity, and if the humidity is below a certain value, it will send a "message" to the sonoff that turns on the relay after the humidity readed is higher that a certain value. Also, You can have charts and a lot of stuff to play with, which make it's a great environment to play with. 

I’ve used a lens from quality sunglasses over the lens of an outdoor installation, and after 3-4 years it has suffered no noticeable loss in picture quality (detail, contrast, colours). So, as the above answer suggests, a rudimentary filtering out of the useless UV would be helpful. Have a look at outdoor CCTV cameras for industry use (factory perimeter e.g.). The polarized glass is one thing, but these cameras stay online for a decade in all weather. It’s just a 640x480 streaming ethernet (I think I used wget+curl to grab jpgs, and perhaps vlc to grab the stream) camera with manual focus, so installing the overlay (the sunglass lens) was trivial. It faces direct sunlight max 5 hours per day. There has been no noticeable degradation in the images. I have not made a baseline with an unfiltered lens. Google UV lenses for CCTV cameras; your wide lens needs something bigger. Trivia: the PV / solar panel crowd have done a lot of interesting research into what diminishes the effect of their panels... I would test a filter over a 5V cell, and see the current with a multimeter across a low-ohm power resistor. Anything that gives high transparency, but very low current - compared to the unfiltered baseline - would probably be a good filter. Glass with a metal component alone diminishes effect a lot. Also know that professional installations often utilize a small heating element (a power resistor would do, or some nichrome wound around a ceramic element) to ‘push’ out dampness and condensation. It would be prudent to use a thermocoupler (MAX6675 on I2C is ok, and low-power) to turn that heating element on/off w. a MOSFET (IRF3202 is very good, but perhaps overkill, needs 10V to gate for full on, NTD4906N is logic level and a better choice), or a DS18B20 (onewire?) A DHT22 (I2C) would let your system know both temperature and humidity, and then trip heating element based on ambient humidity. Essentially, humidity is dissipated if internal temperature exceeds external temperature. I heard this from an electrician who installs camera systems. To further protect electronics, they can be coated in nail polish (Great scott made a youtube video about this), or embedded in epoxy. Brought to you by the Awful Hacks dept. 

Here you can find an example on how to drive one or multiple arduinos using i2c. It's really well explained there, so, I don't see a point on duplicate the info here. Please take a look at the link and, if you have any doubts, I'll be glad to help you out. There is a couple of steps to do, but basically yo need to configure i2c as master on the pi, then configure arduino as i2c slave. You're supposed to add a level converter in between, but most people is getting ok results without it, and bad result with it, so... I don't know what to say about it. Benefits on i2c are that you can connect up to 112 nodes on an 7 bits i2c bus. So, just need to use 4 wires from pi to arduino 1, then 4 wires to arduino 2, etc. Also, you can add i2c sensors and actuators as well on the bus. 

I've found this, although it's for ubuntu, debian and derivates... but might work. Try configure X for every one: 

Raspberry pi on HDMI is an OUTPUT, so, it won't be possible to use it to gather the data from the hdmi. My approach to this will be use an hdmi usb recorder. 

I've worked a bunch on this with my father and some colleagues. As far as we can tell, the i2c-bus.read functions identically to Wire.requestFrom, as we've been using .read on the Raspberry Pi and the .requestFrom interrupt on the Arduino side. The Arduino responds in the way you'd hope/expect it to. I can only really speak to the actual functionality. I'm not sure if there are differences when you get closer to the metal, but I would expect them to be pretty close since I2C is such a simple serial bus. 

If you have an external display (i.e. a TV with an HDMI port or a desktop monitor) you can simply use that to get started. However, if you don't have that, you can follow this guide which should get you started. The linked page walks you through using a laptop screen as a display for your Pi. Luckily, all you need is an Ethernet cable! 

If you are using Kodi, you can follow this tutorial. Fairly deep into the page, it mentions sound quality. You can use the HiFiBerry to provide better sound quality. I believe the HiFi will work with standard 5:1 surround sound. It functions both as the Pi's power source and as an on-board amplifier for really nice sound quality. Hope that helps! 

So, you will need to check out current consumption of all devices. I've found online that the servos consumption is between 0.25 to 0.75 A. Led consumption depends on the led itself. The current needs will be modified by how much resistance it will face. Raspberry pi depend on what are you using. Assuming Typical bare-board active current consumption will be 400mA. So, you'll be drawing, at minimal power consumption 250x2 + 400 + led_number*led_drawing. = 900 + LED mA which gives you only 1.5A for the leds, which I assume is too low for powering the 5 meters of the led strip. 

It depend on what your programming skills are. I'll go with python and pyserial and picamera. It'll work both for usb and gpio serial. Basic code will be create a python script that start at reboot using crontab. That script will wait for a serial input from the serial port and read whatever comes. If the message is "TAKE A PICTURE" then, run code to take a picture using picamera. In arduino, you'll need to create a sketch that send the message at certain event. It could be time based, user input, or sensor input. You can get rid of the arduino anyways and handle everything from the pi. If you want to take the picture when some event happend, like reading from a sensor is a certain value, you can read those from the pi itself. 

Use directly after plugging it in. Ensure the phone can establish a data connection over USB - you may need to enable debug mode in Settings. Compare /dev filelisting before and after to see all device files for your phone. , plug it in, wait 10 seconds, , then . If in doubt whether the phone even registers on the Pi, issue . Pi1+2 will not be able to supply enough current for charging, and that may foil your worthy endeavour. 

Have a look at the Ubertooth One from Great Scott Gadgets; it accepts 2.4GHz antennas with RP-SMA connector - the type usually found on SoHo routers... $URL$ $URL$ At a glance, current consumption ranges from 90 to 220mA, so if not using a Pi 3 you may need a USB power injector, like this one: $URL$ 

Use a small >5W handheld transceiver with VOX set to a decent sensitivity. VHF has a bit better range than UHF. Trip the VOX with a generic click.wav, then send your data. It’s important to use a nice USB soundadapter for this - you can get >=57600 baud with amodem and LOS. If you need to send data to the Pi, the transceiver will accomodate this. You may want to look at drone antennas instead of generic whip antennas for the band you use. If you use a whip or ducky, is important to have the same polarity on both your antennas. You’ll need 3 3.5mm and 1 2.5mm male jacks. Remember to connect the shield properly on both ends, or there will be no love. Romanz’ amodem package handles this well, though you will need to hack bits out of it to suit your design. $URL$ It is worth mentioning I can open repeaters more than 25km away with a 4W transceiver, and no LOS. 

Is it best to simply stick these communication functions in a loop? I have several other major functions (reading/writing from/to GPIO, exchanging data with a webserver) that are about equally important as I2C comms. What is best programming practice here? I'm brand new to Javascript and want to do this right. 

I am creating a master/slave setup with an RPi as the master and an Arduino as the slave. For now I am only using one, but I will eventually have up to 25 on a single I2C bus. On the Arduino side, the Wire library has a Wire.onRequest function as well as a Wire.requestFrom function, where .requestFrom is used by the Master to request a number of bytes from the slave, which uses Wire.onRequest to respond with the requested info. I'm currently using the Node.js i2c-bus library on my Pi to handle I2C. I'm wondering if the i2c-bus.read function works similarly to the Wire.requestFrom function. Are these apples and oranges, or functionally the same? The i2c-bus documentation mentions nothing about a specific "request" functionality. More generally, is the plain I2C read the same as the Arduino's "request" functionality? 

I am using a Raspberry Pi 3 to control a series of Arduinos in a master/slave setup. All communication is via I2C. I've done quite a bit of googling on this and can't seem to find an answer on best practice for setting up a repeated I2C exchange. The communication flow is as follows: 

The pin1 (3V3) is a "power supply pin". This means that it will be capable of give all the current that the 3.3V regulator has available. GPIOs have a current limitation, depending on the hardware. Check this to know more about max current per gpio. About the resistors to the buzzer. Those are current limiter resistors. Those are used to keep current as low as needed and don't burn stuff inside your controller. It might, and probably will work, but you're risking to burn your setup. 

As some other users said, is not a good option to mess with that voltage if you don't know what you're doing. Although, if you want to take a look, this is a common schematic of a relay controlled unit: 

In this stack overflow question it said that the issue is caused by " a conflit between two DNS servers : isc-dhcp-server & udhcpd" and it's been solved: 

The pi A has a micro usb cable for charging, just use any micro usb b type to power it, using the pwr in port. 

Relays have three pins: COM, NO, NC standing for Common, Normally Open and Normally Closed. It will depend on how you want to interface with the relay or relay module, you'll need to change your wiring. Usually, you will cut one wire coming from the power and pass it to COM of relay, after that, grab the other side of the wire and put it on NO or NC. Applying or removing V on the correct pad (usually labeled as INx on modules) it will change the state of the relay, thus, changing the "state" of the thing connected through it. 

Use a TP4056 IC with a DW01A chip. It will have a microusb port and power input, a battery charge output, and a battery output. It will protect against overcharging and overdischarging. It even has current limiting. IIRC the SG90s use 450mA loaded, which is no problem for this IC. 

Unload the bluetooth drivers with if you're concerned. Stop the bluetooth daemon etc first. Make the scripts concerned non-executable, or use / to permanently disable bluetooth. 

Any 5V buzzer will do. I use one from a dismantled microwave oven in my desk alarm clock. Here’s a link to a good one: buzzer It’s the exact same one I use. Pardon me, but those smaller buzzers you mention are cr?p. Microwave buzzers are always louder, cooler, and look sweet. When singularity is achieved, I’ll be sporting a gatling laser on one of my bionic limbs, and I’ll be using a microwave buzzer to alert raiders/others of their impending doom, when they jump the queue in the supermarket. I CURRENTLY use one on an arduino with the toneAC library (which can be trivially made to work with wiringPi), but you don’t strictly need it. It will make it last longer, using a weak AC current. Use a N-FET, like 2N7000 (S-G-D), or NPN like 2N2222A (E-B-C). For the 2N2222A, simply connect 5V in series with a 100 ohm resistor to a buzzer pin, the other buzzer pin to COLLECTOR of 2N2222A, and EMITTER to GND. Use a 1000 ohms resistor in series with a GPIO pin of your choosing, and on the other side of the resistor connect this signal line to BASE. When you bring that pin HIGH, there will be a loud buzz. I had to use a 150 ohm resistor to make the buzzing less annoying. Enjoy! 

It depends on the hardware, specifically on the current that the gpio is capable of give. If the current is not enough, it won't work. The proper (and one of the correct ways) to do this, is hook up a small circuit that uses a transistor or a mosfet. The gpio will turn "on" the transistor/mosfet by powering the gate pin of the transistor, allowing the current to flow through emitter-collector pins. It will be something like this: 

You want to reuse the controller? You can use a usb snes controller. If not want to use a usb controller, you can wire the snes controller to the gpio, there is how to here. 

Does the driver need to have a network to install? if not, you can place it under the boot partition and install it. Also, you can convert your pi zero into a usb dongle and connect it using this tutorial by adafruit. From that link: 

Yes, the best way to do it is to use a transistor. Look for logic level transistors. Probably all the MOSFETs here with 2.7V and lower Vgs "FET Feature" will do the work. 

Also, don't forget to put a flyback diode, which is a protection against the inductive current that may appear when switching "off" the transistor/mosfet.