If you can connect with this from command line you can connect with Sql Developer. You have two options 

You join this 2 table and show more business friendly information in view. PersonId,Name,LastName, Phone1,Email1 Here you would like to update Phone1 and Email1. But your personID maps to two different rows, may be more rows, in this example. In this view, again, database has no way to find WHICH rows to update. Note: If you restrict your view sql and makes it clear to find which rows to update it may work. This two example is first examples which comes to my mind. They can be increased. But concept is clear. Database needs to map 1 key value to 1 table. For example you have one to one PERSON, PERSON_DETAILS tables. Here view and update will work since it is one to one. 

The catch here. Oracle Connection string for OCI expect same argument in your tnsnames.ora file. If you use basic connection you should be able to connect from everywhere without modification. But if you need to connect with other connection types, you may need to enter your IP address in your tnsnames.ora file. 

When you need to connect any database , you need to provide connection string. Oracle is the same. What you need to provide is following information basically. 

After reading FrustratedWithFormsDesigner's answer , I decided to go with executable script approach. An Expert System consists of following parts: 

One way, using Oracle SQL Developer Database Export. It creates sql statements file, you can use to recreate your database. Note that, this way is most similar to mysql developers but it can take a lot of time compared to other methods if your database is big. 

Note that Caching does not need to be for database only. For example you may cache messages from mail server, or expensive file parsing operation result also. Caching is the number one layer which increases speed of application. 

Second easy connect is same. You provide information contained in tnsnames.ora in command line. Here host = 1 , port (2), service_name = (3). As you can see it is same as first one. You give same information to connector as before. You may skip default information like port. 

I do not know if there exists any tool which will be able to help you write stored procedures and triggers in one place and export them to different databases. These change from database to database a lot. Sql server uses TSQL for trigger and stored procedures. Oracle uses PLSQL 

I suggest that always give an owner to database. Since some tools complains when database does not have an owner, for example diagram tool. 

Database Server Name or IP. Database Name, Oracle SID or Service Name Datapase Port Username and password 

This execution takes 4 minutes, that is 240 seconds. This is almost 40 times normal. How can I find what is the problem? I know that stored procedures does not have execution plans? How can I investigate what is the problem? I am using Oracle 10gR2 RAC. 

First connection method is Local naming which uses Oracle Net. Before TCP/IP was standardized a lot of third party networking protocols existed. To overcome this problem, oracle used Oracle NET. According to Oracle Documentation Local Naming : "Resolves a net service name stored in a tnsnames.ora file stored on a client". tnsnames.ora file contains 1-3 of above. Therefore you only need to provide (4) username and password. Below an example line of tnsnames.ora can be seen. 

It runs successfully all three tools. It seems that I lack a basic knowledge about this. I would like pointers to tutorials about this behavior, explanations etc. 

I am a better learner with visual content. Therefore I actively seek video tutorials when I start learning a subject. For oracle below links are my finds. I would like some additions to these. 

We also included schemas like for other activities TEMP,MAINTANENCE. In the management studio, you can filter using schema name. A developer responsible for MODULE1 , filter according to name and works almost all of the time with only these tables. This makes it very easy for developers, dbas, new comers alike to understand database tables. 

How can I get list of stored procedures/Function which are compiled for debug? I do not see relevant column in following tables. 

If you can not install Reporting Services Server or do not want to, you can still use it for basic reporting purposes. Take a look at here,Microsoft Reporting without SQL Server Reporting Services. Note that , I gave you examples for reporting services since it is easy to use out of box and in most cases free. But there are a lot of other tools exists which may be more suitable/powerful for your use case. 

Only after this line, we can connecto to database. Interesting thing is in this 4 node RAC , we need to wait for this event in all instances before database start serving. 

It seems that I can not get INT, INTEGER values, I used in my create table syntax? Int, Integer, small int seems to be a syntactic sugar only. But Toad at least holds information about INTEGER part even though he considers smallint,int,decimal and integer same. Is there any way to find that if a column is INT/INTEGER/SMALLINT using SQL? 

This code works in SQL Server 2005+ but gives error in Oracle. Any idea how can I solve this problem? Following workaround exists. 

This solution obviously in linux/unix since it uses the fact that "Oracle uses process architecture in linux/unix" and bunch of other unix commands. But Oracle in windows uses thread architecture. Is there any equivalent in Windows Box, graphical or otherwise? I am aware of Process Explorer and I will look into it. But I wanted to ask here first. To re-iterate I am not asking how to kill in windows box (orakill) but how to find session/thread in Windows using command line tools without logging in database so that I can use orakill. 

Expert Systems are a branch of Artificial Intelligence. These systems try to capture knowledge of Experts via set of rules. Most of the rules are stated in natural language. But they need to be interpreted by rule engine therefore they are statements in the form of classic if-then-else. 

External Procedures are external functions/procedures in Operating System. You write a stored procedure in PL/SQL, use call specification to call other languages in operating System. This potentially gives you power to call any function in other languages. Following usages come to my mind. 

These usages in my opinion are extreme and unnecessary. All of them can be accomplished with application programs. Nowadays nobody uses database as it is. There are always applications built using Java, .NET, PHP etc. Whenever possible, these other languages should be used in application. 

In this example: your values comes from more than one rows. If you try to update AverageSalary in this view, database has no way to find WHICH rows to update. Example2: Your view shows values from more than one table. Your view shows values from PERSON and PERSON_CONTACT_DETAILS(ID,PersonID,ContactType,ContactValue) table. Example rows : 

Stored Procedures and External Procedure are distinct ones. Stored procedures are stored in database and used from there. You can write them in different languages. Also note that you can pre-compile PL/SQL instead of interpreting 

ps -ef ,find all processs pipe it to grep filter $ORACLE_SID, that is find $ORACLE_SID lines, pipe it filter out grep's line filter "LOCAL=NO" use awk to print column 2, that is process id use xargs kill command to kill this processes. 

So I can connect to database using SYS account, but WHY not application user account? Situation resolved itself in 15 minutes. I can connect to database now. But there is nothing in the alert logs about this situation. Should I check additional places to learn about real problem? Is there anything I can do in similar situation? After a while, I understood why this is happening! Oracle executes following command which we can see in alert logs. 

I am trying to use WITH statement and DELETE together. But I get ORA-00928 error. Basically my code is like following 

I was asking more information about Operating System. Then I wondered if an generic sql can give this information? Following things come to my mind. 

Modelling tools will be able to help you with table, views and indexes. These tools are called with different names. Entity Relationship tools, Database Diagram, Database Modelling tools. Some examples are : 

I decided to use powershell engine as Inference Engine. Therefore all rules in knowledge base are powershell scripts. Inference Engine provides , patient's details to script and takes output. My GUI shows scripts. Allow users to test , update scripts. It is in my opinion only reasonable approach for a arbitrary rule based approach. I have chosen this since users will more likely want to change rules. Following part is not related to database design issues, therefore not completely related to this question. I decided to use powershell due to following reasons: