Ideally, processes run within will respond to the in a timely fashion, taking care of any housekeeping before terminating. If you know that the process either doesn't have any housekeeping to perform (e.g: ), or will not respond properly to , you can specify a shorter (or longer) timeout with the flag: 

This is typically called "proxying". You would setup a server listening on port 80 - this would then handle all incoming requests, and can pass them on to other HTTP servers (local or remote) depending on any of a number of things including: 

This probably is an issue with water... Many keyboards have a two plastic layers with conductive traces and pads on them, separated by a third plastic layer with holes under each key (to allow contact). When you then press the key, the two outer layers come into contact with each other, and complete the circuit - a very small movement. See picture below. 

Try right clicking on the directory or file that is exhibiting this behaviour -> -> Select the tab. You might see entries like where you would expect to see a user or group name - this is the SID, which is usually hidden from you. Click (UAC should pop up), click , and then enter and press . Now select the entry, and check the / check box, and press . This may take a while. Click in the original properties dialog, and then try opening the directory / file again... you should be granted access. 

Some formats of virtual hard disks allow their content to be stored as multiple smaller files, so searching for a single "full size" file may not reveal what you're after. is the extension for one of the available virtual hard disk formats... others include and . 

First we must establish the definitions of "download" and "upload" - they are confused all too readily. 

In summary, SFP, DOCSIS, and Ethernet are all standards for transmitting data over a physical medium. The standards will often dictate physical aspects of the interface - for example SFP specifies the size and shape of a module, while DOCSIS and Ethernet specify the requirements of the cable. 

The whole network is considered for this terminology - not just the link between the routers. It's highly likely that Network A is a LAN, and Network B is a LAN. If you want to know what the "red link" is called, then one of these could probably fit: 

This is a "SATA Express" connector, something which never got much interest due to M.2 and U.2 appearing on the scene. U.2 and SATA Express are mechanically compatible, but have different pin layouts. It is similar to the SAS SFF-8482 connector (same pin layout), but has an extra mechanical feature - the notch in the center block. This document goes some way to identifying and explaining the differences (see page 48): $URL$ 

To further clarify RJ-45 and CATx... RJ-45 is just an 8 pin connector and can be used for any type of cable, twisted or not. It is typically (though not always) crimped onto solid-core cables. 100Base-Tx only requires two pairs, so you may see some "Ethernet cables" with only 4 wires in the RJ-45 connectors at either end. As mentioned above, telephone systems exist that use the same connector, and will likely not use twisted pairs for short runs (e.g: wall to phone). RJ-45 outlines the shape / size / locking / etc... As you may have found out an RJ-11 connector fits into an RJ-45 socket. As @JourneymanGeek points out, Ethernet specifies what signals to transmit and receive, and puts requirements on the characteristics of the cable - certain signal loss is acceptable at certain frequencies, and certain inter-pair cross-talk levels (where the signals on one pair can be "heard" on another pair). The Category standards are then a way to enforce or guarantee the physical characteristics of a cable. CAT6 will have better performance than CAT5 (250 MHz vs 100 MHz). The signal loss, crosstalk and immunity to external electromagnetic effects are all achieved by various wire thickness, twist rate, and shielding. Little known fact: each of the four pairs in a CAT5/CAT6 cable are twisted at different rates (number of twists per meter) to reduce the cross talk between them. A higher twist rate increases the immunity, but also consumes more cable so costs more - hence CAT5 is cheaper than CAT6. 

sends a to the main process of the container. The process is able to mask/ignore a , and if it does so (or handles it without terminating) "nothing" will happen. After a timeout (default 10 seconds), sends a to the main process. This signal cannot be masked by a process, and thus it dies immediately with no opportunity for executing a shutdown prodedure. 

This should output a value that is approximately the same size as the partition. Then, resize the Logical Volume: 

A "Root Hub" is not a "Hub" - it's rather a thing that provides n USB ports. All of the ports on a "Root Hub" aren't channelled through a single USB link as they would be for a standard "Hub", thus if the Root Hub is connected to the system with sufficient bandwidth, then the total bandwidth across the ports may exceed the USB spec. 

I'd advise that you copy the GPT over, and run simply to re-write (and possibly re-locate) the partition table. After this, you can invoke again to handle reshaping your storage - if you need to. 

While answering this question, I was unable to fully explain how signals propagate through a pipeline. Consider the following examples. Using as the first element in the pipeline This causes to bail out having caught the that was delivered to , by , leaving a broken file. 

See the manpage (under the "Shell Builtin Commands" section) for more information on the built-in command. Alternatively run from within for more direct access to the help text. 

This significantly reduces the required precision, and in my opinion makes it much easier and faster to use the mouse for such purposes. 

Two routers connected with a serial cable are just that - two routers connected with a serial cable. Until you tell us about the physical layout of your hypothetical network, we can't use terms like LAN / WAN / etc... 

If you're lucky, and all the wires are "functional", then you can easily figure out where the runs go with just a computer and a switch. By "functional", I'm meaning that an Ethernet connection can be established - blinky "link" LED on the switch, computer reporting a connection. You'll want to make sure that the connection is at the expected speed... If you're using a gigabit switch, and a computer that is capable of a gigabit, then Windows (or should report a 1000Mbps link. If it does not, then this can indicate problems. If the hardware is capable of 1Gbps, but the link is reported as 100Mbps, or appears to keep disconnecting, then you'll need to at least invest in some basic tools, or call in a pro. It looks like you've identified where the runs go, but it would be good to prove out those connections that currently "don't get internet" - don't look for internet connectivity at first, look for Ethernet connectivity. Then for communication with your router or another PC - use and check for packet loss. From your diagram, there should be 5x sockets in the store room. You'll want to put your router in the main hall (close to the "fibre" point), and then use a switch in the store room to connect to the rest of the house. Basic Tools You can easily get your hands on a "Cable Tester" that will test "CAT-5e" or "RJ45"... search eBay, I can get one for £3.70 GBP (free postage)... there's no need to pay more.