Actually they don't do the same. TDE encrypts the data in the database, you need to configure the wallet and have it open before you can see/use the data after that. VPD is an Access Control Mechanism, it allows you to define sub-datasets that will be owned by different users, allowing them to see/use only the data that they actually own (even if the same set of tables are shared among different VPDs) To have more detailed information about each tool, please review the documentation on $URL$ 

Just completing the answer from @kubanczyk, which is very good. When you issue the recover database command, the RDBMS will try a complete recovery, meaning that it will look for the archived logs starting at the SCN (thread and sequence) from the restored backup and apply each archived log until it reaches the "active" redo log of the original database. That's why you're getting that error. So your best bet as @kubanczyk posted is to use recover database until cancel which is an incomplete recovery until the most recent (contiguous) archived log found. That should do the trick. Hope this clarifies the restore/recover process a bit. As for the other part of the question 

I have another open question which at the moment seems to be a bit tricky to answer: phpMyAdmin - Cannot login even when changed password I am hoping someone can still answer it. I think one of the config files or ini files is wrong in some way. So I need to ask this question as a back up. I have a few databases in my present install of Wamp server on Windows 10. Can I reinstall, or do a repair-install, on this Wamp server without overwriting or deleting my databases? 

I thought User should be or something like that. ORIGINAL QUESTION: When I try to log into my phpMyAdmin on localhost:8080 I continually get: 

EDIT: After looking at the info I tried (where abc is my temporary password and mystuff is my database just below root): 

The Rank will only change about once a day. However, the page will likely be viewed maybe 1000 times a day. So instead of getting the database to calculate the rank for each of the 1000 visits, I thought it would be best to just fill the 'Rank' column once. How can I include an UPDATE to fill the Rank column, using my chosen way to rank people. (Note if two people are ranked 5, then the next rank is 7.) 

Due to the bad naming convention on your question, I will use ColumnA as A, ColumnB as B and ColumnDate as Date. I am assuming that you require the first item as it's fetched from storage, no particular order. And you have to know that if the row gets updated it can be migrated from the current block and so, the query result will eventually change. This queries are examples only and you have to edit them to get exactly what you want. You may try the following query: 

Question: Is overwriting the PFILE with the database ON dangerous? Answer: No. The PFILE is read only when the database starts, and that's if no SPFILE is there or if the PFILE argument is passed when invoking the startup command. Otherwise, when you start the database, the SPFILE is read for initial memory values, control files location and such basic information. After that, everything will remain in memory. Note: If you change the PFILE at the OS level, you need to bounce the database to make the changes take effect. On the other hand, using the ALTER SYSTEM SET ... SCOPE=MEMORY may be used as @ibre5041 suggested and achieve the result you want. Nevertheless, you're "losing" those archives from the original location, which makes me think you could as well add the NOLOGGING clause and avoid the generation of the logs that are filling up your storage. So my personal suggestion would be to use the command 

Surely this is possible? It does not like it but does really say why. It says: 'You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near 'FROM (SELECT TestNumber, UserSlot ...' 

But what happens when there two conditions required, namely the joint combo of (TestId, TestSubId)? Ie, what do I do for the IN clause, the ???, in the following to show it has to be in the combos (10,25) and (11,22): 

I have changed the password to 'abc' according to this link: $URL$ I have done exactly what is written here, even using localhost, not localhost:8080 in the things to type. There was a warning at one point, but it does not tell me what. It was at the point (I am version 5.7.9): 

What I need to do is count the number of tests a user is signed into and are not complete. It must include all Tests they have not resigned from. (This is easy). BUT it must also include all the Tests they have resigned from and another User has not taken their place. (This is the tricky bit). Another user will have been deemed to have taken the place of the User in question if they have an entry in TestUsers with the same TestNumber and the same UserSlot (note both), and they either have not resigned themselves (ResignedTimestamp='1970-01-01 00:00:01') or they have resigned but their ResignedTimestamp is later. Here is my SQL. 

In Oracle every result set have an implicit row number that you can use for limiting output. If, by any chance, you're using oracle 12c you can use the brand new feature for top n queries 

So changes are made to blocks kept in the Database Buffer Cache (DBCache). Once commited, the changes are pushed to the Redo Log Buffer (RLB) which is dumped on a regular basis to the Redo Log Files (RLF) and, eventually to the database storage files (DF). Also on a regular basis and not completely unrelated to commit, the checkpoint process dumps the dirty blocks from the DBCache to permanent storage DF. During the checkpoint process the SCN associated with the latest DB block written to storage is written on the DF headers and the control file. That will be from that moment on the latest consistent estate of the database. 

To complete some of the previous answers: A commit will end the current transaction in the current section. It will guarantee the consistency of the data that was "touched" during the transaction. A checkpoint writes all commited changes to disk up to some SCN that willl be kept in the control file and datafile headers. It guarantees the consistency of the database. 

I had been doing the following in two stages in php, but now see that as cumbersome. I was collecting all the 'TestUsers' with the UserId = 25 and returning to the php code which then does a separate call the database and then alters the 'InactiveTestSlotBitwise' in the 'Tests' to show they had removed themselves from the Tests they were in. However, now I think I should be doing something else instead in one call, on the lines: 

The more I learn about about the great things you can do with mysql, the more I keep pushing to learn. I have two tables: Tests 

However, a single row did change. So when I try to log in again it still says when I put in the user id and password . Something has obviously gone wrong, but what? In it has the following (after the password change to abc): 

I am having trouble loggin on to my Wamp phpMyAdmin. Those are other questions on this site at the moment. Is there any way to make a backup of my databases through the MySQL Console? 

We are told to watch out for things being set to null (we dont want) by using the IN clause in the following: 

That will remove the fragmentation and shrink the associated datafiles plus it will set the HWM in the "lowest" possible position. CAUTION: This is a n I/O intensive operation, never do it during business hours or outside a maintenance window for production environments. Another option that can be used is the creation of a "backup as copy" of the fragmented datafiles and then switch the database to point those "image copies". Then drop the original and redo using the image copy as the original and backing them up "as copy" to the original location. It's a little longer and some more complex, but the "downtime" is just a few seconds while the switch is performed. Refer to the Oracle Database 11.2 RMAN Reference Manual for more details on this option. Hope this helps you. If not, please add more detail to the question. Like version of the software, maintenance window time, accepted downtime, etc. 

If there is no backup and no way to restoring the lost datafiles, what you can do is backup any other important datafile/tablespace and recreate the database. I think it will be the less painful way to get a fully working database. 

EDIT 1 As some of the comments point out that the concepts aren't completely clear I will provide some more information here. We have 3 major structures involved in the commit and checkpoint concepts. 

How do I UPDATE Rank in the table within this SQL statement? What do I do in the ????? ORDER BY statement to make sure it orders by Score1 first then when these are equal it orders by Score2 second? 

EDIT: Since posting this I have read some more and some people suggest changing within this file, but I do not seem to have this setting. Is this what is causing this problem? 

EDIT: I have made an edit below, adding more info. Do I have something missing in my file? (And also can someone tell me how to get details of the warning I am encountering below?) EDIT: Also note when I add to wampmanager -> MySQL -> my.ini, I can log in, but do nothing thereafter. (Note: if I go to any other page thereafter it goes to the login screen again where it fails as below.) However, on the right in I have the following: 

The following SELECT with INNER JOINS works, but does not count it right. I have a tests table: Tests 

It gave the following (note I am localhost:8080 and not just localhost - could that make a difference? 

The result counts row (7, 25, 5, 1970-01-01 00:00:01) eight times, and adds to that (8, 25, 2, 2016-04-23 12:00:00) once. So it is giving me an answer of 9 when the answer should just be 1. 

A final piece of advice: Set the db_create_file_dest to point to the ASM DATA disk group and remove the datafile name parameter from your command: alter tablespace CWSC add datafile size 100M AUTOEXTEND ON; As you may know, even if you give a name to the datafile, when it's created on ASM, that name becomes an alias and the real filename is set by the ASM instance itself. I hope this info helps you. 

db_create_file_dest is set and points to ASM (i.e: +DATA): The database will take 'DATA' as an alias and will create ASM file on the destination associated with the 'DATA' alias that will be located at the ASM +DATA root directory. db_create_file_dest is set and points to filesystem: It should be quite obvious that you'll have a new 'DATA' file in the location pointed at the parameter. db_create_file_dest is not set (worst scenario): The database will default to $ORACLE_HOME/dbs and create a datafile there with the name 'DATA'. 

you need to set the search string in ASM. Failing to do so, will result in the gv$asm_diskgroup view to be empty. Tomorrow morning with a clearer head and a desktop to give you exact commands I will edit and extend this answer.