Do you know the Network name of your Netbook? Click START Right Click on My Computer Choose Properties Click the Computer Name tab. If you have My Computer on the desktop of the Netbook, right click on that and choose properties. Same deal. At any rate, from there, make sure that both computers are in the same Workgroup. Note the Full Computer Name of the netbook. Now. Open up Windows Explorer on the desktop. You know... Open My Computer, or what-have-you. In the address bar, type "\ComputerName" without the quotes, and where I typed ComputerName, you type the ACTUAL computer name of your netbook... and hit enter. If you have properly set the netbook up for sharing properly, any and all directories that you have designated for sharing will be listed there. I don't know if you have followed these steps or not. There is no way I can know specifically what you have done, or how much experience you have with XP and such. The Windows Firewall on the Netbook could be on and it might not be set to allow an exception for File and Printer Sharing. So... go into the Control Panel, Open up Windows Firewall, and click the Exceptions tab. See if File and Printer Sharing is there and checked off. It should be, as it is installed AND turned on by default. However, turn off the Windows Firewall and see if you can access files on the Netbook with the Firewall off. If you have any OTHER Firewall installed on the Netbook... like one that comes with McAfee or Norton or AVG or Zone Alarm, that could be the issue as well. 

Ok. Well... This article describes how to do it if you do decide to brave registry diving. But, I can understand your reluctance. SO.... make sure you actually read through that little instructional page. Why? Because after they tell you how to do it yourself, they provide you with a link to a little free program they wrote that will do it all for you. You can download it from that link, and then not have to mess around with the registry. Seriously. Here is a direct link to the program. I still recommend reading through the instructions on how to do it yourself. EDIT The registry edit instructions are relatively simple, and as follows: 

Setting up a computer to provide internet access to another computer via Internet Connection Sharing will work off multiple IP addresses. Hmm... Ok. Internet Connection -> First Computer. That computer gets an IP address from the Internet Connection device and sees the Internet Connection as a Gateway. Now... if you set up ICS (Internet Connection Sharing) to share that internet connection across a second network card (Wireless or wired, doesn't matter) ICS will want to work on a different internal IP range, and set up that first computer as ANOTHER gateway. I'll put it another way. Let's say her laptop is connected via ethernet cable to the internet connection in her apartment. Her laptop gets an IP address of 10.0.0.200. You set up her laptop to share that internet connection across her wireless card. This will require also enabling ICS. ICS will assign the IP address of 192.168.0.1 to the Wireless Card, and make it a Gateway. If you connect your laptop to this new Ad-Hoc network, you will get an IP address on that new range (192.168.0.2 maybe) and your computer will now be seeing 192.168.0.1 as your internet gateway. Some details? The computer that is going to be in the middle has to have two network cards (two wireless, one wireless one wired, two wired) where one is connected to the Internet Source, and the other connects to the other computer. The computer in the middle will not act as an Access Point, just passing out IP addresses in the existing range that is offered by the internet source. It will indeed act like a router, starting a new IP range. 

... on the right track... In my opinion, everything you've said points to the motherboard... and likely physical damage like a loose solder contact. Moving external cables around (especially the onboard VGA), providing a ground contact within the casing, all would point to this. It could also be damaged capacitors (solid, or liquid, even a single capacitor), but I put a low priority on that. You eliminated the power supply by putting another in the unit... I'd still test them both with a tester because it is possible that a bad mobo damaged the PSUs... not trying to scare you, but it also sounded like a bad PSU until you swapped that out... until the next one started doing it too. If you are planning on RMAing the board, I'd grab a magnifying glass, take it out of the case, and examine it everywhere, starting with the back. Start at the VGA connector and examine all the solder contacts and start moving outwards. Check the back, check the front... and check both your PSUs in another computer to make sure they are fine. EDIT I was thinking last night... it's possible that this also could be caused by motherboard standoffs that are too short/too long. I'm not saying it's probable... just possible. Having standoffs that are the wrong height for your case (and believe me, it happens) could cause cards to not seat properly in their slots, which could cause intermittent connection problems, which could cause any minor adjustment to the motherboard (IE moving or even just attaching a cable to an integrated VGA port) to make that connection. Again... it's a stretch. EDIT to EDITS Wow. I would have put the CPU as the issue rather low on the probability scale, since when the system would work, it worked fine. I guess it is possible that an improperly fastened heat sink could have been putting it's weight on the processor, and pulling it away from the socket just enough to disrupt contact... where jiggling wires/creating vibrations from plugging cables in was enough to reconnect contact. You said the thermal paste was quite old... did it appear to be even? I remember an eMachines that had it's heat sink put on at a slight angle, and when we got it into the shop and pulled the heat sink off, you could clearly see that the heat sink hadn't been flush on the processor by the impression in the paste (and the line of dust on the surface of the processor at the edge of the thermal paste UNDER the heat sink). It is definitely possible there is a problem with the processor... likely a physical issue like a damaged pin, since you could make the processor work like it was supposed to with physical solutions. Examine the heat sink more closely and how it mounts into place. Examine the brackets that hold the heat sink in place. Try a different one. 

How does this grab you... make sense? Have the surfboard handle DHCP, and set the range to start at 50 or so. Set the G router to be a bridge, or at least disable DHCP, and connect it to the surfboard via one of the normal ethernet ports (not the Internet port). Assign it an IP that is outside the DHCP range, but on the same subnet (so you can easily get to it to adjust settings, etc). Then, all the computers that connect to the G router, will get an IP address that is in the same range that the server and printer are in. That should work. 

That statement of yours covers a BUTTLOAD of ground. For example, if those other things on the drive were songs and/or movies... they could most CERTAINLY be moved off the main drive. In fact, it would be better for you to do so. Get yourself a portable external hard drive and move all that media off the drive, and onto the external storage. Then see how much space you have freed up. Most likely, what you have left would take up less space than the SSD you want to get. If that was the case, you could THEN use any number of partitioning editing suites out there to shrink your partition to a size that would fit on the SSD, then you could use one of many different cloning programs to copy ALL of your existing partitions onto the SSD. Now... if these other things are actually programs and games that are installed on the drive, then you are out of luck. Why? Because once you put them on a separate drive letter from their original installation... chances are, the program won't work until it is reinstalled. Since you are looking to avoid reinstallation... that wouldn't work. ... Here's the thing. You imply that the SSD is smaller than your existing hard drive. You don't say what model the laptop is, but I doubt it will allow you to have two hard drives in it. So, you would be completely replacing the existing drive with the SSD. So I'm confused. You pull the Windows installation somehow, off the existing drive, put it on the SSD, and then what do you do with the remaining data that is on the old drive? You didn't say you wanted to save it. If you did want to save it, you didn't say how you would access it. You didn't mention that you wanted to put the drive in an external enclosure and turn it into a portable hard drive. I point all of this out for a reason. If you didn't care about all the extraneous data, and you intended to lose it when you switched to the SSD, but that since your existing Windows installation is a precarious one that you can't reproduce you REALLY want to avoid reinstalling it... then your best option is to DELETE the other data on the drive. Uninstall any programs you don't need. Free up the drive space. Then, again, shrink the partition to one that will fit on the SSD, and copy the entire drive onto the SSD. It is important to note that I've been saying copy the entire drive. You did mention that it is an HP. That means Recovery Partition. That means that you already have multiple partitions, and you will probably want them all, should you face catastrophic failure in the future. 

From Notebook Check. Otherwise, that laptop comes with an Intel HD 3000 IGP. Either way, the T520 isn't a gaming laptop. It doesn't matter if it meets the game specifications or not. It wasn't built for the punishment that games deliver. It is a business class laptop that was made to run in that type of environment, under that expected type of load. Why is it overheating? As mentioned in the comments, the cooling channel might need to be cleaned... as in there might be a layer of dust and debris (like dryer lint will look like) between the internal fan and the heat sink. You might also be using the laptop on a soft surface, causing the fan intake to be blocked. For all we know, the original power adapter failed or was broken, and you have replaced it with a less-than-adequate power supply that is providing almost the wattage necessary. There are multiple reasons why your laptop could be overheating, and we just don't know enough about your specific circumstances to be able to say exactly why. However, at the very least, using a business class laptop as a gaming laptop will make it run hotter than normal. 

So, if you insist on trying this now, take it all apart, examine all the components before you attempt to clean them, and use a small spray bottle and a toothbrush to clean the components that were exposed to the spill. 

The end result is that there is active interference in the signal, and the chosen refresh rate will accentuate how you see it. The reason why you don't see it in the BIOS is because of the refresh rate and display resolution of your system at POST. You can't try another monitor, so this must mean you can't replace anything. If you can't replace anything, you are most likely stuck with this issue. That particular monitor is more than 7 years old at the time of this posting, it was not an expensive or quality monitor at the time that it was initially made, and attempting to repair it would probably cost more time and money than it would cost to replace it. 

If you connect directly to the modem/router (the speedtouch 5x6 is both modem and router) and do not have the issue of your connection dropping, then you can safely assume that the modem is not the problem. If your TP-Link router is regularly dropping both wired and wireless connections simultaneously, it could be the DC power supply to the router. The key there is "simultaneously". If at all possible, position the router so you can observe it. When you experience the disconnect, look at the router and see if it is power cycling. Typically, when the DC adapter goes, this power cycling occurs ever minute or two... but there could be longer delays between cycles. It could also be the router itself, as opposed to the power supply. If the router is dropping the wired and wireless connections independently, then it again is most likely the router, but it might not be a hardware issue. It could be a settings issue, or even a DDoS attack hitting the router. So... if you have another router, replace the TP-Link one for a time. Otherwise, watch and see if it power cycles.