This is not exactly what you need but if are in Windows 7 a really good alternative is to change the location of the Libraries. By this method you save Documents, Pictures, etc but not all the profile in the D drive. Last night i created a tool that may be useful for you: Set Libraries. 

For now you can see the activation status of your machines using the graphical Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT) 2.0 and from the tool you can force the inmediate activation towards the KMS Server. 

In the Hyper-V Manager you should not see anything. You should connect to the virtual machine by RDP to see it working. 

Yes. This is true. Ports are to bind and the apps with the network. You cannot have more than 65553 application connected by TCP and 65535 connect by UDP on the same host. Operating Systems tipically dinamycally managed the ports an assign one for each app that connects to the network. If you have two applications listeing on the same port when a network package arrives the computer couldn't know to what app is going to deliver the data. As example if you have Messenger and Skype on the same binded to the same port your messenger message will appear in skype and vice versa :) 

Yes. You are looking for the IANA IPv4 Address Space Registry. The IPv4 Address that are on the Internet are the ones who start of with one of the numbers what are Allocated in that table. 

There migh be an error in the communication from this new switch to the Domain Controller. The icon of public or domain network is managed by the Network Location Awareness (NLA) service. To detect if you are in your domain the NLA service do this two things: 

Why do you want this? Windows doesn't allow to have dots in the computer name. No matter if you are in a domain or on a workgroup. The thing is that where you are in a domain your computer full name is something like: computername.yourdomain.com. Your full, but the computer name continus being computername. This longer name is known as FQDN (Full qualified domain name) or absolute name and is use to specified the computer location in the tree hierarchy of the Domain Name System (DNS). When you are in a workgroup unlike domains DNS does not work for internal resolution, thats why you don't see a FQDN. But have in mind that a PC never has dots in his name. Regards. 

It sounds like you may need to configure the refint overlay, which helps to maintain a directory's referential integrity in situations such as that which you described. There is a page at $URL$ which may be helpful towards setting up this overlay. 

Make sure to chmod the permissions to 0600 on that options file to prevent it from being viewable by anyone except the owner. Then your mysql command would be: 

Actually, your LDAP domain should probably just be , not . This is also known as the base name in format. You might want to do a to reconfigure your OpenLDAP installation accordingly. Then, use as the LDAP URI (don't include the domain on the end), and set Ldapadmin to use as the base. You may also need to specify a bind DN (which looks something like ) and a bind password in order to fully connect to your server. 

If I ping a VPN address from the Smoothwall box, it works. However, when I try to ping a VPN address from any other host on the local 192.168.65.0/24 subnet, I get a "Destination Port Unreachable" result. If I set a route on the local host to send VPN traffic directly to the 192.168.65.160 gateway, that works. It's only when I try to route VPN traffic through the Smoothwall box that it doesn't get through. What's going on? 

This will pick up ONLY sites that actually do have classes that extend the MY_Output class, and it will also give you a count of files within that site that you can expect to change. You can also use the cut utility instead of awk: 

There's no need to dump the password into an actual file. Just echo it with the -n flag to prevent the newline, then read it in from the STDIN file descriptor (/dev/fd/0) as follows: 

Add the following lines to /etc/postfix/main.cf so that Postfix will use the configurations entered above. 

Instead of using a self-signed certificate, would you be open to getting a free SSL certificate from startssl.com? That's what I've been doing for my personal web sites. If that's not an option, you'll want to import either your self-signed certificate or the CA that you used to sign that certificate into your browser and set it to be trusted. The method for doing this is browser-specific. The page at $URL$ has a section called "To Import Self-Signed Certificates into a Web Browser" that explains how to import certificates into several browsers. 

I would recommend Web Platform Installer it is easy to install wordpress on IIS 7. Just few clicks and your wordpress blog is ready. Manually would take time in configuration and everything. 

Can this be issue with name resolution. Can you check with your DNS Server? If that is not allowing to resolve the name and after rebooting your app server it would allow to access. I had same issue when some workstation user complain that they were not able to access application stored in another server, we had done the same by trying to access with server-ip that would worked but not with name so we have checked DNS. We have made change in Application to access another server to using IP address as we have static IP network. Let me know if my suggestion works for you. 

Can you check Ping from local PC? Have you checked with Other PCs in your network? There can be issue with DNS. 

You can try with modifying boot sequence and add secondary plex. You can check following URL if that would help $URL$ 

I would suggest to check GeoTrust True Business ID with Multi Domain which would work perfect for you. Though, it does not provide you to add wild card in SAN Certificate you can add up to 25 domains and they all are protected by single SSL Certificate. You can check it at following URL: $URL$ Gaurav Maniar MCP | MCSE | MCST | MCITP | ITILv3 Certified 

Please create Database on Server. Backup local database and upload .bak file on server. Restore backup using SQL management studio. if you don't have SQL Express Installed on your VPS. You can download and install it from Microsoft Website. Please check following URL : $URL$ 

I would suggest to use A Record instead of Alias. It is my personal experience that A record which is good and reduce the performance issue. You can check following URL for more information. $URL$ Gaurav Maniar MCP | MCSE | MCST | MCITP | ITILv3 Certified 

You can convert Sysiternal tool to convert physical hdd to vhd. You can download it using following URL: $URL$ 

Use IIS Advance Logging option that would be helpful. There are also Options are available to write logs with options available as following: $URL$ $URL$ Gaurav Maniar MCP | MCSE | MCST | MCITP | ITILv3 Certified 

I have a Smoothwall box set up as my main gateway at 192.168.65.1. I also have a Proxmox virtual server at 192.168.65.160 that I use to make outbound VPN connections. Since the Smoothwall box is the default gateway, I want to to set it to route all local 192.168.65.0/24 network traffic bound for VPN destinations (such as the 192.168.1.0/24 subnet) to the 192.168.65.160 address. Smoothwall is configured with /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward set to 1. The routing table is set as follows (eth0 = RED interface): 

You can get a dump of the PHP environment by setting up a page with the following code and pointing your browser to it: 

Add the following line to /etc/postfix/transport. Run "postmap /etc/postfix/transport" after editing is done. This tells Postfix that emails destined for the "robotscript@localhost" address are to be delivered directly on this server, and not relayed elsewhere. 

Rather than group your hosts by function, you could group them by role and have Ansible run a given role on a host only if that host is found in the designated group for that role. 

I've found that specifying "-O maxssf=0" on the ldapsearch command line is necessary in order for GSSAPI AD searches to work properly. The following command works for me to search the AD global catalog via a SSL connection: 

If you set Apache to log via syslog and also use rsyslog to handle logging, you could configure rsyslog to send your logs to a file that's named according to the current date. That would eliminate the need to restart Apache, and you could easily rotate the older log files away. Check the following sites for more info: $URL$ $URL$ 

Your RewriteRule directive is looking for the URL to start with either a forward slash followed by "secure_secrets" or only by "secure_secrets" - you don't mention the "~user" part anywhere. 

Just set up a VirtualHost for my.drupal.com and configure its DocumentRoot to point to the directory in which you've installed Drupal. Then configure an Alias inside that DocumentRoot to point /vislab to the root location of the static content (which is in a separate folder from the Drupal files). Here's a brief example: 

Use the TMPDIR environment variable to tell mysqldump where to put its temporary files, and point it to a writable location.