VirtualBox is an x86 and AMD64/Intel64 virtualization product. I believe there isn't a version that runs on ARM hardware. You may be able to run some versions of Windows on ARM using an emulator such as QEMU, Bochs or DOSBox but I doubt the path will be smooth.. 

As you perhaps know, all "Black and White"/"monochrome" laser printers are exactly that, they cannot really print intermediate colours or shades such as grey. They simulate gray by printing small dots and varying the spacing and arrangement of those dots. This is called dithering or halftoning. From a distance our eyes cannot distinguish the dots and see gray. You can increase the quality of this illusion by tweaking the printer / driver settings but you cannot eliminate it completely. The ML-2850 supports Postscript, it's a long shot but try a Postscript driver (you can add a separate printer entry in addition to the existing one) - The default driver is probably PCL6 or SPL. 

If I was concerned I'd swap a 7k RPM disk for a 10k or 15k RPM disk. If speed was more important than money I'd then swap for SSD, if not - I'd start thinking about partitioning, filesystem types, filesystem optimisation, raw vs cooked etc. 

Wikipedia has a list of lightweight web servers lighttpd seems popular. If by portable you mean executes from a USB Flash drive - you'd have to check. Wikipedia lists several portable HTTP servers including XAMPP and The Uniform Server 

If EVGA won't provide a better solution, return the card as not fit for purpose and buy a different make. 

You probably know this, but if you decrement the month, you have allow for 1 - 1 = 12 and decrement the year and check the day number is in range (not 31st Feb, not 29th Feb unless leap year, allowing for calendar changes at various dates in various locales). It is often better to use a scripting language that has good date-handling modules. 

I wouldn't try to combine results from multiple DNS servers with differing configurations, in the way you suggested. Standard DNS You can do this with normal DNS server software (e.g. BIND). One way involves a lot of work maintaining a list of blocked domains: The suggestion at this site is to edit the config file to include 

Use utf-8 for everything everywhere at all times. Convert anything that isn't utf-8 into utf-8 using or . Make sure all the fonts you use support the scripts you use (i.e. have glyphs for the relevant unicode ranges). 

A solution some people use is to split the MS-Word document into a series of smaller documents at some natural page boundary (chapter, section etc). As an aside, the solution I use is to use a plain text editor to edit the content and something such as Markdown or Pandoc to create final formats such as HTML or MS-Word's DOCX - but you probably have some requirements to use Word. 

Footnote. On MS Windows, but not on Linux, the command outputs the same information as . Including the routing metrics. 

Many browsers try to anticipate which links you will click so they can provide a faster response. What you are observing is probably part of that. 

My main point is that it isn't necessary for you to interactively open lots of terminal windows, you could have one script open lots of dialog boxes itself. 

You could convert the encoding using a program such as iconv - but you'll need to know what encoding was used. It seems to be Windows-1251 according to a random web page found by Google. 

Install location of perl - shouldn't cause any problems. Replace use of grep/find with Perl modules. E.g. File::Find. I've not had any Windows-version issues. What did you have in mind? 

The current version of Samba is 3.5.6. An alpha version of 4.0.0 is available. To share some folders with Windows PC's I would read the Samba examples or the Samba HOWTOs If you prefer a web-based GUI tool, I'd look at the SWAT HOWTOs 

I would try Running Apache as a console application expecting to see console error messages saying that it can't parse the config file (and hence doesn't know where it's errorlogs are to be written) - it should give some reasons that will be helpful I'd also try in a command prompt window (I've no idea if this will work) You may need to tell Apache where the main config file is by using the option e.g. 

Set the game to run at the native resolution of the LCD. The Acer h163hql has a resolution of 1366x768. According to some random page from the intertubes: 

For a large quantity of output, I'd hack a perl script together iteratively. Otherwise hand edit with a good editor. There is unlikely to be an existing automated method of removing control characters from output in a way that reproduces what was displayed on the screen at certain important moments (such as when the host was waiting for that first character of some user input). For example the screen might be blank except for , if you then typed and pressed backspace twelve times (far more than needed), what gets shown on the screen at the end of that depends on what shell was running, what your current settings are (which you might change partway through a session) and probably some other factors too. The above applies to any automated method of continuously capturing input and output. The main alternative is taking "screen shots" or cutting and pasting the screen at appropriate times during the session (which is what I do for user guides, notes for a day-log, etc). 

for the command, disk IO is likely to be a much more significant bottleneck than CPU time. compare your 

Are you sure the PATTERN in can be a comma-separated list? I'd try splitting it into multiple options 

Look for a "dynamic DNS" service. There are several. Note that domestic ADSL is assymetric and optimised for client usage not server usage. Your ISP terms and conditions may prohibit hosting a server. 

The IEEE has assigned AC-DE-48 to “PRIVATE”. They use that as an example value in some of their documents. 

Check fonts specified in Chrome: Spanner, Options, Under Bonnet, Customise fonts, ... The page you show has rather complicated HTML and CSS but I believe it is specifying If this were the problem (e.g. if you had Helvetica Neue installed where I don't) I would expect it to affect other browsers on the same PC. I don't see the same issue with Chrome. 

Your image's shadow has an anti-aliased edge using colours like #FF96FF which probably needs to be merged into the transparent background or into the shadow. You can use the option 

Server needs to know there are two routers (not just one default). Server needs to know what places each router leads to. The server on 192.168.1.x needs to know that traffic for 192.168.0.x has to be directed to 192.168.1.2 (not to 192.168.1.1) - That is achieved by specifying a specific and separate route. These routers are configurable, if your IP topology doesn't match my diagram, this answer won't apply. 

You can't actually encrypt a file without either using a tool (like the ones you mention), writing your own or doing it by hand (with paper and pencil). Strong Crypto by hand: Solitare (Pontifex) An interesting way to start understanding cryptography is to get a deck of playing cards and use Bruce Schneier's "Solitare" encryption method as used in Neal Stevenson in his book Cryptonomicon. Other online resources A good free book that starts with the Caesar Cipher is ftp://ftp.pgpi.org/pub/pgp/6.5/docs/english/IntroToCrypto.pdf More fun stuff to try the Caesar Cipher $URL$ A rather mathematical approach to the subject $URL$ Books Some great books: 

I can't check but I think something like net use or maybe net session. One of those net commands anyway.