I'm using Windows 7 x64. OneDrive is not syncing. I drag files to the OneDrive folder (it shows up in FileExplorer with a blue cloud icon) but the files do not show up in the web UI when I open it on a different computer. I no longer have a OneDrive icon in the system tray, so this troubleshooting page doesn't help since it bases the help on the color of the icon in the system tray. I wonder if by installing Office 2016 a while ago, my previous OneDrive install got clobbered. How would I reinstall the OneDrive desktop app for Windows 7 x64 without losing everything that has been copied up to the cloud? 

With the personal edition version that is installed on my Windows 7 computer, when dragging a file from the file system to a Dropbox folder in the web browser, a file already in the Dropbox folder with the same name gets overwritten. Is there a setting somewhere that will cause the Dropbox web-client to append or etc. to the filename, so that the original file can be retained, or that will present a dialog which gives the user a choice how to handle the situation: 

I am trying to import data exported in Excel 4 format from a legacy Access database. Excel 2016 refuses to Save it. In file settings, I don't see how to tell Excel to allow it. Note: I cannot export the legacy Access database as CSV, as some of the notes fields contain CRLF pairs. 

The autohide feature on my Windows 7x64 stopped working on my home computer. I've tried moving it around top, left, right, bottom, unsetting and resetting the feature, but no luck. I remoted in to my office computer, also Windows 7x64, and the same thing is happening there. 

When encrypting a PDF in Adobe Acrobat Pro XI, there's a message to the effect that some third-party programs which read PDFs may ignore the encryption password and open the PDF for viewing. Is Adobe PDF encryption really no more than a sign on a door that reads 

I haven't used Sketchup but will learn it if it can do the following. I have a flat piece of sheet metal tilted at 28 degrees (imagine it lying on the slope of a roof). A cylinder with a 100mm diameter needs to pass, perfectly plumb, through the tilted sheet. So the hole in the sheet must be elliptical. Can that hole be created in Sketchup and printed out actual size, to use as a cutting template? 

I have a Microsoft OneDrive on my Windows 7 desktop. I can copy files to it. How do I determine the web-account-name associated with this folder, so I can log in to the web interface and see these files in the cloud? 

I'm trying to set up alternating row styling on a selection. I click on the first row and drag down to row 145 (where data ends). Then I go into Conditional Formatting, choose new rule, and am trying to enter this formula: 

Is it possible to add an item to the context-menu displayed when an icon pinned to the taskbar is right-clicked? Sometimes I'd like to "Run as Administrator". 

When you go to save a legacy Excel 4 format in Excel 2016, Excel won't let you. But you can go in to the File Block Settings. There you will see a three-column list, but there won't be a checkbox to enable Save for Excel 4. 

Windows 7 x64. ASUS P8H67-I. Intel video. I've tried five different wireless mice, three from Microsoft (two USB dongle, the other Bluetooth) and two wireless from Logitech (both dongle). I've reinstalled all USB drivers and Bluetooth drivers and have installed the latest Intel 64-bit video drivers. With a two monitor setup, there is truly horrible mouse-lag, the left monitor worse than the right. It is like trying to point at a single letter or number on a blackboard using a slender tree branch that is 15-foot long and very flexible. You just can't aim it accurately and it has "whip" which causes the tip to wander and overshoot the mark. It isn't just slowness. A wired mouse does not have the problem. Putting the mouse very close to the dongle has no beneficial effect. It's not a distance issue. Fresh batteries. Putting the dongle in a different USB port has no beneficial effect. Sometimes turning off the mouse for a few seconds and turning it back on will give me a few minutes of acceptable use. But it quickly deteriorates. 

I have not personally done this myself, but it looks like knetstat may be able to help you. It is not readily-available, but unfortunately I am not sure there is such a way. 

I would recommend using your battery at least a few times a week, and recharging it afterward, even if it is only for a short time. Apple's recommendation would be to charge and discharge your battery at least one time per month. I wouldn't go below 20% discharge for the best battery life. Apple also recommends that if you're storing your Macbook for an extended period of time, to charge it to only 50%, and powering it off afterward, for the best battery life. $URL$ 

Open Preferences, and navigate to General->Editors->Text Editors->Annotations. Select Occurrences, and change the color to whatever you like.. 

I have yet to run MemTest, but will do so when I get the chance. The memory is the same speed as the old, and I used the Crucial scanner to confirm it was a good match. Motherboard is an Asus X99-A. I have also updated the BIOS to the latest version. 

I've been dealing with an issue for at least the past month where around once a day my computer will completely freeze. The first go around, I was pretty skeptical, as there wasn't anything in the event viewer (now I know why), but I thought nothing of it until it happened again. This time, upon rebooting, I ended up booting from one of my other hard drives with another OS on it. I looked at my boot order and noticed that my Windows SSD was no longer listed. I tried reseating both the SATA and power cable connecting to the drive, but had no luck, to which I reseated the SATA cable connecting to the motherboard. This ended up working. I had actually recently took my computer on an extended road trip (not removing the hard drives like I should have) so I figured that it was possible that one of the cables had become lose, so again, I thought nothing of it. Until it happened again, and again, and again. At this point, it seems to be happening every day to every other day. The system is not being moved at all, and I'm 99 percent positive there is 0 reason for the cables to become disconnected, however, the only fix to the problem is to reseat the cables each time. Could this be a faulty SATA/power cable, or is there something wrong with the SSD itself and needs to be replaced? 

For Windows, you will want to run . The number to the far right will be the PID of the process you want to kill. 

I don't believe that there are any configurable settings for the metered connection. Having it enabled will limit or disable some internet activities (e.g Windows Update). It appears that Windows Apps (I presume from the app store) have the ability to limit their internet usage based on this setting too. I don't believe that for you, this will have any real use. If you are trying to prevent going over a set limit, you would be better off using a third party traffic limiter such as NetLimiter. 

After running the Fix It, I was still having issues. However, I decided to look into it a bit more, and it appears that the Fix It was headed in the right direction by changing the TdrDelay, however, increasing it was not enough. I went to HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\GraphicsDrivers and changed the TrdDelay to 0. I have not experienced any of the above issues since changing this. 

I purchased a Crucial 4GBx2 kit and recently installed the two sticks. One stick was detected, while the other was not. I tried reseating and moving the stick, however, the stick was still not detected. I tested the slots using the other new stick, and it worked fine. Next, I booted into Windows just to confirm, and only the additional 4GB was detected (12 GB including my previous 8 GB that was already installed). However, when looking at CPU-Z, it reads that the Memory Size is 16GB. After seeing this, I went back to my BIOS, and looked at the information for each slot. The BIOS actually seems to be detecting the memory in the slot, however, no information is listed for the Manufacturer or Module Size like the other stick.