What you see in ViewPower is not reliable information. These cheap UPS doesn't have reliable internal monitoring of battery status and it is basically based on battery voltage, rather than having the circuit that can test battery capacity via charging and discharging currents and voltage drop delta. To sum up: 

Download Rufus from here. It will allow you to create the UEFI MS_DOS boot USB stick. Then add the Z5WE3207W.exe ( 2,11 BIOS version) to your USB stick 

Until now I have transferred HDDs with installed Windows 8.1 between different hardware platforms many time and without a single problem. Especially it is very smooth when you are exchanging the platform for the same one (Intel for Intel, AMD for AMD), but actually I have not experienced any issues until now whatsoever. It was the era of Windows XP where changing the platform was a matter of luck, but with Windows 8.1 (even with Windows 7) I didn't have any issues... and I'm running my own computer service, meaning that things like this happens daily Until now, I didn't have any issue with Windows 10 as well And I am very grateful to Microsoft for this, as this saved my life (time and money) 

TLS 1.3 is not enabled by default You can enable this on iOS with this provisioning profile You can enable this on MacOS with this command in Terminal 

I'm using safari, and unsure if this works in other browsers, but when I signed up for a storm path account, I see the following URL 

I like this javascript based version of a systems thinking diagramming tool. It takes relationships and calculates the values behind it, then animates a dot along the path. So before I get further, I'll post another link to understanding a system here Question 

This presentation allows me to click "yes" or "no" and takes me to a logical path according to my answers. How do I edit the workflow so I can customize it to my needs $URL$ 

I was watching this video and at the 3:30 mark he discusses ITP addresses or TOR addresses. I understand that TOR is an anonymity network, and the fact he mentions ITP followed by TOR makes me want to understand what network he is referring to and what it can do. What is an ITP address? 

That file you see is named using Globally Unique Identifier (GUID). These are the hex strings grouped and separated by hyphens and typically used to note something as unique. It's made to make it practically impossible for any two to ever be identical across the computers. I know that some programs left such files after installation, but I cannot tell you where they coming from nor whether they can be deleted safely. Usually these are hidden and it is not rare that they have the System File attribute. 

Having a self extracting executable larger than 4GB is on the extreme side, since there's a 4gb limit on Windows executable files like *.exe, *.dll etc. for PE32 and a 64-bit version PE32+ (applies to 32-bit and 64-bit versions). Second, executable file is loaded completely into RAM before execution and even if you are not limited by Windows (but you are), you could be easily limited by the hardware, which is the physical amount of RAM in such a case 

I'm not sure how you will enter the custom logo, but I can help you to make the HP recovery partition visible 

/boot/loader.conf /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf /etc/rc.conf /etc/rc.d/netif wpa_supplicant (which is a part of the former too) 

I'm certain it's a big simplification, so correct me if I'm wrong here. What I Tried I configured /boot/loader.conf with the few basic settings, and I'm most sure that this file is okay. The other 2 were more puzzling. I tried to make a network package in wpa_supplicant.conf. I found the ssid of the router, but the security wasn't so easy. The routers configuration on security is set to "Auto", with no explanation given. Other options are there, but Auto is selected. Another laptop uses WEP to connect (it's Vista, so I don't know how to get any more info than that), but I never configured it to do it. There's a string labled "wireless key" on the bottom of the router which I entered to set it up a new machine on the network (Windows and Macs, so it was simplified). I never had to choose a security type and only learned about them by installing FreeBSD. So perhaps WEP is what "Auto" means, but I can't find any other evidence. wpa_supplicant.conf seemed to never be correctly configured. I always got errors related to it and WPA_supplicant doesn't work. It gave me "Can't disable/enable WPA in the driver" errors and more once when I enabled -d -d. This was when I was trying some suspect configurations in rc.conf though. Usually it does nothing except hijack the shell and print "CTRL-SCAN-EVENT-RESULT" every 10 seconds. I learned how to clone the ath0 device to a wlandev interface (wlan0). ath0 is associated to it and their connection seems to go smoothly. But the wlan0's connection to the network is the problem. I couldn't create this with rc.conf, I do something wrong and get ifconfig: create: bad value errors whenever it's parsed. I did it via the shell instead. What Now? I scanned with wlan0 today: ifconfig wlan0 list scan It shows my router, even my neighbour's router. It was a relief to finally get some feedback. So wlan0 is UP and detects the router, but it is always status: no carrier. It can't associate with it and I can't figure out why. Running /etc/rc.d/netif start returns almost the same result as ifconfig would. It shows lo0 and wlan0, and sometimes ath0. I still not sure what lo0 is doing. So; how do I associate with it? We can assume it's WEP security based on how the other laptop is setup. I'll give every relevant output here. After boot, with a blank rc.conf this is what ifconfig returns: 

i suppose that your laptop bios is UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface). Most likely that the HP_TOOLS EFI is missing form the system. If you formatted/reformatted or replaced your HDD/SSD it could be that there is no efi-partition (HP_Tools) installed. I think that correct error message is: 

This is the 3.5mm audio line in connector. Video signal connections: 2 x HDMI (one 1.3 and one HDCP compliant), 1 x D-SUB Audio: Audio input 3.5mm stereo jack Speakers: 2 x 1.5 W(sinus)/2x2W(music) 

If you're an existing Windows 8 user, updating to 8.1 should be relatively easy, via Windows update. Microsoft also says that existing users with Windows 8 licence cannot clean install 8.1 using that key and will need to reinstall their Windows 8 before moving to 8.1. Otherway, they have to purchase a new key. I'm running the Win 8 Enterprise, and we were able to activate clean Win 8.1 installations with Win 8 key. So I suppose that new key requirement is valid only for OEM and Retail Windows 8.1 

I'm trying to wire up an old college office (with 3 rooms) that has thick cement walls. Running ethernet is painful, and wifi can't break through the concrete. Can I use more than one HomePlug to connect these 3 rooms to the main switch (which would have its own plug) My thought is that the ethernet will broadcast the signal properly and that I don't have to worry about conflicts because the ethernet will handle the collisions appropriately. 

I have a EVGA 1500 Classified and am learning how to build my first high end PC in 12 years. Since the '90s something called Power Supply "Rails" was invented and I think it has something to do with the GPU. What are power supply rails (electrically speaking) and how should I use them intelligently (or not) in a custom build? 

I need my Windows based Outlook users to be able to look up an SMIME certificate from this LDAP directory How can I automatically (via scripting or policy) modify an Outlook profile to include this? 

/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf (I emptied it of everything unnecessary, because I was just causing errors) 

What Happened A few days ago I installed FreeBSD 8from USB to my Macbook (Core Duo, 13"). The first thing I wanted to do was get my GUI back. I'm new to FreeBSD and it's my first time off of mac or windows, so I had some learning to do. I tried to a make clean install of xorg with ports but it returned many "No address record" errors. I realised I hadn't configured network settings and then the fun started. I ran ifconfig and it found 5 devices: msk0, ath0, fwe0, fwip0, lo0. * ath0 was identified as media: IEEE 802.11 Wireless Ethernet autoselect so it was clear which one I needed. From what I gathered, there are 3 files and two processes involved here: 

It finds my router and displays its details. I can feed it my routers details now, using: ifconfig wlan0 key value key value ... They show up in wlan0 when I run ifconfig, but it still doesn't associate. 

Is there any way I can get outlook to remind me X minutes prior to every meeting request, and once right when the meeting/appointment happens. 

Most "servers" permit file level auditing, however this is specific to each server, and specific to each file system. These audit logs may contain the information you're looking for, but if logging hasn't been enabled, then there isn't much you can gain in retrospect. The reason I put "servers" in quotes is because there is a different amount of features available for NTFS clients connecting to a NAS vs a Windows based server. Namely the Linux based variants may contain a different amount of audit granularity than the Windows based file servers. 

My girlfriend is doing peacekeeping work in Rwanda and she has very poor internet access and it's difficult to stay in touch. What technologies or resources are available for non-connected or remote locations? 

Here are an example of some SMTP headers that are used internally (in routing) to configure how exchange behaves: 

What details should I feed it, what exactly is needed? What, if anything, should I have in /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf (and if that psk is needed, is it most likely the string I mentioned above)? If I define the ssid in wpa_supplicant.conf, should I still feed it to wlan0? What process should I then use to associate it? 5 .How should I add these things to rc.conf so it will automatically do this at boot? 

/etc/rc.conf has no network settings, I commented them out because of errors. There was my attempt to clone ath0 and feed it info, but I did if via the shell instead. I've included the output of dmesg as an attachment, in case it's useful. I'd include the boot text (which appears before login) but I don't know how to catch it into a text file. If it's needed and somebody tells me how, I will (actually, even if it's not needed, how can I view it to read?). 

A huge thank you in advance for any help you can give, I've spent hours crawling about the shell and I've learned quite a bit from it (I finally got the hang of vi too, from all that editing). But the sooner this is fixed, the better. *P.S. I was, and still am, wondering where the extra three devices come from (the wireless and wired were all I expected to find). lo0 is up at each boot and /etc/rc.d/netif, I have no idea what it is and can't find it in dmesg. Resources: /etc/loader.conf: Code: 

Every SMIME clear signed message has a red icon located near the Urgent exclamation point as shown below. This is often confused with high priority, and sends the wrong subtle message. IMHO a red SMIME icon should only appear for improperly signed messages, not validly signed ones. What Icon DLL can I edit, or registry setting can I use to change this? Outlook 2013 expanded view 

Exchange has a list of permissions that are assigned to each connector based on the checkbox selection below. 

A partial answer is available here, where it describes an Exchange security feature called the Header Firewall. The header firewall removes sensitive x-headers from messages and prevents abuse. The article describes how they are configured, but stops short of listing all the headers, the meanings of the rights, or the relationship to the checkboxes. That being said, I'll run the following command later to enumerate the various settings for send and receive connectors. 

If the certificate is set up properly from a CA perspective, perhaps the web server or the browser isn't building the chain correctly. Make sure the web server has the root and intermediate certificate installed correctly, and in particular some servers (or load balancers) need to have the chain "linked" using a application specific command. Alternatively, know that each browser IE and Firefox (not sure about Chrome) maintains its own CA trust store. You will have to install the root and perhaps thex CA into that respective store. Another tool that you may want to use to compare certificates is the ASN.1 inspector, available here ( $URL$ )