I too recommend a Wireless survey. This avoids dead spots and other issues. With 2.4Ghz APs, you only have 3 clear channels that do not overlap. 5Ghz isn't so much of a problem. You might be able to get sufficient wireless coverage with 3 APs. Omni-directional antennas transmit like a bagel, Directly above and below aren't the best spot. Maybe two on the lower floor on the ceiling at each end and one on the second floor in the middle. Without a survey it'll be a guess, but we can apply some logic anyway. You can always lay it out and use the freebie Ekahau heat mapper to see what it looks like. I highly recommend isolating your voice traffic from your LAN traffic with a voice VLAN. The SG200 switches are voice aware. A voice aware switch should use QoS to prioritize voice traffic above your other traffic to avoid jitter and lost of frames. Voice traffic uses UDP protocol which isn't reliable (but it's fast). Traffic is dropped if network congestion happens. Some APs can do a Captive Portal mode where they either have a micro webserver or push the client to an external webserver (external from the AP). I advise you use something like this and have an Acceptable Use Policy that they must accept prior to accessing the internet. This limits your liability in the event they do something illegal. Regarding the 2800 AP, it's a thin AP and on Cisco's site you will find a bullet that reads "Cisco Mobility Express and controller based". Cisco Mobility Express can be purchased with some of the more expensive switches (such as a 3650). Look for something like the 300 series. They support Captive Portal as well. Your public network needs to be isolated from your internal traffic so people cannot access your business data. If you use VLAN, it must not have any route to your internal network. I recommend physical isolation so there is no chance of data leakage. Just pull a cable to a router network port (not a switched port but a VLAN or routed port). I also recommend using some kind of guest isolation so public wireless network users are not attempting to penetrate other public users devices. Your wireless LAN can be on the same subnet as your LAN or on a different one. If different, it needs to be routed by your router. If your internal wireless users are going to have full network access, I'd just flatten it out to make it simple. Your Router needs to be able to have virtual sub interfaces for VLAN or have multiple physical interfaces so you can send the guest traffic to the router directly. The Cisco RV215W has "Separate "virtual" networks to limit access to sensitive information" in it's description, so look at a router that has that kind of description. Whatever product you might choose, download and read the manuals to see if they will do what you need. Wireless routers are not really that great. I have a Cisco RV180W at home and I loose a lot. Enough that I want to move it, but that complicates things because I have an AP in the back of the house (for the yard...), a NAS, a wired Blu-ray. Next purchase will be an AP that will be in the living room coat closet...I have it wired already for PoE. Question - what is your phone system? Something hosted? Look at web managed switches and APs such as Meraki - They are pretty cool and if you attend a webinar, you can get a switch and an ap for free. However the cost model is a subscription. If you get a subscription model device, buy with the most years you can get up front as the prices increase over time. It's really a fairly simple network layout. You might need multiple connections to the router for each VLAN if it can't trunk like this: 

You state Netgear switch however what you describe is for L3 routing. If configured correctly the router will respond to an arp request which is broadcast onto the lan segment with the mac address of all FF's but the router will only reply with its own mac-address if the ip it finds encapsulated in the frame is configured on one of its interfaces. If you are still telling your host device to send packets towards a different ip of 192.168.0.1 that effectively doesn't exist then it will not work. 

Whilst I understand that product recommendations are off topic can anyone help by explaining what the critical factors are when looking for SFPs that are going to be compatible with a new service? Is wavelength a defining factor that should be considered/matched or should anything else be used to guide selection? 

If in different networks then pc A will determine if pc B resides on the same subnet or not by doing a binary AND operation that compares its own address and subnet mask with that of the destination address. If not within the same subnet then pc A will send the frame to its default gateway which is the router in this case, which will in turn send it onwards to the destination host if it has a determined path to that address. The router will reply to the arp with the mac address of the gateway. The router will strip off the source mac address and replace it with its own before exiting the egress interface. 

Your question doesn't list any specific IPs so I'm just going to make some assumptions, change them as needed. You can do what you want, DHCP is broadcast only within the local subnet (won't be passed by a router unless you configure specific options to do so). Assuming: SonicWALL: 

If your GSM Wifi Hotspot has an Ethernet port you could connect X1 (WAN) there and it should work; that would be simplest. If NOT then you will need to put W0 (Wireless) into Wireless Bridge Mode: $URL$ However, in both cases, you will need to ensure the correct ports within GSM Wifi hotspot router are open for VPNs: 

The answer will depend on where most of your internal LAN traffic will be going: If most of your LAN traffic is INTERNALLY BOUND (ie, to a local File Server, Terminal Server, Intranet server, etc) then you definitely want to choose 1 switch as your "main/core" switch and connect the SonicWALL's LAN to it, along with the 2nd switch and any other switches. Plug the server(s) into the main switch, along with the most critical workstations. The reason for this is: if most traffic is internal then you don't want to waste the SonicWALL's resources switching those frames from Switch #1 to Switch #2 -- in fact it is probably not as fast as the dedicated switches doing that. If you plugged both switches into the SonicWALL's LAN ports then ALL traffic from Switch #1 to Switch #2 would go through the SonicWALL. If most of your LAN traffic is EXTERNALLY BOUND (ie, to the Internet; eg. you have few internal resources and connect mainly to Cloud Based resources, like Office 365 or various websites) then it may actually make sense to connect both switches separately to the SonicWALL's LAN ports. The reason for this is: if most of your traffic is going out through the SonicWALL then you might as well connect directly to the SonicWALL instead of having one switch pass additional frames from the 2nd switch. Plus if the "main" switch were to fail then the other switch would still be connected. In either case if you have separate subnets/VLANs then I wouldn't change anything -- your Dell X1052 switches are Layer 2 only so any routing of packets from one network/subnet/VLAN to another will require the SonicWALL router to route those packets. It wouldn't matter if you configured one of your LAN ports to be on a different network/subnet (eg. a DMZ) or if you configured an internal interface and trunked 1 or more VLANs through a single port. In both cases the SonicWALL is doing all the routing. [Of course if you have a large/complex network with multiple subnets I would recommend a Layer 3 switch to off load from the SonicWALL. The SonicWALL's job is firewall/UTM/packet inspection and it is not going to be as fast as a switch at either plain old layer 2 switching or layer 3 routing.] 

If AS 6501 is willing be a transit AS then they would be able to route to your /8' however it may also depend on whether you obtained your /8 from the said ISP or not. In terms of good literature then would always highly recommend 'Routing TCP/IP Vol2' by Jeff Doyle & 'Internet Routing Architectures' by Sam Halabi. 

They are only used interchangeably from a perspective of each unique vlan at layer 2 should have its own subnet for addressing at layer 3 giving you separation and ability to manage broadcast traffic etc. In terms of scenarios where you would have a vlan without a subnet then only perhaps if using an 'ip unumbered' setup but there are not too many reasons to want to have to do this. If you review some best practice models like Cisco's composite network model then in terms of keeping individual subnets and your vlans 'local' to switch blocks then you would generally have a separate subnet assigned per vlan. 

The problem is that the peering address range that the 3rd party is using periodically changes and brings down the primary tunnel and a manual switch to the secondary tunnel is being cumbersomely carried out. 

Ron is correct, SonicWALLs will not do DNS Proxy/redirection or act as a DNS forwarder. BUT you can use NAT rules to accomplish the same thing! If you need your SonicWALL to act as a DNS resolver for LAN clients then configure a loopback NAT rule like so: 

If you were testing with a PC connected to the VoIP network (with a 172.21.1.x IP) the Windows route command would be: 

Both in the LAN zone, both in Static IP mode. Connect X2 to the PtP interfaces of your ISP's device (eg. the MPLS). This assumes the link is just a Layer 2 link, no routing is being done by the ISP. You should then be able to use the Diagnostic Ping (or CLI ping) commands from each router to ping the other router's X2 interface (eg. Arlington should be able to ping 10.99.9.2. If things are working then you can create a Routing policy to test: So on the Arlington router: 

Note: when you say "if you bypass the sonic wall speeds through the switch are fine" do you mean that you have configured each computer with a public static IP (because bypassing the SonicWALL means no DHCP and no NAT from the router and many ISPs only provide 1 or 2 public addresses via DHCP).