It is possible to announce a prefix in BGP to the same provider from different locations and it would work. This should be coordinated in advance with the ISP in order to accept the same prefixes from 2 locations and to manage the Inbound routing policies. 

One of the most important thing for Multicast protocol is RPF (Reverse Path Forwarding) - this is the feature which would check and make sure that for a coming multicast packet (sent by a multicast source) there is only one route pointing back to the source and this is route is the best, which means that if a router receives a multicast packet from the same source via different interfaces then this router must use only one interface to accept the traffic from, otherwise the multicast packet received from one interface could be forwarded through another and vice versa, thus creating potential loops and increase of bandwidth usage. Taking into consideration RPF feature, the standard BGP protocol doesn’t have the ability to perform RPF checking due to its limitations, while MBGP is an extended protocol which besides previously mentioned AFI and SAFI values has the same standard routing table as BGP: – Unicast RIB (U-RIB) • This RIB contains the unicast prefixes that was previously used by BGP for IPv4 unicast traffic forwarding. And an additional routing table: – Multicast RIB (M-RIB) • This new RIB contains the same type of unicast prefixes contained in the URIB except that the prefixes stored in the M-RIB are used to RPF check arriving multicast traffic. Therefore this new Multicast RIB can make the multicast protocol working, while standard BGP can’t. We hope this does make sense and has been useful. 

I have a star topology consisting of 12 switches. Recently, we began running low on available IP addresses (192.168.100.0/24) and I was asked to open up a new scope (192.168.50.0/24) on the DHCP server. The scope has been created, I tied it to the same VLAN 50 on all switches, tagged and untagged the appropriate ports and everything seemed to be fine. The clients correctly grab their IP address from the newly designated scope, and they have full network access. The problem we are seeing is that when a host tries to communicate with a host on the other VLAN, there is anywhere between 0-10% packet loss. If I run a constant ping across the VLANs and it isn't dropping any packets, I will get 3-4ms per attempt and then a 30-40ms packet every 15-20. Any host that communicates with its own VLAN is flawless. The switches are mostly HP Procurve 1920-24G, with a couple of 1910-24G models that haven't been replaced yet. I have checked on multiple occasions to make sure that there isn't a loop in the network, because the switch logs all seem to show ports intermittently changing their status to DOWN and back to UP right away over a period of a few seconds. Sometimes this will happen every 90 minutes or so, and the port is not always the same. It just seems quite strange that there are only issues when the communication crosses over to the other VLAN. I can upload any configs or output, if needed. 

MBGP or Multiprotocol BGP extensions The first BGP specification was published in 1989, well before IPv6 was created and only shortly after multicast was added to IPv4. Even BGP-4 doesn’t support IPv6, multicast or VPNs. Until 1998, that is, when RFC 2283 introduced the multiprotocol extensions. These allow BGP to handle routing information for arbitrary "address families". In practice, an address family is associated with a specific network layer protocol, such as IPv4, IPv6, IPX or AppleTalk. There are also Address Family Identifier (AFI) numbers for tunneling mechanisms such as VPNs and MPLS. A Subsequent Address Family Identifier (SAFI) further specifies unicast versus multicast or more tunneling options. When routers make a BGP connection, they exchange the AFIs and SAFIs they’re prepared to exchange routing information for. If the two routers agree on those, they’ll send UPDATE messages containing the regular path attributes with the prefixes (also known as Network Layer Reachability Information, NLRI) and next hops encoded in an MP_REACH_NLRI attribute. Withdrawn routes are encoded in an MP_UNREACH_NLRI attribute. 

The order means nothing. It's just the way the data was retrieved from internal structures or (may be) sorted to be smoother. 

So here's the issue I am having. I have a bunch of HP Procurve 2920s. Inter vlan routing is being done by a single firewall. Vlan 10 - 10.10.10.0/25 Vlan 20 - 10.10.20.0/25 Gateway for each 10.1 and 20.1 Vlan 10 interface on switch = 10.5 PC1 on Vlan 10 = 10.100 PC2 on Vlan 20 = 20.100 Interface from switch to firewall is Tagged for vlan 10 and 20. So first test for intervlan routing works. PC1 on vlan 10 can communicate with PC2 on vlan 20. (10.100 <--> 20.100) PC1 switch interface is untagged vlan 10 PC2 switch interface is untagged vlan 20 So again intervlan routing via the L3 firewall is working. However where it breaks down is PC's on vlan 20 cannot talk to the actual switch IPs. (20.100 <-!-> 10.5) does not work. I assume this has to do something the way the HP is handling these incoming packets on the tagged interfaces. I'm hoping there is a procurve expert around here that can help. I need other vlans to be able to access the switches in the mgmt vlan. I have also tried both setting vlan 10 as "primary-vlan" and turned off "primary-vlan" Sorry took so long to post code, I had to get some internet. 

I work at a school district that has about 1000 students that is split into two buildings. In our junior high/high school building, we have about 300 student laptops with about 25 teachers that each have a laptop and most also have a desktop with a wireless connection. Our elementary building has about 200 student laptops and another 20 teacher laptops. Here is our problem. All year we have had a seemingly sporadically slow network. At certain periods of the day, things become very bogged down, people begin losing their connections often...it's a nightmare. We started with a Ubiquiti Unifi wireless system with full building coverage in both buildings and netgear GS748TPS, 748TP, and 724TPS switches. The entire wireless system is built on a cat 6 infrastructure. If a teacher laptop is connected to an access point, everything is fine. When a jr high or high school student connects to an access point and tries to do anything over the network (pulling files from the file server, udp desktop monitoring traffic) except for http access, ping times for everybody on that access point, including teachers, skyrockets into the thousands. In the elementary building, there is not a single problem with any connections or ping times. If I ping from the high school to a laptop in the elementary school 8 miles away, I get an average of 1ms ping times. We have tried removing any software that could create an issue, we have tried removing all startup programs, we have replaced access points to see if it was a bad access point, we have replaced the POE adapters, we have replaced the ends on the cable runs, we have tried reverting everything from the netgear switches to our old HP Procurve 2810-48g switches and removing the netgears entirely, we have tried removing the Unifi access points and putting our HP Procurve wireless system back into production, we have tried any version of the wireless driver driver for that particular laptop that we can find. None of these issues happened at all last year, but it has been non stop this year and it is severely detrimental to any classroom activities. We also have standardized testing coming up. I am pretty much at a loss as to what else could possibly be causing the problem and am very open to any and all suggestions and recommendations. Please let me know if there are any resources that would help out. 

If I understand correctly (as it is not clearly elaborated) the problem that you are encountering is related to how the routes are prioritized for the same prefixes learned through both providers ISPA and ISPB, for some reason when traffic leaving your network hits router B it doesn't go via ISPB link, but it goes via tunnel --> router A --> ISPA link, even though router B also has the routes for the same destinations received from ISPB provider. In case you want to change this behavior and you look forward to use the directly provider connected to that router once the traffic reaches it then you have to tune up or remove the Local Preference configured for iBGP session between Router A and B, as Local Preference is the parameter that can prioritize the order on how a BGP decision will be processed, for more details please refer to this link $URL$ In addition, as it was already explained previously by Ron Maupin user, the AS_PATH prepending or changing of the metric (MED) doesn't affect iBGP behavior, these attributes change only eBGP behavior and will allow you to define the policy for the incoming traffic not for outbound traffic, which means you can define the policy on how your prefixes associated to your ASN should be advertised to the entire world. 

I have a Force10 S25 switch in each of my two buildings. One building uses VLAN 200 to work with 10.2.0.0 /16 traffic, the other building uses VLAN 400 for 10.4.0.0 /16 traffic. Our wireless guest network in the VLAN 200 building is segmented off onto VLAN 20 on the network 172.16.20.0 /23. I am trying to add this VLAN to the Force10 switches in order to allow VLAN 20 to pass guest network traffic from the VLAN 400 building as well, since our ISP connection is located in the VLAN 200 building. I have been given a lot of conflicting information between tagged and untagged functions of the VLANs. Force10 told me to set all ports that are NOT trunk ports to untagged, and trunk ports to tagged. ProCurves, however, are the opposite, as well as Netgear switches. Having the ports set as untagged for the host connections and tagged for the trunk ports works, but should I switch that setup? Or is Force10 just backwards? As far as the Guest VLAN goes, if I go to tag the host ports necessary, I get a "Tagged flag mis-matched gig 0/23" message. If I try to untag the ports, it tells me it is already untagged on another VLAN, which makes sense. I also read that the port needs to be in hybrid mode in order to tag multiple VLANs on it. If I try to put a host port in hybrid mode, it says it can't because it is a layer 2 port. If I try to put a trunk port in hybrid mode, it says it can't because it is a layer 3 port. That leaves no port mode available to enter hybrid mode. Is my current setup truly backwards? And if so, is it causing the issues with trying to tag multiple VLANs on a port and preventing me from entering hybrid mode on any other ports? 

I have a pair of Cisco ASA 5585 firewalls in my network. I need to make some network changes on my network however we can have very little to no impact/downtime. I want to be able to make changes on the standby and then failover to that standby so the network will use those changes. However once that standby becomes the Active, I want to prevent it from syncing the config to the new standby(The previous active) In order to be able to fail right back over to the old config if the new does not work. Is there any way to configure the failover to not sync changes? Thanks 

I am a little confused with the bandwidth setting on Tunnel interfaces between two Cisco devices. On each end I have Cisco routers with ten gig interfaces connected to my provider. I Have a tunnel connecting two sites together. However the bandwidth statements don't seem to add up. My Tx/Rx look like they are maxed out. However the traffic on the input/output counters do not reflect the same as the bandwidth should be allowing. Am I really choking out in the tunnel and not using my full interface bandwidth? Router 1 

The most recent update on my question was, indeed, the solution. It seems we had a few bad installs of LAN School on some (maybe all) of the laptops, and as soon as we updated it to the newest released version the problem disappeared entirely. Any time we see ICMPv6 traffic, sure enough, there is another laptop without the most up to date version of the software. Immediately upon updating it to the newest version, the ICMPv6 packets disappear again and we end up back to 0 ICMPv6 packets. @RickyBeam Another update. The issue went away for a while, then just came back again yesterday afternoon. After more testing, it is a UBNT issue. We are putting our old HP Procurve wireless back in tonight. It remedies the problem entirely. This is the second time we have had to remove the Unifi product from our network. 

We are in our second week of school, now, and starting yesterday we started receiving complaints about slow wireless internet. After some investigating, we found out that our entire wireless network is being sapped with ICMPv6 neighbor solicitation packets. I captured a wireshark packet captures for 1 minute on multiple occasions, and it is pretty clear that this traffic is the culprit. During times where wireless is running flawlessly, about 1-2% of the total traffic is ICMPv6. When the wireless is bogged down, ICMPv6 accounts for 40-65% of the network traffic. I'm running out of ideas as to how I can fix this. It looks like an IPv6 denial of service from inside. I can't pinpoint it to a single machine, as there are multiple IPv6 source and destination addresses, along with multiple source and destination MACs. I have posted both a good and a bad sample of the traffic at $URL$ We thought we had this fixed after about 11:00 AM this morning, when we found an access point that was causing the issues. We replaced the AP with a new one and everything was fine for three hours until now. Our wireless system is Unifi, by the way. 98% of our laptops are using Realtek 8188CE wireless NICs, and the other 2% are using a Centrino 7000 series NIC, not sure on the exact model. I forgot to mention two things at the initial time of posting. 1) I have two buildings, only one of them is experiencing the problem. The networking equipment is identical between the buildings, and the only thing that is different is concurrent users (only about 70 less than the failing building), and laptop hardware, but the wireless cards are still the same except the working building is 100% Realtek 8188CE. 2) It will work during certain periods of the school day, then it will shut down for entire periods, which we thought pointed to malicious user activity, but any time we thought we were able to pinpoint it, the flood would start again. UPDATE AS OF 8/28/14 11:14 AM It currently appears that a piece of software installed, LAN School, used to monitor the activity of students, may have been the issue. We updated the version of this on every machine at the problematic building, and icmpv6 traffic has since maxed out at .5% and is often at 0%. I'm going to give it another day's time to verify, but it appears to be fixed.