I've had this problem in the past with the Opera browser. and maybe with other programs too. It's rare. You just kill the funny process, and start it. I'm sure it has happened to many people and doesn't bother them. It's like asking why a program crashes.. it crashed.. dealing with it is what one can do about it. One of the instances crashed. So it comes under the category of just a crash. But this has the added thing that a new instance won't start unless the old one is killed. Sometimes i've thought it RAM related.. 'cos I think I may have had situations where a program won't start until I end task a different one. But this is probably not the case here, especially since wmplayer is probably small relative to the available ram you probably have. I'd be interested to know the cause of that. Maybe a windows programmer might know what is going on. So could be made into more of a stackoverflow question. Usually with crashes though, you don't know unless you are can see the code and what's happening in it. Not something anybody other than microsoft can do with windows media player. But since the not being able to start another instance is a problem i've seen in other programs , maybe this is a type of crash that programmers may know a little about. though I doubt it'll be much use to you. You've figured out how to deal with the crash. 

The type of program you speak of is called a packet sniffer. Wireshark(formerly known as Ethereal) is free and will do it. 

Monitoring the installation file, with Process Monitor, shows similar to saving it to another directory. The default is it looks like the only files it installs, it installs to specifying another directory seems to give an error. But either way, you see these files.. 

I think all you can do is change PSU or change MBRD. Changing PSU is easier. If you change PSU and have the same problem, then, you could try yet another PSU, if still the same problem then say it looks like the motherboard and then either get another motherboard or give up on the motherboard and keep anything worthwhile from the computer. You cannot troubleshoot if you don't have duplicate parts.. if not MBRD, then everything else. In your case you need other PSUs to test the motherboard with, otherwise you can't really troubleshoot it (unless you get lucky somehow). 

I have this word document one could produce it manually, or download it from $URL$ with firefox(chrome blocks that site for no good reason). Or you can download it from here 

well, there are internal ones and external ones, and loads of internal drives plug into a motherboard thus communicate through a communication port. 

Jozef has suggested something which I think might essentially be the breakthrough. Doing and with /s. Comparing that with .abc shows differences. UPDATE I will merge this into jozef's answer.. but here temporarily as a record. 

How can I display and remove all chars > ascii code 127 from a file? file is unicode 16bit UPDATE Dennis has solved it but there is some interesting discussion about number ranges. 

The following is nothing to do with where the mouse is when the command is issued, as that should be irrelevant. As the command specifies what to close. I would like to have a command that will close particular windows. For example. For the command prompt, no problem, I know. windows For charmap.exe ditto. Now for closing the windows of another taskbar icon, from the command line..i've provided a screenshot of the windows i'd like to close. Is there a command that would do it? Any time I see those there, so maybe a unique hex id would only work that one time, and if it were window titles that's ok and better but not ideal because really I want to close windows associated with particular taskbar icons. 

That is a very interesting hard drive, to have both a SATA power connector and a Molex style connector that PATA hard drives have. But your question is like asking how do you contact somebody when they have two different email addresses? Try one or try the other. In this case i'd suggest perhaps not to try both (If you find that each don't work alone, then you're better off taking your drive to a data recovery place) What if you power it up with either PATA or SATA? You could try powering it with the PATA power and the SATA data. Or with the SATA power and SATA data. i.e. you make sure it's got power and that the data is connected. 

Do not worry at all about editting boot.ini and messing it up. You are welcome to mess it up. You can always restore it by booting off a windows xp cd, into the recovery console, and do BOOTCFG /REBUILD. It's one of 3 similar useful commands that are related to booting - the other 2 being FIXMBR and FIXBOOT. 

if you were to mod a case you'd be better off modding the mac G3 B&W or G4 one, which is what some people have done, and is the case you want. Though even the Mac one is mATX rather than ATX so smaller than ATX, less room on the board for cards. But at least that's still a standard, which is preferable to the Dell. I see many links of people modding the G4 case, articles dated 2009, even 2012. Though the computer was sold 1999-2004. It is clearly a much loved case design. And the best 'name' for it, for googling it, is the Powermac G4 case. or the model that brought it into being(which you pictured), the Powermac G3 B&W. Added Incorporating some comments. The OP found the Sigma Unicorn case, It is an ATX. case pictured below, from this hardwaresecrets review. You see it open with motherboard showing on the open door that (as described in this tomshardware review) hinges downwards. 

Nikao doesn't seem to be up anymore. Scrolling down to the bottom of the Nicao site it says "Tradex Information Technology Inc" but they don't seem to be around either. Googling i've done hasn't picked up anything since, other than people modding or trying to get one. There is the Dell optiplex GX280 case some have mentioned, that has some merits, but not like that G3 B&W / G4 case. The GX280 opens like a shark mouth minus the teeth i.e. it has to be pryed open(or let the weight of the case pry it open as you push the buttons on the side and lift the 'door' up a bit). Not like a thin door. And the door doesn't open downwards with the case upwards, you have to turn it on its side and the door opens upwards. And the motherboard is not on the door of the case. It's screwed into the base. But it has its merits, it's a good design, relatively speaking it's very convenient to operate on. But you'll have issues modding that case. A google shows the power supply is a very funny/non-standard shape. So, knowing of that case isn't that helpful. It has variations but GX280s I see seem to be small sized too. 

I tried copying to c:\ab, and I tried copying that exe (MFTRCRD64.exe) to c:\ab. (calc.exe of course by MS), has no issue. Any program I write and compile has no issue. But this program pops up a message. Loads of programs I get written by others don't pop up the message. For some reason this one pops up this message. There are no streams attached to the EXE so I can't see what is causing it. I know win XP used to pop some security thing up and you could delete a zone identifier stream associated with the file and it was fine. But this is different, it's the UAC giving the message(of course, win7 has UAC win xp doesn't). But for almost any executable I get from anywhere, I don't get this UAC message. But I do for this MFTRCRD64.EXE file. So it must be something about how the file was produced, and I wonder if I can change it. 

some win7 'painting' problems can be solved by changing the theme and then changing it back, and there is a pretty good chance doing that will solve it the quickest way. 

I haven't tried this but here is what i've found.. I remember reading, maybe from scott mueller's UGRP book, maybe from david dick's PC support handbook, maybe from some odd article in an old magazine, that you can do a low level format on a hard disk drive with debug. I see a link about it here $URL$ (he says he's hard it should be done on SATA, though if it was my hdd then I'd risk it. another link not specific to SATA, said the worst that can happen is it formats the hard drive) there are some debug scripts mentioned there. I haven't tried them. Here is an MS link on doing a low level format with debug $URL$ One link mentioned that the worst that can happen is you format your hard drive. Another link mentioned From what i've read, the script seems to work on the BIOS of the Hard Disk Controller. (which I think is the green PCB that people change for an identical or one of identical chpiset, when their hard drive doesn't power up). This link mentions it $URL$ and this link looks excellent and provides the following scripts $URL$