I did this on each of the linked tables. Both time, when I tried to execute the query, I got a type mismatch error. Any ways around this? 

I have two programs that rely on some .dll files. (Wikidpad and Microsoft WebMatrix2.) I was using WikidPad for a while without issue. After I installed WebMatrix2 (which uses IIS Express, I guess), I got a bunch of "Bad Image" dialog boxes of the form: 

was added to the path. I deleted this part of the PATH variable, and WikidPad no longer showed the dialog boxes. However, WebMatrix2 no longer worked, for the same reason: Bad Image errors. So one program needs the path to be there, and the other needs it to not be there. How do I fix this? 

Basically expand each column according to what's in the column, and collate the like elements on their own line. (Assume each column is sorted.) I've been doing this manually by playing cut-paste Ginsu chef, but was wondering if there's an automated way? (I have Excel 2007 but will be getting Excel 2010 shortly.) Alternatively, is there another tool better than Excel for this purpose? Thanks for your time. 

The specs page for ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4600 series says that you can use resolutions of upto 1920x1080 with HDMI output. 

Alternatively, you can do it the manual way by following these instructions, which tell you how to modify the ei.cfg file to change the edition. 

If you have access to your cable or DSL modem's web interface (usually through $URL$ or 0.1), you can try looking there. My modem's interface has a Status tab, where it shows the WAN IP address. 

I have an 8 year old computer (Pentium 4 1.6 GHz, 256 MB DDR RAM) which is not turning on (it beeps for 10 seconds and then goes off). Nothing appears on the screen, so I can't get into the BIOS. A computer repair person listened to the beeping pattern and told me that its because the integrated graphics on the motherboard is defective. It's an ASUS P4S333-VM motherboard and the graphics solution is SiS 650. He tried putting in a PCI graphics card expecting that the computer will use that instead and ignore the integrated graphics, but apparently older computers don't switch automatically to the dedicated graphics card; it needs to be changed from the BIOS. But, I can't get inside the BIOS settings as I already said. I am told that the only option now is to replace the motherboard (which is not feasible since it's very old now). So, is there any way to make the computer use the PCI graphics card? IIRC, the motherboard also has an AGP port, but I think that it will also need to be selected from the BIOS? 

and then instead of wrapping of the edge of the two outside monitors you could go up on on and apear on the bottom of the one on the oposite side... Can't see this being any more useful BUT might help you get some ideas for other setups of your own... ;) I personally use 3 24" monitors and a 50" plasma on two PCs to get this affect: 

I have tried before some more advanced methods to remove this loop around affect by staggering [Desktop1] and [Desktop2] like this: 

to make it so you can only cross between the two monitors in one corner but Synergy just prepends there is a monitor there and lets your mouse go into the (Void) below [Desktop2] and that was just even more confusing! LOL The other option you could use to reduce the wrap around affect if it is getting on you nervs is to tell windows the desktop monitors are like this: 

It seems like a really good place to start is to find out what application is using 0x000000006F5AD67D, but I haven't found where to look. I've looked in Task Manager and those give me IDs but not memory addresses. I also checked System Information (msinfo) but physical memory locations don't seem to be in there either. I downloaded and ran a heap memory tool but the running processes didn't coincide with that address. Any other hints / suggestions to see what program is using that memory location? The error message came up more than once with the same memory location in the error, so that seems to be pointing to one app as suspect. 

This seems like a common enough procedure (I'm normalizing a table) that Excel would have this canned. Is there an easy way to do this, or does it get down to writing a macro or VBA? 

BUT as mentioned earlier when you scroll of the right of your Physical right monitor "[Desktop2]" your mouse will appear on the left of "[Desktop1]" which can be confusing! LOL 

Notice how Desktop2 is in two places? The "Desktop2" on the far left is where windows THINKS it is and the one on the right is where you have really put it! How to accomplish this: 1) Setup your monitors physically like this: 

now as user83046 suspected is true you will get a full loop (so you can keep moving the mouse to the right and it will loop around all the monitors.) BUT to do it you will need to edit the config file manually. I think some of the older config editors could do it but the new one is really bad (or to complex for me! ;-)) you didn't mention what OS your using so I will assume Windows on both PCs. First what you want to achieve is closer to this ("<-->" = Synergy's Links. [...] is a monitor): 

Did you even check LG's website for the drivers? Half a minute of google searching gave me this: $URL$ If you have already tried the above driver, maybe you should post any errors you got. 

I have an HP m7560in Desktop which came with an LG DVD burner. As far back as I can remember, it has been having problems in burning discs. It used to take about one and a half hour to burn 4 GB of data on a blank DVD-R. I am using Nero and ImgBurn and I usually select 8x speed for burning. I used to run XP earlier and now I run Windows 7 on it, but I face the problem on both. I have already checked that DMA mode is selected in the IDE controllers' properties. On XP, uninstalling the IDE controllers and DVD drive from the Device Manager, rebooting and letting it install the drivers again fixed the problem for a while, but after a couple reboots, the problem used to come back. On Windows 7, even doing that is not fixing the problem. In fact, in Windows 7, the burning process doesn't even begin. Imgburn gets stuck on the first stage (of writing Lead-In), and it never progresses until I turn off / reset the computer. I checked the disc info after this happened, and the disc still shows empty and ready to be burned on, so it's obvious that it didn't even touch the disc. I have already had the drive replaced once by HP, but it didn't fix the problem. Do you guys have any suggestions? (Note that Windows Updates doesn't give any newer driver for the controllers, or any other components for that matter). 

I'd have four columns: X, your scatter, your linear, and your quadratic. Have X go from 0 to 4 in steps of 0.01 (use fill ... series). Fill the three scatter points in the appropriate place. Then fill the other two columns with your function values for the line segment and the parabola. Adjust the size of the points in the last two so they're a little thinner and look like lines rather than points. 

I upgraded to Windows 10 recently and I'm getting an NBCore.exe exception box that pops up that says: 

I have two tables (each in an Access DB) -- called LinkedTable1 and LinkedTable2 linked to my working Access database. I got them on my computer after downloading them from a SharePoint site (Actions -> Open with Access). In each of LinkedTable1 and LinkedTable2 there's a Memo field that contains a GUID. This GUID links the two tables. I'd like to use these GUIDs in a query, but when I try to JOIN them within Query Design, I get told that I cannot join on Memo fields. I tried creating an expression to convert the field to a Text field: 

3) Then with notepad or your favorite text editor (I use Notepad++) create a new file called Synergy.sgc and make it look like this (I have assumed you have named your laptop "Laptop" and your two screen desktop "Desktop" in Synergy: 

Further info (Everything below here isn't needed for the above solution but might help you get more out of Synergy) 

4) Save the file somewhere easy to find and where it can stay permanently (with an extension of ".sgc"). 5) Now from the server (the PC with the mouse and keyboard) open Synergy. 6) Ensure "Server (share this computer's mouse and keyboard):" is ticked and select "Use existing configuration:" 7) Select the config file you just created (Use the "Browse..." button to make sure you get it correct). 8) Click Start on Synergy on both PCs This should now let you use the monitors like you wanted! 

I remember this happened to me too. I solved it by turning off the scheduler for all time periods and then setting it up again. Uncheck the Enable Scheduler box, check it again, 'color' all the time boxes in white (i.e. Turn off), and then color the time periods you want with green again. 

Simple copy and paste only copies the files, not the boot information stored in the disc. You need to use the Copy DVD feature of a disc burning application to do this. I recommend ImgBurn or CDBurnerXP to perform this task. 

I had read about a similar problem to yours on a forum, and in that case too, it was happening with an incomplete download. From I gathered from that discussion, the media player was picking up deleted video files which were stored in that part of the hard disk sometime in the past. (Since files are not actually deleted from the hard disk until they are overwritten; only the pointer to the data is given up so that the files appear to the operating system as deleted. (this is how data recovery programs work)) I am sure someone more technically able will be able to answer this question more thoroughly.