Create or edit the vhosts.conf in your apache conf.d (or equivalent depending on OS). Use the NameVirtualHost directive to handle the DNS names. 

You could also do this using virtual hosts and setup Apache as a reverse proxy. This is how I have it setup where I work. 

I've recently been moving our instances to EBS instances (CentOS) and still have a bit of confusion on what's happening when I "stop" and instance. I have some of my services with runlevels 345 on but when I start a stopped instance the services don't start. What's actually happening when I issue a stop command to the instance, and how do I get my services to start automatically when I start the instance up again? 

For an internal network, if you don't want to pay for the wildcard cert (or dedicated cert for the server), simply create a self signed certificate. Since it's your company, it shouldn't be too much of an issue for the users to accept the certificate. And depending on how your network works (and your admin friendliness), you might even be able to push it to the users so they won't be bothered. If you're dealing with any sort of sensitive information, you should be doing it over HTTPS. 

You can also add ports to the ProxyPass directive if you don't want your friend to change firewall rules, service setting etc. Or you can even be a reverse proxy for another external IP address too. 

I'm wanting SNI on my CentOS 5.5 dev server and since it looks like I'm out of luck with the current repo versions of openssl and apache, before I go compiling custom RPMs I thought I'd see if I could get it working with gnutls. Anyone know how to do this? According to yum, gnutls is already installed but I don't see it in my apache modules directory. 

We've had a server (CentOS) running in EC2 for a few months. It had been going pretty smoothly until today when we got an alarm that the server was unavailable (HTTP service couldn't be reached). So I tried SSHing into the box but that timed out as well. I logged into the EC2 console and it said the instance was running and there wasn't anything in the system log. One odd thing I noticed is that even though we have an Elastic IP attached to it (which shows in the Elastic IP management area), the instance detail is not showing that there is an EIP associated with the instance. I looked through the message log and the last thing I see around the time we got our alert was the dhclient renewed the lease. I'm guessing there may have been some sort of issue with the networking. How might I check if that was the problem, or if there were any other issues that may have caused our instance to stop responding? 

If you're not using ubuntu or debian you cant just copy and paste this commands but maybe they point you into the right direction. have a nice evening. 

Please check if the scripts and the directory can be read and executed by the webserver· I'm assuming you're using a lamp system. check if the permissions for the directory and scripts are set to r-x for everyone. 

Hm the role management tool only exists on Windows Server 2008. It's the replacement of Add / Remove Windows Components of the Windows Server 2003. Is it possible that you need at least SP2 on your windows server 2003? Or try to install the newest .Net Framework 2.0 Release prior to install the 3.5 release. Maybe you will find some usefull information in the 3.5 Readme: readme 

If I check the Unicenter configutation with chkmib_l the tool throws an exception and creates a small dump file. 

I'm using squirrelmail. It's pretty small and easy to configure. The "best" solution depends on your needs and personal taste ;-) 

I'm not sure if you can use mass vhosts (apache2). i've never done something like this before. $URL$ What exactly do you want to achieve with this solution? 

I think you are using the wrong database driver for your odbc connection. MS SQL 2005 uses the SQL Native Client. Driver=SQL Native Client; UID=username; PWD=password; Server=SERVERNAME; Initial Catalog=DBNAME; You can download the setup here: $URL$ 

After debugging this issue for nearly a week we've installed the newest NIC drivers. Unfortunately this didn't really help either so a Windows Repair from the Windows Server 2003 SP1 installation CD was executed and the Service Pack 2 installed again. And suddenly it works ;-) I'm pretty sure that some dll's were corrupted. 

Is JavaScript allowed in your firefox installation? (Tools->Options...->Content) Did you also try to clear the cache and cookies of your Firefox installation? You can empty it with Ctrl+Shift+Delete. 

You've got a pretty neat setup here ;-) Are the vCPU's used to their max capacity? What are the graphs for the CPU wait, CPU ready and CPU usage telling you? As more vCPU's you add to a VM as more overhead is generated on the host system to manage the vCPU's and map them to the physical one. At some point you wont get more performance out of a VM by simply adding more vCPU's. Did you check if there is a performance issue on the iSCSI SAN? Check the graphs disk read and disk write requests and of course the disk read and write rates and compare them to the ones of the phyiscal cluster member. Maybe some of the values can point you into the right direction. 

A reboot will keep it's settings. If you bring up a new instance then you'll need some way to manage the IP's. A startup script is probably the way to go. Pull the instance metadata and update a config file (perhaps in S3) or DNS entry. You can also use an elastic IP and configure a cname which will resolve to the internal address within the EC2 environment. To do this, assign an elastic IP and note the public DNS string (there's a pattern but it's good to check) and create the cname record with it. The advantage with elastic IP cnames is you don't have to wait for DNS propagation. 

I'm working on getting some servers running in the EC2 environment and I'm noticing some errors with ntpd trying to sync (using CentOS). I was reading on this site and the impression I get is that I don't need to run ntpd since EC2 is Xen and the host takes care of the time for the virtual servers. $URL$ Is this accurate or do I need to figure out how to get around the error I'm having? cap_set_proc() failed to drop root privileges It looks like it involves building a new kernel and other stuff I'd rather not do if I don't have to. 

Are there any ntpd messages in /var/log/messages? As I was dealing with my EC2 NTP issues I noticed that NTP didn't like being too far out of sync and wanted a manual update. Perhaps you're too far out for it to decide it will update for you. 

For the two sites on the same box, it depends on how they're setup. If they're on different ports, define the ports, if they're paths, then you'll need to add the path on the end of the ProxyPass and ProxyPassReverse entries: 

I'm trying to write an install script for my Amazon servers and I'm getting stuck on some environment variable issues. I have a set of scripts to configure things and some of them depend on environment variables that I create in profile.d scripts. I create the profile.d script (or copy it over) and need to use the variables it sets in scripts that run later (without logging out and back in). Is there a way to load these (in a script) so future scripts take advantage of them? In the script after I create the file I tried: source /etc/profile.d/scriptname.sh and . /etc/profile.d/scriptname.sh but it only sets the environment variable for the duration of the currently running script, so any other script that gets run later can't use the values being set. How do I get them to get set for the session instead of the script? I have one master script that calls a series of small scripts to do all the configurations. 

But it would seem to me that I would need to re-run that command if I created a new file, so it doesn't accomplish what I need. I originally was trying this 

Local / Remote chooses whether you're connecting to a local port or a remote port (your own pc or another pc)Dynamic is for a SOCKS proxy See 4.19.2 Port forwarding $URL$ 

Well I brute-forced it somewhat by entirely replacing the original sites-available directory with a symlink to the one I needed. @Zypher - I think I need a2ensite, no? To create a symlink manually to sites-enabled I'd need to give gitolite some kind of privileges, I just added /usr/sbin/a2ensite in visudo instead 

Have you considered setting up Google Apps for your domain?$URL$ It'll guide you through the process and it might be a bit more solid than what you've got. 

Okay I fixed it: The SATA Controller needs to be set to AHCI (this is done in the BIOS). After that was set I was able to see the drives in my virtual machine. Hopefully this might help someone. 

EDIT - since I misunderstood the question... How about timeoutd? $URL$ $URL$ - WLAN Access Point controller software runs on Linux needs to be integrated with FreeRADIUS or OpenRADIUS or some other authentication method.. Also a simple webserver for the splash. Supports various time-out options, logins or no logins, very customizeable. $URL$ I saw this link on their site, looks maybe like a more user-friendly variant.edit - $URL$ this might be the currently supported ChilliSpot 

which creates a symlinked sites-available directory in /etc/sites-available But if I run a2ensite it can't follow that symlink. I know that in order for an apache2 virtualhost to use symlinks, followsymlinks must be enabled. Is there a similar option for the apache2 sites-available config directory? I scanned apache2.conf but I didn't see something obvious. 

During the VMWare install it can see all the drives attached to onboard SATA. Have followed instructions to enable passthrough - enabled VT/d for CPU and motherboard, assigned the PCI card to the Solaris guest, etc. The Solaris guest cannot see any of the drives, if I run the Device Driver Utility it detects both controllers (2 port and 4 port) Intel 82801JI (ICH10 Family). pci-ide is the driver. I don't know how to test functionality beyond that. I can't find any trace of disks with format or in /dev/dsk Not an expert with Solaris, so I am unsure whether this is a Solaris config issue or a VMWare issue. I'd appreciate any expertise someone could offer. 

You need to add specific information for update-rc.d to your script. You'll find an example in /etc/init.d/skeleton 

You can also take a look at the XenServer from Citrix. It's like the ESXi freely available. I don't have much experience with the XenServer and don't now it's unlicensed feature set. I would recommend ESXi because the migration of the VM's from the VMware Server to ESXi should be nearly painless (thanks to VMware Converter). Also you already got the basic knowledge about the VMware envionments (naming conventions etc.) VMware will not discontinue ESXi 4 or change it's pricing (basicly free...). At least not in the near future. The end of life of the Vmware server product line wasn't "silently". You just have to know where to look ;-) $URL$ 

Also try to deactivate NetBIOS and LMHOSTS for your Network Adapter. You can change the settings in the TCP/IP Properties of the used Network Connection, under Advanced -> WINS. 

do you use vmfs3 for he datastores or vmfs2. vmfs2 is supported by esx4.1 but i head that you can get some issues if you try to use a vmfs2 datastore with different esx versions. did you try to restart the mgmt-vmware and the vmware-vpxa services on both esx 4.0 servers and rescan the datastores on each host, not only on the esx4.1? greetings grub 

a co-worker of mine absolutely insists that it's possible to mount a drive in windows server 2003 with two letters instead of one. He's not talking about mounting a drive into an empty ntfs - folder. example: use ab:\ instead of a:. I'm pretty sure that's not possible. I'm working with over 300 windows servers and never noticed that kind of feature. I also cant find any knowledge base or technet article which describes that kind of feature. Please tell me if it's possible or not. If it's possible please refer to the corresponding knowledge base or technet articles from microsoft. Thank you very much. 

I dont have much experience with the MS SQL Express Databases on virtual machines but I think you just ran into the hardware restrictions of the MS SQL Express Edition. I assume that your physical server had 1 cpu with 2 cores. The MS SQL Express 2008 (and I think 2005 also) do support only ONE phyisical cpu but mulitple cores. A VM recognizes each vCPU's as a single CPU and not as an additional core. So the sqlserver.exe process is limited to 1 vCPU. 

I dont have experience with the sqlmaint.exe. especially on a windows server 2008. Install the newest MS SQL 2005 patches and try to run the command again. May be this helps. Do you want to run the backup job regularly? You can create a maintenance plan with the sql management studio. In the Maintenance plan you can create a cleanup job which deletes the old backups. the maintenance plans are a very good and stable way to create backups of your ms sql 2005 db's. You also should set more restrictive access to the network share. else everyone can create a new database from your backups or just delete them for fun. You could also take a look at the tool forfiles.exe. With this tool it's possible to search for files which meets some specified criteria and delete them (or do whatever you want). Have a nice day.