Designing Home Wiring with Boxes for a PLC is something an Electrician would understand and be able to do the work for you, perhaps even assist you in planning/designing. 

Before: After: You can choose to use the default provided resize script by including the package in your base image, or, you may choose to create your own script to package with your image, using the same approach to do whatever other first-boot configuration you wish. 

Continue to use fork, but use a more robust mechanism to guarantee that the external process has concluded. 

This seems to be an HDMI hardware problem so I would approach is as an IT issue, and there are few things to persue. Power supply is red herring (IMO until any further facts are given) Easy Things To Check: 

Messing with SPI/I2C extenders for those distances is going to be an unreliable monster. Instead Consider the Following alternatives. Kelvin Sensing Using basic 4-wire (Kelvin) sensing you should be able to reliably measure a 0.01V in a 5V FullScale (1 Part per 500 aka ~9 Bits) with a remote differential ADC. This is likely sufficient for your application. The principle is that there is no current flowing on the wires going to the ADC's, no current = no voltage drop in the cable = no effect from the cable impedance. This is a reasonable assumption for cable impedances and slow signals (~1KHz) with software averaging. 

You are still using software shutdown (which can crash) to turn your machine off. Since the power is never interrupted, any external peripherals will not be reset. Sometimes, this can cause problems, for example if an external device continues to issue hardware interrupts through the shutdown process 

You are running out of memory and being hit by the OOM Killer in an attempt to stop your system crashing. The OOM Killer is a bit random, but is weighted by the amount of memory a process uses so if you see a lot of nginx worker processes being killed then they are likely responsible for the memory usage. You can use tools like , or (slightly nicer version of top) to see how much memory you are using and which applications are using most of it to help give you an idea of where the problems might be and if the changes you make are actually helping. Given that it is the nginx worker processes that are being killed how many do you have? I think by default it is the number of cores you have but it can be configured. Since the workers have their own memory pool the more works you have the more memory you will use. If you are using php-fpm you might want to look at the number of worker that uses as well as they share the same problem as the nginx workers. Raspberry pi images also don't come with swap space (but can be configured to have some) which can give you more effective memory before the OOM Killer kicks in. Swap space would be most useful if you occasionally spike in memory usage or have a lot of generally unused memory, otherwise it tends to hamper performance and can reduce the life of your sd card. 

The usb on the raspberry pi is not connected to the main cpu, it is connected to a usb hub. USB hubs are slave devices to the main cpu and cannot reverse this behaviour. OTG is basically a direct connection to the cpu which can act as either a master or slave device. USB is a high speed protocol, it requires specific hardware to meet the required timings involved. This hardware is used by the usb HUB and not exposed over the GPIO pins. If you are allowed extra hardware you can use a microcontroller that can act as a usb slave device and connect it to the pi over serial, i2c or spi. Some possible boards you can use for this are the arduino leonardo (or any based off the atmega32u4 chip set) or the teensy. Depending on what you want to achieve the programming of these might be simple to very advanced depending on if there already exists a library that does what you want. If it is a simple dumb connection you need you can use a usb to UART adaptor. If you are not fixed on the pi 3 you can use the pi zero, which does not have the usb hub and instead exposes the usb OTG directly. 

These conveniences aren't just for "noobs", in the commercial world many memory manufacturers will offer a pre-programming services for components purchased from them. Recently I was configuring a fleet of 20 raspberry pi's for an industrial deployment, and opted to go for a raspberry pi branded pre-programmed SD cards, the extra cost was more than worth the saved time of having to image SD cards myself. In other words, I would not be wary of pre-programmed SD cards just because they are pre-programmed. It depends completely on the supplier and your trust in them. Typically, if designing a commercial product or purchasing for commercial use, one will establish a (human) relationship with important suppliers. If security is important to you, then it is up to you to find the supplier that is willing to work to build that trust and deliver on your expectations. 

This type of problem is actually quite difficult for an embedded device to do. Decoding and multiplexing audio streams in real time is the realm of a dedicated Digital Signal Processor (DSP). Using 8 Output Devices will list the available audio devices You best bet is to write your audio data to a raw audio file Using 8 separate sound cards, you would start each file with a script 

To experiment, you could replicate some of the stability of an by putting a Thermo-Electric Cooler (TEC aka Peltier Element) to keep the and the broadcom CPU at a constant temperature. In other words, eliminate the temperature issue by keeping the Raspberry PI at constant temperature. 

Bit-Masking For an explanation see: $URL$ If we assume that the ZYXDR is then we construct a mask in python by defining a binary literal, then we use the bitwise-and (python wiki) to extract that bit of data. 

Your problem is with the Exec line. is not a valid way to execute a command with bash, you want . However the exec line already uses a shell to execute the command so you do not need bash wrapper at all and can just use: 

It sounds like what you are doing on the arduino is , converting the range from 0-1024 to 0-255 then using . What you are doing is converting a analog signal to a PWM signal. The function is badly named in the arduino sdk. It does not write an analog signal to a pin. Instead it sends a series of pulses, with varying width between them where 0 is fully off and 1 is full on. In some devices (such as leds) this mimics the effect of changing the voltage. Other devices such as servos and motor controllers actually expect a PWM signal to function correctly. There is no way without addition hardware for an arduino UNO to generate a true analog signal. Now, in electronics analog to digital converters and digital to analog converters convert a signal from a min to a max voltage in so many steps, 1024 in the case of the arduino ADC. Even if analogWrite produced a true analog signal, its range is 0-255, but the min and max voltage would still likely be the same - just with less resolution so all you are doing is lowering the resolution of the signal rather then reducing its voltage. Now, the pi has no ADC built into it so you need some sort of external ACD to read an analog signal, there are many such chips about and you can skip the arduino UNO entirely by using one, without having to worry about coding it at all - you can just worry about coding on the pi. Assuming you still want to use the arduino as a ADC you are going to need to talk to the pi over a protocol it understands. There are many of them to pick from: serial (UART), i2c or spi. WARNING: the arduino UNO is a 5v device dy default, its pins will read/write signale at 5v. The raspberry pi can only accept 3.3v MAX on a pin. Sending a 5v signal to it will damage the pi. You can use a logic level converter to shift from 5v to 3.3v. Alternatively, you can run the arduino off 3.3v (by supplying 3.3v to the pin label (and bypassing the 5v reg onboard) or by replacing the voltage reg with a 3.3v reg, at which point the pins will read/write 3.3v max. Serial is probably the easiest to get started with. You will want to change your sketch basically; then and finally a small to stop it overwhelming the serial line. From the pi you can read these values with any serial reading application (picocom, screen, minicom) on the device file: 

Note that the USB input is additionally protected from reverse power, it is a good idea to replicate both of these protection schemes in your set up. Keep in mind that these largely protect the operator and the power supply. If the polyfuse trips due to accidental short, the board is probably dead anyway, however if you are simply running too many loads then the polyfuse will protect the on board power supply and the wall-wart from continuous over-current. It is legitimate to use Diodes to power supplies and prevent reverse current. You just have to be sure to take into account the diode voltage drop or compensate for it in your schematic like what is done on the raspberry pi. 

You reset the variable every outer loop. So you are always timing from the start of reading to your selected sample. It makes sense that the value you get increases 

Magic! Replace uptime with other system utilities or shell scripts that print information you need. The connection is bi-directional so you can use it to pass arguments or diagnostic commands to your scripts as well. Use access control to restrict who can connect to this port, if this is a pi on a public network. Aggregating information from several pis can be done with an intermediate webserver that queries each pi through a secure network or VPN and displays the needed information. Because it's a simple socket interface, you just connect and read a status string. CGI Script By installing nginx, apache, or other webserver, you can execute simple shell scripts to create plain text pages, this is usually sufficient for internal (non-public) diagnostic and debug information. It is not recommended to use this for devices on the public internet, however, security risks can be mitigated by using access control lists in the webserver () to limit hosts that can connect to the pi. Script Example (, make sure it is executable) 

You need at least two pis. Each only has one HDMI port and can only run one os/display at a time. You effectively have three entities, the media server and two displays/thin clients. Raspberry pis can act as either a media server or a thin client (or both at once). So you can connect one pi to one display, have it run as a media server and client to that display and have the other pi connect to the first over the network and act just as a client. XBMC can act as both a server and client, so you just need to get a second pi connected to the second display to connect to the first one. Note however that the pi is not very fast at network/disk access and streaming two streams over it might prove too much for it. If you find performance to be a problem you can setup a central media server (on low end hardware, possibly with more disk space) to act as the media server (with XBMC) and the two pis to just act as clients. 

From here you can run any command to manipulate the image. Once finished setting it up how you want exit the chroot and do some cleanup: 

Then they build a docker image with your application in it, and push that to your pi restarting the container all automatically. They even offer a local dev loop where you can build the docker image locally and push it directly to the pi. 

Note that you might find that the terminal window closes right after the last command finishes. If you want to keep it open you can add (depending on your terminal) or (depending on the terminal application you use). Alternative you can append to the end of the command to keep the terminal window open waiting for some input. This will work even if your terminal does not support an option to keep it open. 

The Raspberry PI, and potentially, even the contactor can be mounted in the same location The PLC is mounted in a cabinet, which can double as a junction box (for electrical wiring) or otherwise mounted near the feed in for the room. 

It is a little confusing, your Raspberry Pi is however, it is being run in compatibility mode. This is determined by the OS. In particular, has a 64 bit architecture known as or , it also has an execution mode that is compatible with . Also known as or Because 32 bit architecture of is directly compatible with , and for other technical reasons I am likely overlooking, the operating system refers to the arch as If you need further convincing. Raspbian has a 64bit build. that will report . For more information about using the 64 bit architecture I will leave these links 

Create a custom adapter board or HAT Consider creating a custom board or hat that has the appropriate connector and routes the connections to correct GPIO pins. Alternative to a custom adapter cable. 

The problem here is that uses a from the data line. This means there is a limit, or max number of devices on the bus that is determined by the total current draw of your devices and proportional the pull-up resistor and the supply voltage. In this case, your system has a maximum fanout of 7 devices (calculated below), and you are powering 9, the best solution is to decrease the value of the pull-up resistor to say, Additionally, it is prefered with 1-wire to use a daisy chain and not long parallel wires. Using 3m cables to distant sensors adds significant capacitance to the line. To compensate this, a smaller pull-up resistor can be used as well. How to calculate the fanout of 1-wire bus Each device, during phantom power phase, will draw a maximum of 15uA. Therefore for our estimates, the total current draw is the number of devices times . The the maximum fanout is when the total current reduces the supply voltage to through our Pull-Up resistor.