End devices as PCs, tablets, servers don't recognize VLAN headers. The switch is the device that injects the VLAN header on the standard Ethernet frame using 802.1Q. From that moment the Ethernet frame is not standard. When the frame moves between switches there are no problems because switches can identify VLAN headers. When the frame is going out of the network to the destination device, then the switch must eliminate the VLAN header, to re-establish the standardness of the frame. That is what the author of the article was trying to explain. 

This system allows to use the ranges in a more efficient way, and be as flexible as possible to avoid the waste of addresses. 

UTP cables used in the 586 standard inherited their color code from the 25 pair color code developed by AT&T for cabling used in telecommunication purposes. The following table shows the combination of colors to be used for each pair 

The DGS-3100 series supports IEEE 802.1Q VLANs. The switch's default is to assign all ports to a single 802.1Q VLAN named default. The default VLAN has a VID = 1. If a port is configured with Tagging enabled, then incoming frames that come with a tag will be untouched and will maintain its VID, but if they come untagged then it will put a VID number. This port will be a "trunk port" (capable of receiving tagged traffic from one or more VLANs). For more details, here is the configuration manual (Tagging and untagging, page 68). 

it's possible using VPN. You need in location A a home router with a built-in VPN server. You can then use your router’s web interface to activate and configure the VPN server. Check if your existing router has a built-in VPN server. Otherwise, buy a new one or check if your router can be flashed with or . if you flash your router, you are replacing the router’s standard operating system with a new one. and get a built-in VPN server support, so you can host a VPN server even on routers that don’t come with VPN server software. Be sure to pick up a supported router — or check your current router to see if it’s supported by DD-WRT. Flash the third-party firmware and enable the VPN server. On laptop 3 you will need to configure the VPN connection in: 

The traffic will go through the router unless your switch is a Layer 3 switch, and you configure it to make a direct routing from PC to Server. However to achieve that you will need to put the PC and the Server in different VLANs. Keep in mind this to understand the situation: 

The first address divided by the number of addresses per subnet is always an integer without decimals, and that is possible because the last k bits are 0. It makes impossible to have a block starting on 192.168.1.133, for example, because 133/32= 4.15625 

2 - A layer 2 switch (also a bridge) is a single broadcast domain and multiple collision domains (one per port). 3 - A Layer 2 switch with VLANs is multiple broadcast domains (one for each VLAN) and multiple collision domains (one per port). Case 1 is a hub, we will forget about it. Cases 2 and 3 is a layer 2 switch. Layer 2 switches only check source MAC and destination MAC in the layer 2 frame. A layer 2 switch doesn't care what is happening in upper layers (IP in this case). Your network is in case 2, where each broadcast frame is heard by all the devices and is the device who checks the upper layer to see if the packet is aimed to it or simply has to be discarded. Separating in different subnets (PCs and Voice) is not improving performance or security because: 

It wasn't a "paper launch". Some vendors adopted both standards, for example Cabletron (Now Siemens) and Nortel (now dissapeared) offered at that time network cards for their modular switches with 1000 BASE TX interfaces. (Nortel Baystack 380 and SSR-GTX32-04 for example). The main problem for this standard was that was cheaper and easier to change network cards than changing the cabling of a building or campus. 

The ISP has granted 190.100.0.0/16. The /16 part means that the range granted is: from to . That whole range can be subnetted as you want according to your needs. 

Anyone is free to use any address of these ranges in their private network as long as it remains private. Your home router uses NAT to avoid exposing your private addresses to the public internet, but yet be able to connect to internet. The following image from a web site that explains NAT may help you to understand the concept. 

I issue a to from my PC My PC sends 3 UDP datagrams to with TLL=1 and port=33434 Inmediately sends 3 UDP datagrams to with TTL=2 and port=33435 Inmediately sends 3 UDP datagrams to with TTL=3 and port=33436 

The Internet Layer doesn't understand or care if the original data is TCP, UDP, ICMP or other thing. It simply sends the data. 

Static NAT uses a single public IP address. That's enough to establish a communication from inside (local network) to outside (internet) just like web browsing, use streaming services as Netflix, etc. If inside the local network I have a web server and I want it to be public, then in the NAT router I can open a public port () in the public IP and directed it to the IP of the local server. Now, a communication can be established from outside (internet) to inside (web server). If I have another web server in my local network I can't make it public using port 80 because it is in use. I'll need a second public IP adddress and to open port 80 on that second IP and redirected to the IP of the second server. 

You are using a mask , it means that the range of addresses is from to . In 1993, the Internet Engineering Task Force published RFC 1518 and RFC 1519. These RFCs define a new concept called Classless Inter Domain Routing. The most important thing of those RFCs is that obsoletes the Classful Network where ranges where associated with classes with fixed netmasks. 

There are 2^48 addresses. It means 281474976710656 unique combinations. To make it clearer: MAC Addresses are 6 bytes, for example: 

In the switch there is a feature called static routing that you can use to create routes between VLANs. 

If a network address is subnetted, the first subnet obtained after subnetting the network address is called subnet zero and the last subnet obtained is called the all-ones subnet. In your example: Network: 192.168.5.0 Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.224 Subnets: 

Suppose the typical client-server connection, for example watching a YouTube video or browsing the web. When you watch a video or do web browsing the downstream is highly used, but the upstream is almost not used, mainly to send periodical short bursts of data. When you have a P2P application open 24 hours you are downloading and also continually uploading files, probably using all your upload bandwith. ISPs doesn't expect that behavior and have designed their systems keeping in mind that the typical upstream will be short bursts of data and long silences. ADSL is the typical assymetrical home solution, it uses POTS cable to transport data, and all the ADSL connections on a zone are gathered on a DSLAM at the ISP zone premises. The power of the upstream signal is weaker on the DSLAM as there are more distance from the home to the DSLAM, meanwhile the power of the downstream signal on the DSLAM is very high for everybody. Imagine all the cables coming from the houses and getting on the DSLAM, as they are together for some length, then happens crosstalk (interference from one cable to the other), the high power signals will interfere the low power signals. Per design, the ISP supposes that the user will use the upstream to send short burts of data then crosstalk seems to be not important, but as more users use upstream to upload files causing a constant stream of data, then crosstalk increases causing loss of data and retransmisions. The DSLAM becomes a bottleneck for the upstream traffic and finally the user gets the impression that the network is slower. 

Suppose you want to start an ISP (Internet service Provider). You will need a group of servers, for example for DNS, e-mail, etc. You will need to put a router to connect your servers and users to the rest of the world, so the best place is an Internet exchange point (IX). The primary purpose of an IX is to allow networks to interconnect directly (as they are inside the same building), eliminating the cost of installing costly cables from your ISP to high-tier ISPs. You put your equipments on the IX premises, get agreements with other ISPs on the same IX and now your ISP is public and working. You pay a rent for using the space and electrical power of the IX. The more connections you have, the better service you give. So, there comes a time when your ISP needs to connect to other ISP not available through the IX, let's call it ABC. Then you can rent the use of a limited bandwith on a link to ABC belonging to a third-party provider, let's call it XYZ. Your ISP is growing and then there is a moment that you can consider stop paying a rent for the limited bandwith to XYZ and then you deploy your own connection with more bandwith directly to ABC eliminating the monthly fee. The ISP keeps growing, so you are considering to connect directly to ISPs on other continents, then you have to pay a monthly fee for bandwith on a submarine cable, unless your business has grown so much that you can deploy your own one. 

A segment longer that the receiving window must be discarded, otherwise the receiver could get in a buffer overflow, and that could be exploited to hack the receiver's system. The receiver is constantly letting know its receiving window value to the sender, so during normal operation the sender obeys that restriction. Receiving a larger segment is a violation of the flow control rules and that's why it should be ignored. 

If the noise is strong then the signal cannot be recognized. Higher ratios means better cables. Below 10dB is very bad and more than 20dB is good. At higher ratios, more speed can be achieved and lower ratios mean error-prone cable and lower speeds. The SNR margin is the difference between the SNR of the cable and the SNR needed to get an specific speed. Suppose that the SNR of the cable is 34dB and the SNR to sync at 6Mb is 30dB, then the SNR margin is 34-30 = 4dB 

IPV6 designers have reduced this complexity (streamlined the header) to make it easier for routers and network systems to verify each packet and forward it using a routing table. The IPV6 header has the following 8 fields: 

This restriction on CIDR was created to forbid that an arbitrary block could be created, let's see an example: Suppose that we have the full block 192.168.1.0 and we want to subnet it with /27 /27 means that from the 32 bits of the address, 27 are network, and 5 are host, then we have 2^5 addresess per subnet. The subnets are: 

As you can see, the first is 5 volts, but the next is -5 volts. This is neccesary to avoid that a long string of s energizes the communication line. If the cable is exposed to electromagnetic interference, then the voltage levels can be altered. If a -5 volts value becomes -2 volts then the receiver can't identify it precisely as a or a . If your data cable runs for a long stretch parallel to power cables, then the power cable can cause interference to the data cable and induce errors. 

It will work. Keep in mind this to learn why: 1 - A LAN is a single broadcast domain and single collision domain. 

The OSI layer model is a theoretical model used to describe the way that communication among systems had to be handled. A real life communication model is, for example, TCP/IP. IP is layer 3 and TCP/UDP are layer 4 protocols. Lower layers are managed by WLAN and Ethernet in real life LANs nowadays. Windows has these layers as software embedded inside the Operating System that can be accessed through Winsock. On Linux it is part of the kernel. You can check the source code of it here. HTTP is a server-client protocol. The HTTP client code is inside the web browser. You can check the source code of Firefox 48 here. Examples of HTTP servers are Microsoft IIS and Apache. Here is the source code of Apache. When the user hits enter after entering a URL on his browser( for example), then it sends a connection request to the HTTP server. The request goes through the lower layers and then through Internet until it gets to the HTTP server in google. This HTTP server responds with data that goes through the internet until it gets to the web browser of the user. 

I think you are speaking of bits, not bytes. Before sending a frame, the sender put a preamble of 64 bits (8 bytes): 

Switches forward all packets it receives to the best of its ability. If is unable to send a packet immediately, the packet is queued in a buffer and if the queue is full, the packet is dropped. Typically a switch has input and output buffers per port instead of a common buffer for each port, so an overload of incoming traffic port doesn't affect the outgoing of the same port. This is a diagram of this buffer arrangement: 

The bridge / switch concept wasn't created as a security solution. Its main goal was to alleviate the problem that arises when there is a high number of devices attached to a single ethernet network. When ethernet networks were a bunch of hubs together you could have hundreds of workstations sharing the same collision domain and the same broadcast domain. As more stations you have in a single collision domain, the chances of transmitting without collisions is lower, and the results are: more retransmissions and a perception of slow network. A bridge divides the network in a number of collision domains equal to the number of ports the bridge has and maintaining a single broadcast domain. The result is less collisions for the same number of workstations, improving the general speed of the network. The ultimate bridge is the switch, where each workstation is inside its own collision domain, letting the workstations to use full duplex (because as there are not collisions, the workstation can transmit and receive simultaneously). 

The IPv6 documentation prefix must be used ONLY for documentation purposes. It means written examples, diagrams, PPT presentations, Textbook explanations, etc. This range shouldn't be used in practical networks. There is a "private IP range" of which should be used for device testing, demos, courses, etc. as per RFC4193 Unicast adresses in this range must be used in local networks without access to public internet. 

Think of ports as doors. Your PC has a lot of doors and the server also. A web server has the door 80 open, so if a PC acting as a client wants to connect to the web server, then: 1- The PC opens a random port (door), for example 50000. 2 - From that port the client PC sends a package of data to web server IP address port (door) 80. 3 - If the package is a correct request, then the web server replies from port 80 to client IP address port 50000. 4 - If the reply is correct and the communication ends, the client PC closes its port (door) 50000. The client starts the communication process to the server, and therefore he chooses a random port in the range known as ephemeral ports () to connect to the server. The port stays open while there is a data transmission with the server. Whenever the transmission ends, the port is closed. Internet connections require the use of a public IP address. In IPv4 there are 4294967296 (2^32) addresses. Those addresses have been exhausted years ago. So ISPs use (Network Address Translation) to reduce the number of IP Public addresses on each connection. In a typical home connection to internet, the devices in the home network use addresses in the range 192.168.X.X because that range is considered private and can be used on every home or office network. The router or modem uses a single public IP address to connect to the external world, so the device has to translate the internal private address to the external one and the ports opened/used inside and outside to avoid confusions. NAT maps the pair internal address:port to a external address:different port and that mapping let it process the replies correctly, avoiding the confusion if two clients coincidentally open the same source port. The modem and the NAT process are designed to do this in an automatic way as long as the communication starts from inside the network to external servers. If you decide to put, for example, a web server inside your home network (therefore, on a private IP address) and you want that the server can be accessed from the external world then you have to manually configure NAT to let it know that incoming connections to port 80 (web server port) must get through the device and go to the internal IP private address of the web server.