The best thing to do is take the site down. Restore from a backup and then patch the server/site/software etc. 

Volume servers are normally referred to as 1 Server = 1 Role. Low Volume is normally 1 Server = Many Roles (Normally a Virtual Server). The term is normally used in design of Datacentre’s to the amount of rack space you would need to complete a function and as a single server performing 1 role takes up more space and power than a Low volume server taking circa the same amount of power but performing more roles these are the more welcomed in most modern datacentre designs. 

Also if you include the memory state of the VM at the time of snapshotting this creates a this again is a delta file and refers to the original memory files if needed. A file is created this lists all the files created at the time of the snapshot process 

I have been asked to see if it is possible to count the number of print outs that are handle by our file server Background: we have a “Wall Board” for the amount of phone calls we take and now management are trying to push the green agenda (in a good way). They would now like to show the amount of print outs that we print out during a day (Before any one comments about the engery usage of the computer to handle this it is powered by solar power :). All our printers are on the same print server (Windows 2008 R2). I have been doing some Google-ing and seem to be coming up with a stumbling block if this is at all possible. How would one accomplish this? 

I’m thinking that this is more a problem with the physical disk. Have you checked for Disk Fragmentation? Also have you run a checkdisk? This might shed some light any on physical problems. You say the website isn’t responding. Does it do this when you access the website locally? Or just external from this server? Sorry to ask more questions in an answer. 

I am in a catch 22 position. I need to do some work on a SAN that hosts our VCenter but due to the client only having Essentials Plus licence they do not have Storage Vmotion and can only cold migrate the VM. Obviously if I power down the VM I lose the features provided by VCenter. Is my only option to clone the VM power down the old one and power the new one back on the new data store? Would this cause any issues? Esxi 5.1. VCenter 5.1b 

Tape drives are designed to be in server hardware with correct cooling and air flow setups. I would suggest you check the internal cooling arrangements especially in area of the tape drive and address this. But I have just checked our tape drives and they are warm but these are in s a tape ibrary. 

After doing a lot of research this is a new feature of Exchange 2010 SP1 and is referred by Microsoft as Additional Mailbox Auto Mapping in Exchange 2010 SP1. This is supposed to be a nice feature by Microsoft to stop Sysadmins needing to visit desktops to add additional mailboxes. To disable this you need to install SP2 and remove the full access rights of a user and add them back in. 

Yes you can do this. What you need is one of these: $URL$ Thw differance between MASTER and Slave is that master shoukd be used on devices that ring using the pstn (example a very old phone that draws power from pstn) A slave should be used for digial devices. The only differance is there is a capicter in the master to enable no influx in voltage. 

Bit of background. We map out network drives via GPO. This works fine for both XP and windows 7 clients. The GPO’s are served by a Win2008R2 DC. I have a user that has to works in 2 departments. The one she has got a Windows XPx32 computer in the other she has a Win7x64 computer. If she logs into the Win7 PC her network drives are mapped fine. But when she logs back into the Win XP PC the drives are no longer mapped, until I re-map these manually (or reboot a few times and they come back). Once the drives have been remapped wheather manual or via a few reboots and the GPO re-applying, this works fine until the next loging to the Win7 client. Running GPudpate.exe /force dose not work (Even when saying Yes to logoff) Running RSOP I can see all the policy’s apart from the mapped drives are applied. I have installed KB943729 to give legacy GPO support for the XP client. The user hasn’t got a roaming profile (and I don’t think it will make much difference) Thoughts? 

First off product recommendations are OT on ServerFault, but.. Here’s the but; I have just been in your predicament. I have been trialing SP2010 and Umbaco for our Intranet. I needed something that would take the onious out of IT to manage the content. The users needed to be able to do this. Every product I tried I went back to SharePoint 2010. My reasons; 

Network performance can be degrated during the snapshot process. But in my opinion a little bit of a perofrmance hit is better than losing data. Depending on how critical the data is I would maybe do one during the night. Unless your data is that critical that you must do Hourly etc. Only you can decied how much data you can lose should you need to restore. If you can live with a snapshot 24 hours old stick with it. But if you need your data no less than an hour old from a restore do that. We run snapshots hourly for our main database server as this changes hourly. But our Exchange Server is snapshotted every 12 hours. 

In outlook 2003/2007 click on tools -->send and receive -->download address book This will solve the problem. Sadly you have to do this on each client. Outlook will do a perodic sync as well. In outlook 2010 click on the send receive tab and click on download address book. 

A UPS uses a inverter to convert the 24V DC into 240AC. If you included this into a PC PSU it would make for one heavy PC. A UPS is more than just a battery. It also filters power so it is a pure wave at 50hz (or the variant for the AC you are using) some countries use 60hz. Also UPS's aren’t designed to power a computer. They are designed to allow switch over to a generator or clean shutdown of a system. A Laptop battery is designed to give runtime on the move (as a laptop has lower current demands) 

VMware usually takes DHCP from the first nic. From the screenshot it looks like that the network cable is plugged into NIC2. Try NIC1 and it should work. From there you can set NIC bindings to be NIC2 etc etc. 

Part of most complexity schema's is that you cannot use the same password you have used since X, and X amount of last passwords. Have you checked what the complexity requirements are for this server? From memory I think that this is the last 12 passwords cannot be used. But I may be wrong. 

First off you need to know your host configuration will it support 8V-CPUs? Most modern servers will easily meet or surpass this, but its worth a check. The second thing to ask yourself does this server NEED 8V-CPUs? Well giving it lots of VCPUs will make things faster right? Well if it’s the only VM running on the system may be, but in most use cases we virtualise to consolidate running 10/20 VM’s on a single host. Sometimes a lot more depending on the situation. So you will have a lot of VM’s asking for CPU time the more VCPU’s allocated out the more WAIT time Hyper-V will be asking for (essentially telling the VM to wait for CPU time) this can be from Nano seconds to seconds. There is some good reading here 

After a battery replacement you will need to run a calibration and also set the battery replacement date. This will simulate the UPS going onto battery power, at around 5% the UPS should go back onto mains to re-charge. Once that happens you should get the correct readings in your GUI. There shouldn't be any risk to the system but with anything like this make sure you assess the risk. 

But when logging onto the clients this isn’t applying. I have Run RSOP and the output isn’t showing that this has applied as well. Any comments would be appreciated 

My experience of multi-WAN Connections is that ISP DNS normally causes issues. I always try and use a ISP agnostic DNS Provider like Google DNS or OpenDNS. My ideal setup would be: ISP 1 – Google DNS / Open DNS ISP 2 – Open DNS / Google DNS This will then give complete redundancy. 

Marking a network resource as “Make Available Offline” basically creates a cache of all files held on that store locally. This is how windows will then index the file as it cannot index network shares. When a folder or network drive entirely is available offline you can still work on any shared documents. Windows is just keeping a cached copy. The only time this copy will be used is if the network connection is taken out (the actual use for this feature) or when indexing. Depending on how much local space and how big the network drive is you may or may not be able to do this. 

I wish to enable Network Discovery on my network (For various reasons) I need to apply this via GPO due to the nature of our setup. This is on a Windows 2008 R2 Domain with Windows 7/XP Clients. I have tried to enable this in the GPO and it shows the below; 

I need to migrate my shares from an old Server (server2003 DomainA.co.uk) to a new server (2008R2 DomainB.Local) these are on different domains. My major problem is I need to keep share permissions on each of these shares. (There are hundreds) All the old shares have got Useraccount\DomainB.Local users with permissions on them. But are physically stored on a server in DomainA.co.uk. The server in DomainB has got a DFS share and this is where I will be storing the data. I just need help migrating the shares and setting the permissions. Doing it manually isn’t an option. PowerShell maybe? 

Google Analytics is based on browser scripts. You may find that certain browser add-ins may be blocking the GA script. Also some Corporations block GA at the firewall level. Also Google only tracks humans, (they do display web crawlers) Also things like external styles and scripts will show up in your logs. CloudFlare have a good article on this on how to integrate it using there built in APP. 

You will need to complete this on \ServerComputer for this to work.ONce you have created the second shared printer you will need to add it to the clients that need this printer. But the basics are below. Open Printers and Faxes, Under Printer Tasks, click Add a printer to open the Add Printer Wizard, and then click Next. Click Local printer or stand-alone network printer, clear the Automatically detect and install my Plug and Play printer check box, and then click Next. Click Create a new port, and then click Standard TCP/IP Por Click Next to run the Add Standard TCP/IP Printer Port Wizard. Follow the instructions on the screen to finish installing the TCP/IP printer. Set up the printer how you want it to be set up and share.