[Background Story] So I have a network share where users will create a folder to store their work on a particular project. Files in each user's folder are private due to the parameters given to me by the project managers. On top of that parameter, the users of this folder will change constantly though the year, some for only a few days. So to make the administrative overhead as low as possible, I setup the permissions as follows: 

So after a bit of research and realizing that it was Adobe Flash player that was giving me fits, I formed a possible hypothesis. From what I can tell, SCCM looks in the following WMI location: 

So I've been trying to solve the "The application-specific permission settings do not grant Local Activation permission" problem and everything I've been reading says I need to get "DCOMperm.exe". There are plenty of links to usage and download links that point to non-MS sources. I'd like to get this direct from Microsoft, but I can't find it there. Some people say that it's part of an SDK, but I'm not sure which one. Does anyone have any experience getting this exe? 

Copy Font files to C:\Windows\Fonts Modify the proper registry entry: "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Fonts" 

So I have a number of Type 1 fonts (.PFM & .PFB files) that I am trying to push out to our client machines. After some web searches, here is what I did. 

If you don't want to do an SCCM task sequence the only other option is to setup a scheduled task with the "At startup" trigger. You still need to perform an SCCM task sequence, but your only step would be to run "schtasks.exe". That would run the task at the next startup. I must warn you in advance that the SCCM option that @newmanth suggested is a better choice in most cases. Scheduled task is more geared towards repetitive tasks that need to happen multiple times a year. Hope this helps 

In my Microsoft active directory environment almost every organizational structure is an Organizational Unit. There are two common exceptions to this rule, the Computers object and the Users object. These are the default objects that are created when you setup Active Directory. Whenever I read anything about these objects, I am told that they use "Container Names" for backwards compatibility. From what I understand, these objects were configured that way when active directory was setup. My main question is this: 

On my machine, I installed all of the fonts by opening the font file in windows explorer and clicked the "Install" button. Exported the following registry location: Created a batch file that would copy the files and import the registry information. Ran batch file "as Administrator" on a machine with UAC turned on. Restarted computer and checked for font install. 

The above doesn't work of course because the number sign is a special character for comments so it ignores it. I can't escape the character with a back tick "`" so I am at a loss of what to do. I'd rather avoid having to do all of this through a csv file since I loose a lot of data when I do that. Thanks 

So from everything I have gathered, there is not a way to do this. From what I can tell, the magic packet doesn't differentiate between sleep and powered down. That doesn't mean remote support is impossible. You just have to attack the problem in another direction. The core tool that you have to overcome this limitation is scheduled tasks. When you create a task, there is an option under "conditions" called "Wake the computer to run this task". This will allow you to run a task when the system is in sleep mode. If the computer is off, it will skip over the command and stay off. Once you have your tasks setup, just setup an automatic statup time that happens before all of your tasks and you will be able to again manage your systems. I use "schtasks.exe" to add tasks remotely. It allows you to specify a username and password to use for the tasks and you can overwrite them as needed. It's a complex system to setup, but can save alot of time and power if you have windows 7 machines across the board. 

I set the permissions, Hit OK, and everything works. Later, when I come back to add the content manager group to the Security tab I notice something odd. The "CREATOR OWNER" entry has switched from Modify to Special. I go into Advanced permissions and I notice that the "CREATOR OWNER" only applies to "Subfolders and files only". I then try to reset the "Apply To" drop down to "This folder, subfolders, and files" but it switches back as soon as I hit "Apply". 

What's weird is that there is a KB article that talks about this KB823658. The problem is that the hotfix was rolled up into SP2 so it should already be applied. Another weird thing is that the Boot Information Negotiation Layer Service (BINLSVC) is not displayed as a running service so I can't restart it when I make changes to the image. I do have the Windows Deployment Service (WDS) and I am hoping that it was rolled into that as well. This is a system that has DHCP, DNS, and AD installed and I have run RISETUP.EXE . This all mostly done with the default values and this is in a test environment where there is very little else on the subnet. 

Hosting print services has more to do with your computer environment than the technology available to you. Putting any service on a dedicated Hyper-V instance makes sense when you want to isolate it from other services and don't want to buy more hardware/licenses. Here are some questions you should ask yourself. 

We have migrated from Windows XP to Windows 7 at a high school and have run into a problem. The computer lab machines can have upwards of 5-10 different people log into the machine each day. As time goes on, the local cache of user accounts fills up the small hard drives we have. We don't have money to upgrade so we need to find a way to delete the profiles monthly. In the past we have used delprof from microsoft which worked great. The problem is that delprof doesn't work for windows 7. Does anyone have a way to delete a profile from a batch/powershell script? If you simple delete the files, you get an error the next time the user logs in. Thanks in advance 

I was working on setting up a network share (see below story) and I ran into some odd behavior with NTFS permissions. The "CREATOR OWNER" object seems to only be able to list "Special" permissions in the "Security tab". No matter what I do, the system reverts back to this setting. Is there a way to get the "CREATOR OWNER" entry to list anything other than Special in the security tab? It would make checking for permission mistakes so much easier since I wouldn't have to dive into the Advanced Tab to see what permissions I set for this group. This is on Windows 7 client connecting to a Windows Server 2008 share. Bonus Question: I also would like to know why the "CREATOR OWNER" group can't apply permissions to "This folder". This seems like a weird quirk of this group that must have a story behind why it was setup this way. I did some searching and found the "How Permissions Work" technet article. I browsed through looking for information on the "OWNER" permission and only found some information on how that permission works. 

This example is for Intel HD Graphics 530. It works until I add a Video Card. I'm using a Dell Precision Tower 3620 which has a feature that allow you to use both onboard and PCI-E video cards at the same time. They show up as two different devices in device manager but they are both using the standard VGA driver. The driver package, on the other hand, disappears from software center. When I use the Deployment Monitoring Tool (part of Config Manager Toolkit), I see that the Requirement Violation is that the Current Value doesn't Equal the Rule Expression. The problem is that the Current Value is the Device ID for the PCI-E video card. From what I can tell, the requirement processes each instance recorded in the Win32_VideoController Class and you have to pass all of them in order to allow the deployment to evaluate as applicable. So does anyone have an idea on how I can get SCCM to properly handle the multiple instances that the WQL query is returning? I just need a way to pass the requirement evaluation when one of many instance matches the value. 

I only want to wake up those systems in the S3 power state, not the S5 power state. (explanation of power states) Any thoughts? Thanks in advance 

Now, the problem comes up is that the task name is stored as an XML comment. When added to tasks object, all of this data is stored under the "#comment" key. Using normal addressing rules, you would be accessing: 

It would wake up every machine on my network up, both S3 and S5. I have to know what the MAC address of the machine is in order to wake it up. Not all machines have WoL enabled. 

One of the other techs in our organizations came across something called Group Policy Preferences. It is new to Server 2008 and it seems really powerful. Here's a link for more information: $URL$ Inside this new feature is a "Shortcuts Preference extension". This allows you to mange shortcuts on the client machines using group policy. Since you are copying a file object to the local machine, you don't depend on an available network connection. The system is technically caching files locally, but it does so without the need for folder redirection and offline files. I realize that I shouldn't answer my own questions, but this seems to be the best solution available. I'll try it out and update this answer if it doesn't work out. 

So after a bit of work I have fount that the best way to do this is to convert the fonts to open type fonts. Then you can deploy the font to the machine. Here is where I converted my fonts: $URL$ Once converted to ".otf", you can do the following steps: 

I've been working with Get-Printer and I ran into a situation where the server returns two instances of every print device. One is called "Print" and the other is "Print3D". I can't find any information about this online and I'm wondering what this device type is supposed to be used for. Bonus: How do you turn this off and what impact does it have on printing? Running Windows Server 2008 R2 

I have a windows 7 system that is part of a domain. When it is unable to access the domain controller, will it still run logon scripts? Right now, we have a local script that is launched from the run section of the registry that checks for connectivity. If it can't talk to the server, it modifies some settings that prevent major bugs while using the machine. This is probably the worst way to do this, but it's what a previous tech setup. What are some best practices for setting up logon scripts with GPO's and active directory? Whatever I set still needs to be able to run when the system is off the network. Thanks 

I am working with a Powershell script that adds scheduled tasks to systems in our domain. When I run this script, it will prompt me for my password. I sometimes fat finger the password and the process starts, which locks out my account. Is there a way to verify my credentials to make sure that what I typed in will validate with the Domain? I'd like to find a way to query the Domain controller. I've done some Google searches and I should be able to do a WMI query and trap for an error. I would like to avoid that style of validation if possible. Any ideas? Thanks in advance. 

There are a number of other fonts already installed so you can just mirror the registry settings of another font. 

So I've been troubleshooting sleep timers for our systems and have run across an interesting issue. I need a way to report how long a system was awake after a number of different inputs. Now, I've discovered that the System Log tracks wake and sleep events and even tells you the times that everything happens at. The thing is doesn't tell you is what triggered the wake event. It does give you a numerical code however. Here are some examples of what I am finding. 

[Request] I'm good enough with powershell to translate the above workaround into a pair of scripts. I'd like to find a more elegant solution then my current workaround. Any suggestions? 

So I'm working on a way to use Powershell to get a list of scheduled tasks. Through my research, I determined that the only way to get "most" tasks is to use SCHTASKS. This command does allow for XML output which you can push right into a variable: