I have an issue with a particular Windows 2012 R2 server. For some reason, the Comodo intermediate cert keeps getting automatically installed in the root store instead of the intermediate store (where it also exists). I have tried both deleting it and disabling all purposes for it. After a few days, the cert either reappears or is re-enabled, all on its own. This is the cert: 

Zero downtime and the only thing users had to do was restart Outlook after their mailbox was moved. In my case, over a site-to-site VPN tunnel between NY (Site A) and Virginia (Azure East US/Site B), it took about 15-16 hours to move two 21 GB mailboxes. 

I inherited a network with a Fortigate 60B firewall. The VPN dial up client works right now as long as I specify a static IP. Problem is, it becomes hard to manage when I need to assign each and every person using the client their own personal IP. I already have a DHCP server on the internal network and so I figured I'd configure the firewall to relay the DHCP to dial up VPN clients. Unfortunately, that isn't working. I turned on debugging for DHCP relay and this is what I got: 

I never had this issue in the past, but I always had DPM2010 installed on Windows 2008 R2. Could this be a DCOM security feature with Windows 2012? 

I'm sorry if this isn't the right forum for this question but I read the rules and it didn't seem to imply I can't ask this... Anyways I'm looking to get some EC2 dedicated instances because I will be hosting a HIPAA compliant site and as I understand, you are required by Amazon to get dedicated instances for this. I read that there is a dedicated per region fee of $2 per hour, regardless of how many instances you run in that region ($URL$ Does this mean that it costs a base of ~$17,520 per year to have one dedicated instance? $2 per hour x 8760 hours per year = $17,520 

When I view the Certificate Info from Chrome, it says the issuer is the Linux server and has no mention of the actual domain name. Looks like it's loading a different cert altogether. Any ideas? 

I'll just put this here in case someone else needs it cause I literally just stumbled upon the answer now through trial and error, after an entire day of troubleshooting this issue. I read so many posts and blogs and none of them recommended adding the directive to . After adding the following lines, all my issues cleared up and MariaDB/MySQL stopped hogging all the memory. Your values may need to be adjusted for your specific scenario. 

I configured an Azure VM with Windows 2012 R2 and the DNS Server role installed. I have another VM in the same VNet and I am using nslookup to query the DNS server. Every time I query any domain name on this DNS server specifically, it times out the first two tries and then resolves successfully. The reason is that it's appending the query with a long cloudapp.net domain. For example, I set the d2 option on nslookup and queried cnn.com: 

What worked for me finally was to logon as a different admin user and start Task Manager, switch to the Users tab, right-click the problem user and select "Connect". 

A recent network scan revealed the following vulnerability: Apache Struts s:a / s:url Tag href Element XSS. Here is a link with more info about this vulnerability: $URL$ I would like to patch this vulnerability but everything I have read says that you need to update the struts package. However, in my case, this package is not installed. I have Redhat Enterprise Linux 5 with Apache 2.2.3. Is struts bundled in there? How can I patch this issue? 

When I run this cmdlet from Ex2k7 shell, it replies correctly with Ex2k7 and Ex2k10 servers. I haven't been able to figure out what to do about this. Can anyone point me in the right direction? 

I ended up finding that Putty was not allowing me to see the login screen. I installed SecureCRT and the login prompt showed up right away. Weird since I'm using the exact same settings on both programs (9600 baud, 8 data bits, no parity, 1 stop bit). 

With Azure Classic, I could create two VM's in the same cloud service and I would get one public IP for both, and it would automatically load balance traffic between the two VM's. With the new Azure Resource Manager, I have no option to join a VM to a cloud service for obvious reasons. However, I still need to get one public IP for both VM's and have the traffic load balanced. I saw that there is the Azure Load Balancer feature. Is this basically the replacement for the old cloud service load balancing? If so, does it cost anything to run? 

We have a website hosted in IIS 7.5, say www.example.com, and we purchased an SSL cert for it. Now we would like to implement SAML2.0 in some of the responses. Is it possible to use our existing SSL cert to encrypt the SAML responses? 

I have a web app which is load balanced across two Windows 2012 R2 servers with IIS 8.5. Sometimes, it seems the IIS process gets "stuck" on one web server but there is no indication of an issue anywhere - not in our app logs or the Windows event log. The only thing which fixes it is an iisreset. And the only way we know it's happening is because the site fails to load intermittently and we get email alerts. How can I catch these events without relying on monitoring alerts? I want to configure an HTTP probe on the load balancer but that means the web server will be silently removed from rotation and we'll have no idea that a web server has an issue. 

There's some info about it here: $URL$ Basically it sends ARP requests through your network and builds a MAC/IP table based on that. 

I am brand new to Azure and still trying to figure everything out so please excuse my ignorance. I'm trying to take one VM running IIS and to host multiple websites on it, each with a different SSL certificate. Therefore, I assume I need multiple cloud services (with multiple public IP's) and also multiple internal IP's on the VM (to bind each SSL cert to a unique IP). Is that the wrong way of thinking about this scenario in Azure? If not, how do I add a VM to multiple cloud services, and also how do I assign multiple internal IP's to a VM? 

Turns out the issue was that I forgot to include the NameVirtualHost *:443 directive in the virtual hosts config file, as well as adding the *:443 binding to the existing virtual host. 

I would like to detect if a user is connecting to our IIS 7.5 server with TLS 1.0 or 1.1, and then redirect them to a friendly error message. Is this possible? If not, is it possible to do it at the application level (.Net MVC)? 

I have an IIS hosted ASP.Net site which is experiencing timeouts. I would like to be able to monitor it from every angle but I'm not sure where to start with configuring PerfMon counters. Does anyone know of a sort of template for PerfMon for monitoring ASP.Net applications on Windows 2012? 

When I check the event viewer on the SQL server, I see the following two errors grouped together multiple times, for each corresponding failed login attempt: 

In Azure, is there any way to set up an HTTPS endpoint directly on the public VIP, as opposed to joining each VM to a load balanced set, so that I can associate this endpoint with the SSL certificate and forward decrypted traffic to the VM's? I know AWS allows you to install a certificate directly on the elastic load balancer and configure SSL termination, but I haven't found any guide for this in Azure. 

While learning how to use my Cisco 851W router, I downloaded a configuration script with preconfigured settings. I ran this from the router and now I can no longer boot up and get to a command prompt. I have tried holding the reset button while turning the router back on, but I guess there is no valid file in flash because it continues loading the config from NVRAM. Here is the output during bootup. At the last line, it freezes and I can no longer do anything. Any ideas how to recover from this? 

I am pretty familiar with IIS and URL Rewrite but I just got a task which stumped me. I need to check each request for the presence of the X-Forwarded-For HTTP header and, depending on its presence, redirect the request. How can I check for this header? 

Can I configure DHCP split scope using our current Windows 2008 server with DHCP, and a new Windows 2012 server which I have installed DHCP on? 

My existing SSL cert is about to expire so I need to replace it with the new one. I have been provided a .cer and .key file. How can I smoothly replace the cert with minimal downtime? 

So could this be the reason he is seeing IP conflict errors? If not, how can I further investigate the cause? Thanks! 

However, I see nothing in the general logs. If I enter a bad password, that DOES show up in the logs though. But nothing about aborted connections: 

I created a VM using the standard CentOS 7.1 image in the Azure gallery. I generalized it and captured it as a base image for future deployments. However, once I spin up a VM using this image, the provisioning just runs for over an hour before finally displaying the status and the new portal notifies me that it failed to create the VM. However, I'm still able to connect to the VM and everything works. Why does it say that the provisioning has timed out? I tried shutting it down from the portal and restarting it but it had no effect. I tried checking and unchecking the option that says the agent extension is already installed. I changed the VM size. Nothing works. 

We currently have a domain with two AD sites. Site A has one Exchange 2010 server which currently holds all the mailboxes. I set up the new site, Site B, and it is connected via site-to-site VPN. Site B has one new Exchange 2010 server and zero mailbox databases as of now. I did set up a mailbox database on Site B server and moved a test user's mailbox from Site A server to make sure that the mailbox move feature works, and then quickly deleted it after verifying that. The goal is to keep the same DNS info (autodiscover, MX, OWA, etc) but to migrate the mailboxes and public folders from Site A server to Site B server, and then decommission the Site A server. What would be the best way to achieve this without causing interruption in mail service? EDIT: The current plan is to switch DNS to point to the new Site B server and then slowly migrate the mailboxes over to it as well. The main concern is that the server in Site A will continue trying to send mail for clients and will be rejected because the DNS will no longer be configured correctly for it. The second concern is that Outlook clients will need to be reconfigured to point to the new server's hostname. 

I have Postfix installed which I am using for SMTP only. It is configured for one of our client's domain and sending newsletters and notifications to the users. The problem is that because the client owns the domain and receives mail for it, any time there is a message that is bounced or undeliverable, they receive the NDR. This is becoming a nuisance for them and they have asked us to disable sending of these NDR's. Is it possible to do so? I believe the following parameters are relevant (taken from our current configuration): notify_classes = resource, software error_notice_recipient = postmaster Thanks! 

Just installed Ex2k10 in an organization with an existing Ex2k7 server. Ex2k10 is not receiving any traffic yet. When I try to run the Get-ActiveSyncVirtualDirectory cmdlet from Exchange shell, I get the following error: