If you want to shoot from the hip, remove and re punch down all your conductors at the female end and/or crimp new male ends on (if you have done that part yourself - if not, leave them be). Remember, there are two standards - 568A and 568B. Be sure you're using the same standard at both ends of each cable! 

Packet tracer 7.0 doesn't appear to include the ability to summarize. Here're the only commands available to me on any of the available routers in 7.0, including those running the simulated version of 15.x: 

Check to be sure lacp status is "success" Now patch in your server, each Intel NIC port to an HP port. Come back to the CLI and 

XG1 and XG2 aren't native stacking ports by default. Use XG3 (S1) or XG4 (S2) and I bet it'll stack. 

It's either a hub or a switch. They're not the same thing: switches use packet switching to determine who the recipient is and forward traffic on to that port only. Hubs offer poorer performance, to say the least, because they repeat all incoming traffic they receive on one port to all the other ports without checking to see who actually wants the packets. I would strongly encourage you to use switches if what you have now are actually hubs. What are the model numbers? You have already answered your own question about the speed. Plug in your ethernet run to a device at each end and see what speed each hub/switch auto negotiates to. The different LED colors are there to quickly check what speed a port is running at without having a computer handy- perfect for your needs. Lastly, have a look at this IP camera bandwidth calculator. It may help you decide if you need 1000 mbps. You may easily get away with a 100 mbps network if all that's connected are the four cameras. However, I would again encourage you to use switches instead of hubs. In my experience, it will alleviate many problems and headaches before they even begin, and the price is essentially the same! 

In this example both chassis fans and both power supply fans are reporting all's normal. The system temp is good and I have 17 degrees to go before I reach temp warning. If one fan is hosed it is very likely that system temp increased and the remaining variable-speed fan has picked up the pace to keep the switch cool. 

I'm considering the possibility of moving my public addresses to IPv6 for several web applications and sites that I host. When inquiring with my ISP, the account exec replied to me with the following warning: "I was checking in with the Engineer that is working on IPv6’s and he just sent me the following: Do they realize that if we give them IPv6 addresses they are, generally, only reachable from other IPv6 hosts?" I'm not sure if I understand what is being referred to here. My public DNS provider has verified that their DNS services are fully v6 compliant and as long as my own equipment is capable, why would the ISP issue such a warning to me? 

I have a Wago 750-352 Ethernet Coupler which I believe has been assigned an IP address already. In attempting to use the Wago BootP Server to connect to the device I am unable to connect to it. I believe this is because the device already has a static IP and therefore will not listen over BootP. I have triple checked MAC address in the config file, etc. Is it possible to perform a factory reset such that I can erase the existing IP address in the EEPROM and connect via BootP without the Wago "communication Cable 750-923"? 

What causes delay skew in a typical copper network? From Wikipedia: "The Delay Skew test tests for the difference in propagation delay between the fastest and slowest set of wire pairs. An ideal skew is between 25 and 50 nanoseconds over a 100-meter cable..." The speed of the propagation should be related to the conductors' lengths shouldn't it? So how is it possible for the skew to vary by any measurable amount assuming all four pairs have almost exactly the same overall length (i.e. they weren't cut independently of one another?) 

You can use the Axis IP Utility to find the camera on the local network, even if the IP address is wrong for that network. You can then use it to change the IP to the right setting. The tool can be downloaded from here $URL$ Also, as Ron Trunk said, Wireshark can help you find out what IP is configured in it by looking at the traffic going over the network, even though the IP might be wrong it'll still send some traffic. The MAC address on Axis cameras is the same as the serial number, just add : in between every 2 numbers and letters. The serial number is printed on a small silver sticker on the camera, on the bottom on that model if I remember correctly. You can also set the IP using ARP through the command line if you prefer, but you have to know the MAC (aka. serial number) of the camera to do so. It's exactly the same thing as the IP Utility does, but it might be useful in a pinch. See the cameras manual on how to do that, or just google "Axis ARP" or something along those lines. Finally, you could reset it using the reset button on the camera, this will reset the camera to DHCP, and allow you to get connectivity back. I've seen some cases where the camera jams itself somehow, and you can access it even if you know the IP, and you can't reset it using the IP utility either. Then a reset is the only way to get the camera to behave itself. 

Your design is valid, but you need to carry the management VLAN1080 as well to all switches. As your network isn't that huge, I'd just tag out every single VLAN to every switch (which is how Cisco's VTP works by default by the way) as you'll only see a limited amount of extra broadcast traffic that way. The reason you can't get RSTP to work is that you have enabled almost every single feature of STP on every port. Disable Root Guard, TNC Guard, BPDU Protect and especially BPDU filter on all ports, as these are meant to be used for very specific purposes (read up on what these do before you enable them on select ports). BPDU filter is likely the problem, as it basically tells the switch to not send BPDU (special packets that's used to determine the STP topology) or process the ones it recieves on that port, essentially disabling STP alltogether. It's basically a way to tell the switch to "what I'm going to do looks stupid, but run with it regardless.) You should also tweak the priority of your root switches to make sure that the spanning tree builds it's topology from the root switches instead of from some random switch with the lowest MAC address. Please read through my guide on STP on HP switches, it's meant for the higher end HP Procurve models, but it goes through some core concepts of STP that are useful for you. $URL$ 

About Route Cost and Distance Vectors As xpac said, different routing protocols use different methods to find the best route to a specific network. The idea of a routing protocol is that it allows routers to learn from other routers what networks are attached to which router, instead of you typing everything into every router by hand. A route is basically the "way" to a specific network. As you can have multiple ways to take you to the island of Manhattan from New Jersey for example, you can have multiple routes to a network. A router broadcasts to it's neighbours all the networks it has attached locally. The next router takes this info in, and sees if it has got any of the routes already in memory (called the routing table). If it doesn't, it adds it. If it has, it checks if that route is better than the one it already has, and if it is, it adds it higher up than the old one in the routing table. And when it's done, it sends out all the routes it now knows of onwards to it's neighbours (only exception is that it doesn't send back routes to the router it got them from). This way the network as a whole learns of every network connected to every router in that network, and every possible path to take to get from one network to the other. The crux in the matter is how the router determines which way is the "best" one to take, and this is where Route Costs and Distance Vectors come in to play. Every routing protocol takes a different approach to calculating the route cost or metric of a route. Distance vector protocols, such as RIP, looks at how many hops there are in a route, and calculates a metric from that, since fewer hops means faster processing since fewer routers have to forward the packet. This is quite old-school thinking, and dates from a time when routers were slow and bandwidth quite inconsequential. These days routers are quite fast, and the hop-count not that important. Newer protocols have been developed, and some use another approach called link-state. One such, OSPF, factor in a lot of different metrics, and are a lot more complex (OSPF factors in bandwidth and how it learned of a route for example). 

I agree with Ricky, getting on management VLAN and pinging the broadcast address, looking at your computers ARP table and see which MAC is a Zyxel MAC. You could run an application like NMAP, maybe even LAN Sweeper, that can scan your management VLAN and give you information about the hosts it can detect. If the switch has a trunk interface setup, plug your laptop into it and open wire shark, you'll see what VLANs, IPs and MACs are out there If you have DHCP on the management VLAN or any VLANs, take a look at leases and reservations. If nothing there, look at reserved space. 

I would suggest running VTPv3 which supports pvlans. That way all switches will have the same VLAN configuration (VLAN.dat file) added on them. Also, vtpv3 supports extended range vlans. Further having different pvlan per switch is not needed, especially since they are isolated. Think, 1 primary VLAN, 1 isolated VLAN and 1 VLAN per pvlan community. I have not analyzed your config but a quick skim over this looks correct. I'd just have the same pvlan numbers across all switches. 

I agree with Ricky Beam. You'll have to get a packet capture of the Firewall to see if you are receiving responses for a spoofed broadcast request not made by the SonicWall. Only then would we see if a Smurf / Fraggle attack is happening. I would check performance statistics and logs on the AP's (wireless) and the SonicWall Firewll. I'd get SNMP setup to look at bandwidth utilization. Start ruling things out. 

I would look at DHCP first. If I didn't see a lease or reservation (which I wouldn't expect to see), I would then use the scan tools for the reserved range of IPs in the DHCP scope. The fewer hosts you scan the faster the scan. I would also scan with an ssh username/password (default you said) and that makes me think that the snmp community is also set to "public". Which you could also scan for. I'd also scan for port 443 and 80, as it appears the management Web interface operates on these ports but I'd double check the documentation first and scan those ports. Happy hunting! 

What does your bandwidth utilization look like on the SonicWall when users report the time they experienced this issue? What's the SonicWall's bandwidth capability? Does the utilization supersede the capability? If you suspect a Smurf/Fraggle DDoS attack, configure the SonicWall to not respond to ICMP requests or broadcasts. Look in logs and packet captures to find the bogus broadcast replies. Configure SonicWall to not forward packets directed to a broadcast addresses. SNMP of SonicWall, look at CPU/RAM utilization. When it is high, is traffic being dropped? Setup Splunk free version to start capturing logs and have a look at what is happening. 

This post is older in age so I'm not sure if you are still experiencing this problem. I would like to see the documentation you are referring too regarding the portfast trunk command. The portfast trunk configuration should be applied to hosts that you are trunking with, for example an ESX host or a Load Balancer. For switch to switch, this configuration should not be there. There is a lot of information I would need to see to better understand the topology and what spanning-tree mode you are running in (PVST+, RPVST+ or MST). I suspect from what I've read you are running PVST+. I would like to first start with the output of show spanning-tree vlan x detail and a snippet of this TCN you are seeing. I would also like to see show run | i spanning. I suspect you may have a port(s) that is flapping and the TCN message should lead us directly to the culprit. So you have a VoIP phone plugged into a switchport that is configured switchport access vlan and computers/hosts plugged into other switchports with switchport access vlan ? Yeah you know you can set it up for switchport voice vlan. However being setup without the switchport voice vlan, I do not see this being an issue with TCN's. TCN's are generated when a port transitions from one state to another assuming you are not changing the priority values. 

I would also try two other methods: 1.) modify your ACL for the route-map, to have the same source as the IP you want to NAT them too. If we read left to right on the NAT rules it may not analyze this until after the translation occurs. 2.) try ip nat outside source static tcp... I'm not sure which one would work but it'd be good to see a debug like the following: