I'd drop GMail if I could, but I have not found a suitable alternative. Since GMail is a web app, what can I even check; how can I try to fix it? 

I've searched the net and the settings and I have not found anything that seems to do what I want. I have looked into changing the default theme/template and setting a default layout. The default theme/template seems to require that you click on the "Blank" in the start screen, and I can't seem to get the add-in from SKP to work. I guess it's not compatible, or Outlook 2013 doesn't do *.PPA files anymore. Is there a way to do what I want to do? I will be upgrading to PowerPoint 2016 soon, if that changes anything. Use Case I find it advantageous to use PowerPoint as a place to keep screenshots during tech support calls. This is my primary purpose in using PowerPoint, and only occasionally do I make presentations with it. However, if and when I do make presentations, i would still want to start with a blank canvas. 

Looking at the list, it just kind of seems numerically excessive, until you get to the bottom and they want you to open 80 and 443. Several forum posts also regurgitate these numbers. 80 and 443 imply that the game is running a web server behind each users firewall O.O Most ISPs aren't going to let residential customers run servers on port 80 and 443 either. LoL has servers of its own. The only reason you should have to open and forward ports is to run your own server, or for something like a game, enable P2P access. I thought the range of ports was kind of high, but then when I saw they wanted 80 and 443 open, it occurred to me that this list might be a composite of incoming and outgoing connections. Networking-muggles certainly might not notice or care about incoming and outgoing variations of ports, and which side is using an ephemeral port vs a well known port. I also found someone on Sophos also talking about how excessive these ports are, but in the end I think they just opened them up. When there is a firewall issue, the application just does not work. I can't run it yet, but from the descriptions I've seen, the problems they attribute to port forwarding are not actual port forwarding issues. "Slow connection" is not a port forwarding issue. "Not working at all" would be a port forwarding issue. Why do they list an excessive number of required ports? What ports are actually required for this game? 

I have a Chromecast audio and the Google Home app now requires location access and for you to log in. I don't want to give it either, and therefore it does not help me set up the device. There is no way to bypass the requirements, unlike previous versions. I can't think of a reason to require both of them, save to send back to Google HQ for analysis. Is there some other method I can use to set up the Chromecast? This isn't an android or iOS specific question, but those are the usual platforms to use the chromecast, followed up by the PC. If this doesn't fit SuperUser, I can move it. 

There is no built-in rollback or downgrade function within Firefox. In fact, on their support page for the subject, they strongly insist that you do not roll back. I rolled back a longstanding, many times upgraded, Firefox 57 to the specific version and bit depth below. I did not manually uninstall Firefox, but was prepared for things to go sideways. YMMV. If you know better and don't want to heed their warnings, then do these steps: 

I mocked this up on a Windows 7 machine, and as you can see below, I don't get a mouseover at all. This is an example of the desired behavior. You can't see the cursor, but you can see the tooltip (I usually turn that off though). Tooltips pop up where the mouse cursor is. 

I was sure I turned it off, but with a option of only "not now", that's clearly a tell that Microsoft will nag you to death until they turn it on themselves, or you acquiesce to their request and turn it on. I would like to turn it off, permanently turn it off, prevent it from ever turning itself on again, if possible remove the binaries behind such nonsense, and do so across all apps/programs within the office suite. It would be awesome if I could do this via a regedit or PowerShell script too. I have searched the net and SuperUser.com without finding anything relevant. PS I did find another similar post, but they didn't offer a solution either. 

I came across this SO question and would like to try to use the cmdlet from PSCX (link). However, there is documentation about any of the cmdlets (including what's in the package) online whatsoever (quite an impressive feat actually), and even the developer tells someone to use the man page command (in the comments). The problem is that the man page breaks Power Shell somehow. I'm trying to use the -detailed option and get stuck with this: 

Like most of Microsoft's new features, I find them annoying and I find that they get in my way. The latest one to annoy me is the Office 365 "Design ideas" popup in PowerPoint. This sidebar pops up only under certain circumstances, so it rearranges the GUI, interrupting my work. I have not enumerated all the circumstances, but pasting a pic from the clipboard makes it pop up, while creating a new slide does not. 

I have come across some registry edits/hacks I'd like to make. however, it appears that you have to take control of some registry keys before you can make the edit. In the articles, this is a manual process, though VG does go into some other options. However, I'd like to be able to run 1 .reg file to accomplish 1 task, including taking ownership of the registry key I am trying to modify or add. Is that possible? If that's not possible, then how likely is it that I can drop out to Power Shell to perform the take ownership and registry key? I know Power Shell can do the latter, but I'm not sure about the former. In this case, have 1 script file is my goal, even if it isn't a .reg script, but a Power Shell one. 

I was not able to make any of the suggested Windows utilities work for me to remove "?" and "*" characters from a filename. I plugged the drive into a Raspberry Pi and changed the filenames. 

This is an upstream problem. The fact that your router says is the giveaway. Finding out more info or getting it resolved is going to be a much more tricky beast. You could have a hardware problem, a ISP problem, or maybe some attackers are trying to pwn your modem/router. Or it could be "sunspots", or even actual sunspots. Hardware Start with the basics and make sure that your power adapter is good, you have a surge protector, your cables are in good working order, etc. This includes the incoming cable from your ISP, and may go outside. You may want to get your ISP to inspect the cable from their end to your modem. You didn't specify your ISP type. If you have a cable modem, you can access signal strength info and other diagnostic information from the web page built into the modem DSL reports has a page that walk you through the process. If you own your own modem, do you have the latest version? DOCIS 3 is rolling out, and your ISP may not like your DOCISS 2 modem. I'm sure there is a comparison for DSL too. ISP If you have a crappy ISP, like most of us, they will just tell you to reboot some stuff and then by that time they may reboot some stuff on their end and things will be working again. Oftentimes, the outage or problem will go away by the time you get to talk to a real person. However, if you're hitting a data cap, they think you are doing something they don't want you to (Video consumption, VPN usage, BitTorrent, etc), they may be doing underhanded things to get you to stop or to get your attention. Attackers There is router malware: 

I have a straightforward task that I'd like to do concurrently. I'd like a server to push out a file to a bunch of endpoints and then send a command. The server is only coincidentally a server OS; I'm working with embedded devices and the server pushes information to them. The endpoints are not Windows machines. The manufacturer of the endpoints has a series of Power Shell modules to do what I want. It can even do the task I want concurrently, however it's limited to 32 at a time. I have over 100 endpoints. The file I need to send is ~400mb, so it takes a while. It takes longer for the endpoint to process the file than to send it. I've come across several different technologies in Power Shell to allow for concurrency. Jobs, runspaces, and worflows. I started with workflows because they have , which seems really easy to wrap my head around. However, it seems that it's difficult to get input into any of these concurrent methodologies, and also difficult to get output out. My script is not currently working, and you can see the error below. I'm thinking that there's some kind of syntax or reference error that I need to overcome. 

Firefox has for a long time required multiple presses of the enter key to save a file. I would like to change that to be a single enter key press always automatically acts in a deterministic manner to actuate the save button. I'm sure this change by Firefox is one of many that Mozilla has implemented to protect users from themselves (Another thread explaining that same setting in Firefox). Obviously, I don't think I need to be protected from myself so I want to find whatever setting in about:config is responsible for this and turn it off. Sometimes when I am downloading a file, I want to rename it, so when I am done typing in the new filename, I like to hit enter. Sometimes that enter clicks on the "save" button, sometimes I have to press enter up to 4 times. Sometimes it doesn't matter how many times you press enter, it doesn't ever save the file. Waaaaaay back in the day, this was the default for all sorts of programs. It used to be the default way Firefox behaved too. I do have several extensions to Firefox, as well as DirectFolders, but I have encountered this problem before using most of those softwares. 

I use VMWare most often, and I just set the guest OS's network card to be bridged to the Host network. The Guest doesn't know or care about the hardware layer in this case; VMWare handles the networking. Based on a comment above, it's going to be similar in other VM products. 

Office 2013 Windows 7 Pro 64 bit Dell 6530 w/ Intel + nVidia 4000 graphics Office applications will regularly cause bleed through with the few pixels around their window and show white/black bars on other windows above them. I think there's supposed to be some kind of fade effect outside the windows, and that's the root cause. It seems that only the verticals do this. This effect happens over time, and in Word, Excel, and Outlook. Probably PowerPoint too, but I don't use it that often. An example: I have an Outlook find window behind Firefox. At some point, there will be a white or black bar that lines up with the side of the find window that removes useful information from Firefox. Here's a screenshot of the bars bleeding through Firefox. I thought this was a Z buffer issue in the video card drivers, or a problem with certain monitors, but I've updated drivers, and I see it on all the monitors (I think). Any ideas what I can look at to troubleshoot this? Have you seen or heard of this problem? I can't seem to find anything about it online.