You can either make a seperate batch file or just tag it onto the end of the previous. Also, in your shortcut, make sure to go to the advanced button in the general tab and check . Otherwise, it'll just throw access denied errors. 

This puts each match into the hold buffer (the ). Then, after it reads the entire file, it reads the hold buffer (the ) and prints only the last line (the ). I think this could further be optimized if you could figure out how to get it to really replace the entire buffer on each mach but I left fixing that as an exercise for you. That will also allow you to get rid of the part. 

According to $URL$ the latest version of Firefox for OSX is v32. You might want to get the latest version. That is probably why it is suggesting that you update. 

You don't have to do anything you don't want to do. This issue is a feature which has been asked for many times but it is marked as wontfix. This is mandatory because it prevents websites from mimicking your desktop in order to snoop your passwords. I strongly believe that a better solution to this will come along soon (such as a highlight around the border instead of an annoying popup but until then Chrome users are stuck with it. 

If either File A or File B are not found, that error is reported on screen and the process stops. Because the host file is a system file it will cause UAC to popup a message asking if you want to allow this. To change that dialog into a password dialog follow this guide: $URL$ 

Technically, your hardware is slightly safer when you use some of these devices but the truth is they don't work as well as a little common electronical sense does. They also fail when not used properly (which includes doing exactly what I'm about to tell you to do). It is FAR more important to not have a static build up in the first place than having a cheap wire attached to your wrist. It is REALLY simple to avoid any problems by just touching the metal structure of your case before messing with the hardware. If the power cable is plugged in that is an extra bonus because the ground wire on your PSU is also connected to the case metal (which you may have noticed if you've ever touched a PC case and been shocked). While this is generally all that is needed, it doesn't hurt to avoid touching any exposed metal on your boards (grab them by the PCB material as much as possible). This is a good tip but in reality there is very little exposed metal on most boards because they are painted with enamel before leaving the factory. As long as you aren't standing on a wool blanket while moonwalking that will be plenty to protect your hardware. Repeat this every few minutes while working just to be on the safe side and you'll be set and able to tackle any hardware issue like a pro (even while roughing it). Anyone who says differently really has very little experience. The reason this isn't dangerous in most cases is because static electricity is very high voltage but at a very tiny current. I keep saying 'almost' because there IS one piece of hardware which CAN be destroyed with high voltage at low current and that is RAM. When you handle RAM never touch the metal contact points where it plugs into the board. That is really the only vulnerable spot on a standard PC. If you can avoid that you are golden. This is coming from someone whom had worked as a PC tech for nearly a decade and has been a computer geek for much much longer and fixed countless machines...(I mean myself). 

If you do and it still isn't creating a Thumbs.db file then that is because these files aren't supported by windows natively. They just have an image preview handler and the preview images are being handled by an explorer extension (which would never use the MS Thumbs.db file). If it is an extension and it is caching the previews it isn't saving the cached info in Thumbs.db. 

Answer 1 Private Bytes refer to the amount of memory that the process executable has asked for - not necessarily the amount it is actually using. They are "private" because they (usually) exclude memory-mapped files (i.e. shared DLLs). But - here's the catch - they don't necessarily exclude memory allocated by those files. There is no way to tell whether a change in private bytes was due to the executable itself, or due to a linked library. Private bytes are also not exclusively physical memory; they can be paged to disk or in the standby page list (i.e. no longer in use, but not paged yet either). Working Set refers to the total physical memory (RAM) used by the process. However, unlike private bytes, this also includes memory-mapped files and various other resources, so it's an even less accurate measurement than the private bytes. This is the same value that gets reported in Task Manager's "Mem Usage" and has been the source of endless amounts of confusion in recent years. Memory in the Working Set is "physical" in the sense that it can be addressed without a page fault; however, the standby page list is also still physically in memory but not reported in the Working Set, and this is why you might see the "Mem Usage" suddenly drop when you minimize an application. Virtual Bytes are the total virtual address space occupied by the entire process. This is like the working set, in the sense that it includes memory-mapped files (shared DLLs), but it also includes data in the standby list and data that has already been paged out and is sitting in a pagefile on disk somewhere. The total virtual bytes used by every process on a system under heavy load will add up to significantly more memory than the machine actually has. So the relationships are: 

Replace with the actual IP that the machine uses, replace both instances with the name you want to call that PC and replace with the actual domain used at work. 

Why bother with the alias? I believe it would be fine to just make a short script which sources your script and then calls : 

Go to editor (select on the dropdown to the right of it). In the subsequent dialog select the option in the dropdown control. Then look for the and options. Double click them to add them to the . 

Go to your folder options and make sure you have the circled items on this image selected as they are in the image. 

Press OK once everything looks good. At this point, you can remove the original PNG link that was imported into the file. If you'd rather have this be PNG format, just export it as a PNG again. 

I probably shouldn't even tell you this because it's almost surely not what you really want to do. You probably want to use a program which takes more abstract ideas like circles and text and handles the dirty work for you. That being said, there is an most correct answer to this question so I may as well tell you it. Most printers support a language called PCL (which stands for printer control language); including yours. This is as low level as you're going to be able to get without reverse engineering your printer drivers. You'll want to look at the HP specific implementation of this language to be sure you're using it as HP intended. As I was typing this you've updated your post to ask for sounds on the printer. PCL isn't going to help you with that. I'm going to post anyway in case others can use this. 

The obvious answer is to use screencast software. These all require a network connection. Screencasting is actually a small part of a larger industry which includes all video conferencing software\hardware. You will find that most of these products will also do what you need. Another possibility is to use VNC software for this (this link mixes them in with RDP software so be careful to choose the correct items). These programs aren't specifically meant for this purpose though and may waste a lot of resources. These will also require a network connection. Without using the network you have a few options which I can think of: 

Assuming that they are all currently setup to work correctly while logged in you can do this to enable the screensaver while not logged in. To change the logon screensaver follow the MSDN guide: Change the logon screen saver 

You are going to want to use regular expressions for this. Because you've specified BATCH as your preferred scripting language we'll need to add that functionality. There are several ways we could accomplish this but I like this version written by someone named Dave Benham at dostips.com because it uses only binaries which should already be on your machine: 

Don't do that, it's a horrible idea. If you want your screen permanently darker through hardware then get a very dark anti glare screen overlay. Don't try to re-engineer your monitor unless you plan to never use it again. 

You could get the Win 32 GNU packages (the automatic installer is best). This will include wget. That app makes this easier than Chrome: 

Also, you might try Jackcess for a command line MDB tool which'll work with any OS with JVM support. 

This happens when the task cannot be ran. Check your Error Logs to find more information on what's happening. Most likely, your path to the exe is incorrect or your permissions aren't right. Always test your tasks manually to ensure that this doesn't happen in the future.