Apparently it is. From multiple different posts around the internet, it appears that this is considered a video card that runs hot. Don't worry, there are a bunch of different video cards that are known to run hot. Since this is a professional grade card, it apparently is configured to run quiet, as opposed to having the fan run loud and cool better. You may be able to use MSI Afterburner or EVGA Precision or any other overclocking/underclocking software suite to crank the fan up. Some have had luck doing it this way. You may also have to remove the heat sink, and repaste the processor. You may also shave a couple of degrees by adjusting the position of the heat sink. One screw having been overtightened can make the heat sink sit improperly on the processor... which can result in temps a little higher than expected. However.... load temps of 70-80c are expected for this card. 

To be clear. You connected the DELL U2312HM to a completely different computer. This means that the only common element between the two computers was the monitor, correct? The other computer used a different video card, motherboard, etc. If this is true, then the issue is with the monitor. It is not a problem that can be completely fixed with software or video card settings. Yes, you have found some limited partial success in altering settings, but as you describe, the problem still persists to some degree. What does this mean? The monitor may have vertical sync issues, and most likely needs to be repaired and/or replaced. It would be nice to be able to repair it, but sadly, the cost of repairing the monitor yourself (AKA replacing the LCD panel) would most likely match or exceed the cost of replacing the monitor. 

If you examine the typical usage, or expected usage scenario, you actually can determine the general protocol for how to treat your battery. In general, a laptop owner will plug in their laptop if they are near an outlet, and use it while it is connected to a wall outlet for the duration of their session. They do not want to be bothered with removing their battery, or connecting/disconnecting from the wall outlet at regular intervals. In more extreme cases, if a laptop battery has ever proven to have an issue with this type of usage (getting excessively hot and/or exploding while the laptop was plugged in) it was recalled as being defective. So, this tells you first of all, that allowing the battery to maintain a full charge for an unlimited amount of time is not a bad thing for maintaining a healthy battery. We move on to looking at general laptop usage off a power grid. Most people actually don't open their laptop and in a single session drain their battery until the laptop shuts off. Most people actually use their laptop on the battery for a few minutes, and then turn it off. They will use it a few more times for sessions of varying length, get the warning that the battery is low, and then plug it in to charge. This is not to say that some people don't use their laptops in a single session until that warning. Of course some do. Just that most don't. Almost everyone will see that warning of a low battery... a 15% to 5% remaining charge left warning before they seek a power outlet. Which means that a large number of laptop users... one could say a Majority of laptop users will use their laptops on battery until it is drained before they charge it again. Here is what most people miss. It's not so much the temperature of the battery that will reduce it's life. It is the number of charge cycles. The more times the battery is charged, the shorter the amount of time it will provide a full charge for. By charge cycles, I don't mean the number of times it has received a micro-charge... sitting there topping off constantly. I mean, the number of times it has been drained significantly, and then recharged. For example. I have a 2004 Toshiba Satellite A75 that is a power hungry monster (120 watt adapter). Two fans, 3.33ghz P4 HT processor. So, with the battery that came with the unit, I would see around 2 to 2.5 hours of usability on the battery when new. I still have the original battery, and I can get just under 2 hours of use out of it. Why, after 8 years does this battery still function relatively well? Because the laptop BARELY ever gets used on the battery. The battery sits in the laptop, and the laptop sits on the counter plugged in all the time. If you have an actual UPS.. a battery backup system, it will retain the ability to run a system on battery for a longer period of time if you don't actually end up using it.... as opposed to if you have to use it every week due to power outages. If you have a home alarm system that has a battery to maintain it, that battery will last 4-5 years if you don't have frequent power outages, but might only last 2 years if you have a large number of storms that kill power for hours at a time. It's all about the charge cycles. If you want to extend the battery life... meaning if you want to avoid having to go out and purchase a new battery, then actually not using the battery is the way to go. Leaving it in the laptop and just not using it on battery power will give you the longest usability life span possible. That's not entirely feasible though if you want or need to use the laptop on battery power. Here is a suggestion. Purchase a second battery, and purchase an external battery charger like this one. Why? Depending on the external battery charger, it will either spend less time charging while on the external charger (which will mean it will be getting warmer for a shorter period of time) or if it is a trickle-type charger, it won't get as warm while charging. Then, you can use the second battery while you are charging the first. Should you be concerned with the temperature of the battery while it is charging? No. But, this solution would alleviate those concerns. Otherwise, just use the laptop as you have described. 

... so not all Socket G can use either. Getting the exact specifications from Dell based on your service tag would be the way to find out which yours has and can use. 

As has been pointed out in the question you linked to, one of the diagnostic steps is to boot the computer without any RAM whatsoever. Provided you have a system speaker connected, you should hear continual beeping in some regular pattern. This will indicate the board is working to the degree that it detects that there is no RAM present. If your motherboard is good, there is a system speaker, the processor is good, the processor is sitting in the socket properly with no bent pins, the heat sink is properly mounted over the processor, and the power supply is good, then you would hear the diagnostic beeps. Notice, I said nothing about requiring a hard drive, or optical drive, or video card, or even having it connected to a monitor. You are simply connecting the basics, and attempting to force the motherboard to behave in a predictable manner. If you do not hear any beeps... then one of those things is bad/missing. It might be a bad motherboard. It might be a bad processor. It might be a bad power supply. It might be as simple as the heat sink not sitting on the processor properly. Why would you attempt to force the motherboard to tell you that there is no RAM present? Because you need so little in the way of components to test that, and it presents you with a very short list of things that might be bad. Also, if you get the diagnostic beeps you expect, then you can progress forward from there. So, that's the first thing you should do. How do you test your power supply? Without a PSU tester, you would need another computer to use it in, or another power supply to use in place of it, or a multimeter and a small wiring diagram showing you what wires should produce what voltage (and what two connections to short to make the PSU power on. You CANNOT assume that since the fan kicks on, that the PSU is working the way it should. How do you test your processor? That's a little more specific. You would need another motherboard/computer that you KNOW works to put the chip in. That... or an expensive processor tester that not many people (or even repair shops) have. How do you test the motherboard? Again... that's pretty specific. You would need another processor that is made for the same socket. So... out of all those things, and how you would test whether or not they are working properly... testing for the presence of RAM is quite easy to do.