Packet tracer is a simulation for Network academy not a IOS emulator (like say GNS3) if there is a conflict between the doc and packet tracer, packet tracer looses. If you read further in the documentation a LOT of things have to match for an etherchannel bundle can form and link speed is one of them. A corner case MAY be etherchannel autonegotated ports that end up at different speeds, but etherchannel will react to dynamic changes and drop ports out of the etherchannel so I don't think that will work. Nor do you want it to as with non nexus hardware the load balance is power of 2 (3 ports will result in 1 of them getting 50% of the traffic) and there is no variable load balancing (a gig port gets 2x traffic of say 5 100 meg ports) 

I had this issue. You did not indicate of you have a data center or not. Making the assumption that inter remote site traffic is manageable, in your data centers you allow prefixes to be advertied between the two SP clouds using your data centers as trasits. It is true that remote site to remote side will take the hop through your data centers but there is not much to do. I am also assuming that you will attach your data centers to both providers first, then migrate remote sites the remove your data centers form the old ISP. This will happen by default. If you do not flash cut your remote sites (both providers are connected for a time) use a filter list in BGP to block transit at the remote sites. If you are using BGP as your routing protocol PE to CE then this will happen almost by default, if not please indicate how you are routing PE to CE. 

Also if you are using DHCP make sure to change the DHCP scope to match your new subnet. Also make sure to change the default gateway and subnet mask on EVERYTHING on the subnet (printers, faxes etc). 

You want to implement NIC teaming on the server. Depending on the server and OS there are drivers assoicated with the NICs, or if you run windows 2012 that feature is built into the OS. There may be other OSes that support NIC teaming (I know esx does) but I am not familiar with ,NIX. Or you can try to 'dual home' the server that is give each NIC its own IP address and have the default gateway point out both switches. 

Echo is caused by electrical interactions (like headsets) nothing in the IP part of the environment has anything to do with echo. In my environment headsets are the most common cause of echo. 

If you are a full on windows shop you can run IPSEC between almost all the computers, this is done in group policy, but the planning is complex because you cant encrypt util you have logged on (DHCP cannot be encrypted). Not for the faint of heart and no one really is all Microsoft. 

The TX-Ring is the hardware interface queue and is FIFO. QOS does NOT begin to operate in a router until the TX-Ring is full. The tradeoff is a small TX-Ring causes QoS to cut in quicker (good when you want to use LLQ for VoIP) at the cost of CPU, a large TX-Ring uses less cpu (don't need to service the queue as much) but will increase jitter (remember that the queue is Fifo) for voip applications. This is an important VoIP tuning knob on the older cisco routers for the above reasons. It does not impact drops because TX-Ring only exists in routers and when the tx ring is full traffic is queued in router memory. 

The point of all this is that DHCP redundancy is 80% a DHCP server issue, you can do a split scope approach, windows 2012 lets you have active and standby with replication without clustering. We just have daily backups (we use 7 day leases) and then restore to another box or VM. Check what you DHCP server software provides, the helper address is really the least of your worries 

I am guessing you have a /24 given to you by your ISP, you can divide that address space up into several Vlans with no problem, but if you create extra /24 Vlans you either have to get the address space from the provider or if it is your address space ensure that the provider side has static routes configured and redistributed in order to reach you. As was said above almost on one uses multiple addresses spaces on the same VLAN unless you are doing something like a DHCP scope migration. You might be thinking of publically routeable vs private addresses spaces but your question did not detail that. In addition you would need static routes on your WAN device pointing to your switch, you only need the default route on your HP switch. 

the management interface is in its own vrf, so in fact it can have 2 default routes one for the management adapter (vrf management) and if you enable SVIs you can put a default route in the default context. Also you have to ping from the box in the management context. vrf context management ip route 0.0.0.0/0 10.2.1.1 interface mgmt0 ip address 10.2.7.50/16 ping 10.2.1.1 vrf management See this $URL$ 

If your load balancer supports it Direct Server Return would also do what you want. It needs to be supported by your load balancer and there are some operating system concerns. It involves putting 'loopback' interfaces in each server that all have the IP address of the VIP, the load balancer while having the real server addresses only use the MAC address of the real server to forward the packet, since server has the loopback interface with the VIP in it, the server accepts the packet. You need to consult the doc of the specific LB vendor and your server teams have to be able to manage the virtual adapter (we do not use this feature because of we did not think our automated server provisioning could manage an MS loopback adapter. But this does not use NAT in the LB and you don't have to do PBR. 

I use 2 ISPs and my agreement with them is they will not take less than a /24 so I can divide my address space any way I want as long as my prefixes are long than /24, so I don't think you need (or want to change the registration) just advertise 1 /24 to ISP A and the other to ISP B. Now the ISPs may be filtering only on the prefix you expect to send so you need to check with the ISPs on their route policy. But this assumes that you really own the /23 space directly form the registry not from a ISP. 

Are the sources using the same multicast address. If not make sure IGMP snooping is enabled on the switch. Private Vlans would prevent the servers from seeing each other even for unicast. If all the sources are using the same multicast address IGMP snooping would still work as long as the servers only transmit, but I am fuzzy. 

I have looked at many traces and have never see an arp with all 0s. RFC 826 says Ethernet is all 1s. I would assume the blog is not correct or some sort of corner case 

Vlans will allow you to have 4 networks that do not talk to each other without (usually) going though a L3 devices. You need 1 IP address space per VLAN If you want a single connection to the L3 device you use trunking, that allows the 4 vlans to use a single wire (don't forget you need to reserve an uplink port for this. Etherchannel allows multiple links to look like 1 link to spanning tree, so if 1 link fails traffic just flows. As to internal hardware, does not matter in 99% of the cases on low end hardware, there are some platforms that only allow etherchannels on the same parts of the switch. 

The other option is to use the second physical interface as a second subnet and let eigrp from a second neighbor relationship. If the speeds are the same you can do equal cost load balancing. Finally 2 separate L3 links are easier to troubleshoot than a port channel and you don't have to have the exact same hardware. Its a matter of style. I am assuming you are running eigrp between the switch and the router. If you are not then 2 static default routes will do the routing trick. 

If you take the default routes inject them into your IGP and you have a L3 switch between your firewalls and your ISP routers then you will CEF load balance (src-dest-port). If you don't have an L3 switch then running GLBP if your routers are on the same subnet with your firewalls will distribute your outbound traffic. If you cant do that (or only have 1 firewall) then you have to content yourself that most of the time, inbound traffic is heaver than outbound traffic. Now as to inbound since it seems you said you have a single provider it is likely that they will use only 1 link for inbound because at some point BGP only passes 1 path (bestpath). Taking in the full routing table can help you with outbound as you will take the best path out BUT, since its the same ISP, I don't think you will see a lot of difference in the routes each side sends you. 

Ok then just put both subnet gateways under the same interface vlan 20 name lans ip address 192.168.20.1 255.255.255.0 ip address 199.199.20.1 255.255.255.0 you can communicate between the two subnets but do not need to set up trunking to servers or divide ports between vlans 

unless you have a very small network you have to run WINS anyway as NETBUI (the non IP NetBIOS is a L2 protocol only. You could extend this over a VPN by using (SRB) source route bridging (it puts the L2 protocol in a special tunnel) and then run it over a VPN. Or if you build your VPN by encrypting a GRE tunnel (DMVPN) does this, or use an GRE tunnel and IPSEC transport mode that will also work, based on your statement that the network is the same subnet GRE with IPSEC transport mode will work. 

I would suggest the right answer is it depends on the topology of the network. OSPF requires area boundaries to do summarization, if you are doing a green field network or your topology is condusive to drawing areas out then by all means use it. If your network requires spokes to connect to multiple hubs, then OSPF is harder to do, when I had this requirement on my frame relay network I migrated remote sites to BGP. I wanted to use EIGRP and stub routers but cisco mentioned that more resources were being spent on BGP-OSPF interoperability vs EIGRP-OSPF interoperability so I went BGP on that basis. Another way to put it is that EIGRP with its stub routers and the ability to summarize wherever you want will scale better in a 'messy' topology. 

It would arp for the IP address store it in the table and depending on implementation should delete the oldest entry. Impact to performance depends, if this is a uncommon occurance not much impact, but this is an attack vector so someone can send a lot of arps impacting processor utilization 

Async routing does not matter IF both links are the same from a bandwidth/latency/drops etc. It would be that 1 link is not as good as the other and the app never used it and now it does. Also if you are say redistribute into OSPF with E2 then both links will not include costs to get to them inside the campus so also consider the location relative to the location of the 2 links are they equidistant 

As said above switchport set the port to be layer 2, you assign a vlan to it and then need an SVI to configure L3 for ip connnectivity. If you do no switchport the port is layer 3 and you place an IP address directly on the port. I am guessing you want a static default route between the switch and the firewall. Dont forget you need routes in the firewall pointing back to the subnets you have configured in the switch