However I couldn't find anything about receptacle orientation and, in practice, not all receptacles are marked with the symbol. Perhaps you would like a flipper plug 

The command in a Command Prompt window will show a list of listening programs and outgoing connections 

The NTP protocol allows each computer to calculate the effect of network latency (the time a timstamped packet takes to get from one computer to another) as well as any difference in clock time. 

That depends entirely on what facilities the specific device has been explicitly designed to provide. You don't mention a specific device so the general answer is "mostly not". 

GVim on Windows has a normal windows File Open dialogue that shows navigable folders. In any Vim you should be able to use for a text mode equivalent that allows you to navigate folders. If (as I suspect) this doesn't answer your question, please update your question to explain BBEdit's feature in more detail for those of us unfamiliar with BBEdit. 

Note the - this stylesheet only applies when printing, not when viewing. If your HTML is all formatted in a similar way, you might do this for thousands of html files in a single command with a simplistic pattern matching edit 

Because you don't ping an interface you ping an IP-address. Your operating system works out which interface is the most appropriate one to use based on the target IP-address. If the target IP-address is your own, the most appropriate interface to use is the loopback interface as it has the lowest overheads. 

Feed the result to another by using backticks or equivalent $(). If you want to keep the intermediate list, use 

Update: Your diagram doesn't make it clear whether your WRK54G is linked to the main router using the WRK54G's WAN port of one of it's LAN ports. In the former case it is routing IP, in the latter case it is switching Ethernet. In the former case, Desktop1's default gateway would have the IP-address of the WRK54G. In the latter case, it's configuration doesn't really matter. It's probably sending some network traffic, so an on Desktop1 will reveal it's IP-address. Worst case, (assuming the install CD-ROM is missing or can't be used to communicate with the WRK54G) use something like nmap or ping every IP-address in range. 

expects to be given a list of filenames as command line arguments. So far as I know, it cannot be used to read an anonymous pipeline (what would it store as filename and file-metadata?) 

So look at how you invoke PuTTY, is it by clicking a desktop icon? Does that icon have properties (Alt + Enter) with extra parameters in Target? etc etc. 

Did you choose a font for vim that contains all the Cyrillic characters and is mono-spaced? For example "Courier New (Cyrillic)" There's some good advice at nabble 

Addendum Telnet is great for interactive exploration of arbitrary text-based TCP protocols (such as SMTP, WHOIS etc) but it isn't really good for scripting try instead 

It is clear from the final PDF image that Quark has substituted Courier for the missing fonts but has applied the letter-positioning from the EPS that would have been appropriate for Univers-Condensed. One solution is to purchase and install Univers-Condensed and Univers-CondensedBold on the Mac where the Quark project is being output to PDF. Another solution would be to go back to the application that produced the EPS that has been placed in this project and reproduce that EPS but force it to embed font (used subsets) into the EPS, then reimport that EPS into the final project before producing the final print-ready PDF. 

A WAP is like an Ethernet hub in that it provides the lower layers of networking below IP. Thereby providing a mechanism for delivering packets to multiple end-devices based on MAC address. 

Apart form it's main use in the Internet, another major use for it is segmenting private IP-address ranges large corporate networks RFC1519 says 

A browser can send cookies that are generic for your domain (e.g. for example.com as well as those for webapp.example.com) - it may be that these cookies were actually set by an unrelated site whose domain name ends with the same TLD. HTTP Proxies can add their own HTTP headers to responses and requests. They can also change existing HTTP headers. Either of these could push up the size of the HTTP header. The best way to find out what is happening is to record the HTTP request. This could be done by using a packet sniffer such as Wireshark or tcpdump at either the user's PC or at the server - I'd filter by the other end's IP-address. Obviously, if you can minimise the number and size of your cookies, this will help. Ideally cookies would just contain a reference-ID for state information stored at the server. 

A WPA2-PSK should be no more than 63 ASCII characters in length. If you are being asked to enter it in Hexadecimal, then 64 hexadecimal characters is 32 ASCII characters. On your model printer, there may be no easy way to enter this at the printer itself (some models apparently have touchscreens etc) However your printer does support automated setup such as 

When you redirect input, ssh client probably realizes input is not connected to a TTY and so decides TERM is inappropriate. 

You could invoke the job from a startup script in /etc/rc2.d which compares today's date with one saved in a file and then updates that file. 

You could just mount the new drive as your home directory (e.g at /home/mellowcandle). You'd first have to copy the existing contents elsewhere and, as you suggest, this would be better done when logged in as another user (then su to root). Alternatively, mount your new drive at /home2 say and then use or to change the home directory for your username - you don't need to make a softlink. 

There is no practical way for end-users to remove dead thrips/thunderflies from the inner layers of LCD screens where they like to get lost and die.