(which is the MSYS2-equivalent of running ), I get a permission denied (error ). Most likely because I'm not running in "Administrator mode". So one possible solution for my problem was a way to run a command as admin from within MSYS2/bash (without pompting the user for a password or "Are you sure?"-dialog). Other solutions would allow me to trigger a resync "otherwise". Ideas? 

I'm a happy user of thunderbind and and avid hater of HTML mails. So one of the first things i usually do when setting up a new account, is to switch the default composition method to "plain text". Unfortunately (for me), I also happen to use multiple email accounts and need to do a fair amount of testing (adding even more - albeit temporary - email accounts to my thunderbird). Now what really annoys me, is that i have to turn off HTML composing explicitely for each and every account that i use. What's making things worse, is that not even the account creation wizard allows me to specify my preferred composition method. So here's my questions: 

when an email-address is stored in thunderbird's address book, it uses the name stored there to display as the sender in the thread-pane, and ignores any value in the email. e.g. my address book has "John Doe ", which means that all emails with the header "From: Netochka Nezvanova (via J.Doe) " are displayed as being sent from "John Doe". i assume that this is to deface some kind of email forgery (e.g. "Bank of America " will not appear to be an official email), but i fail to see how it should work in practice. what's more, I do want to see the original values in the "From"-field. 

I iterate all files (which have an extension), then If file has ".png" extension, I evaluate whether the filename starts with "abc-" to exclude it. Please do a backup of your folder before testing. 

with the help of these labels, a labeled torrent will be moved to its corresponding directory when the download has finished. Its a tagging mechanism that the user could use at runtime to tag (then move) the current downloads: 

I heard that the recent Windows 10 Anniversary Update will come with a optional dark theme I would like to know whether this "Dark Theme" is really a theme, a theme that will affect the light resources of the user interface as the white Explorer's background too, or is just the same "hidden" theming feature seen in previoues Windows 10 versions that just will change to dark the Universal Apps and other minor things. Note: I'm not asking for 3rd party themes, please focus only on the question I did. 

The point is that the installer does not let you to decide which hidden components to install, and this way you can decide. For example I use this unattend.xml example, designed for Visual Studio 2013 Ultimate (for other version and/or edition is not compatible) which installs Visual Studio only with the required components to develop under VB.Net and C# with no unnecessary extra addons: 

So my question is: is there a free (as in Free/Libre/OpenSource Software) PDF reader (this rules out ) that allows for arbitrary and interactive zoom in/zoom out? 

if aptitude cannot find which has been in ubuntu since hardy (and never changed since then), you probably have broken your file. 

you don't need to add any repositories to your as already comes with any version of ubuntu since hardy. used to be the old name for the central package, and has been replaced by the package since oneric. finally, usually does a better job when it comes to resolving dependencies, so you might use it instead (and from the cmdline, the syntax is almost identical to that of ) if you don't have installed, do so by running 

the command has an field, that gives you the time since a given process has been started, in seconds. the following bash script will output the PIDs of processes that have been running for longer than 30 minutes. 

this will assign your machine an IP . obviously you should assign your server a valid IP for your subnet (the given configuration assumes that your DHCP-server gives out IP-addresses in the range). you should also make sure to not use an IP that the DHCP-server might give out. usually you can configure it, to e.g. only hand out IPs in a certain range (e.g. ). mak sure that your static IP is outside this range and does not collide with other devices (namely the router itself - most likely ; and the network&broadcast addresses & ) 

I am backing up my computer to usb hard drive. I moved many gigabytes except one folder. When I copy windows 8 says that file copy failed, that the file cannot be saved and I shall remove write protection. External drive is not protected because I can copy anything else. I opened file properties, security tab. There are four groups: authenticated users, system and admins have all access. Users could just read and execute. I fixed it (though I am admin) but I still cannot copy the file to the external drive. Interesting is that I can copy the file to different locating on the same hard disk. But I still cannot copy this copy as well. 

Two years old samsung laptop with Windows 8.1 64 bit halts without notice or taking low battery action. I realized that it happens when it shows some 55% battery limit. It dies suddenly and immediatelly. I wonder if 

I was using Debian Wheezy with Apache and I configured some paths in SSL to be protected by client certificate. 

I upgraded my virtual machine from Wheezy to Jessie using debian provided help. The last step was to install new kernel do I did. 

I took series of screenshots and I need to combine them into single picture. It contains very big excel sheet. I know that there is software for creating panorama picture from series of photos. The screenshots shall be much easier to combine, but I failed to find any software to achieve this effect. Google found just solutions for photos and if I try them they refuse to work on ordinary pictures. Any hint? Otherwise I will have to manipulate it by hand :-( 

I'm under Windows 10 x64, and my problem is that when I insert a removable device (a smartphone) a Bluetooth related shortcut is created inside the SendTo folder (at ) ...even if I remove that shortcut, next time will be created again, and again, and again ...always the same dumb behavior of Windows. That is one of the most annonying things that I can see, because I use custom shortcuts and I don't want to have an additional "Bluetooth" shortcut that I will never use, and also it increases x3 the width of the SendTo's contextmenu because the name of that damn shortcut is very more large (in my O.S language) than the other names of the other custom shortcuts I have in that folder. My question is simple, how I could prevent Windows from creating the Bluetooth shortcut anymore?. Please note that if the solution implies group policies usage, then I need the exact registry value that is set when applying that policy to be able reproduce the policy via regedit, instead of using the group policy manager user-interface. 

However, I'm not sure how to do it neither if that is really what I need. I tried to add a "ghost" item on the DesktopBackground registry key trying to override the original item that I have on Directory\Background key, but the item still shown when I do right-click on the desktop background: 

I have a Win10/MSYS2 installation on a VM. The VM is mostly "suspended" (paused via the hypervisor). So when the VM is unpaused it has the wrong time (from before the pause). The idea is to run a script directly after unpause, that syncs the local time to an NTP-server. I need to launch that script via ssh (into a bash-session), and it must run without any interaction. Now when I run 

I'm working with largish PDFs (e.g. 17523x2383 dots @ 72dpi), where i need to zoom out (to see the overall picture and to navigate) and to zoom in (to read labels on the nodes). The PDFs are simple graphs (generated from ) containing mostly text, text-boxes and lines, andthe occasional thumbnail image. The only thing special about them is there size. I don't think, that the graphics are complicated to render, e.g. using the xdot.py program to visualize the graphs (before they are rendered into a PDF) is blindingly fast, so I can scroll and zoom arbitrarily in realtime. Unfortunately, it seems that all all PDF readers (that I have tried) have problems with such formats. Afaict, I require the the following features: - fast renderer (so it can be used interactively) - zoom in to (ideally unlimited) - zoom out to (ideally unlimited) - when zooming, keep focus - minimal dependences (i'm running xfce4; i'd rather not pull in half of kde or gnome just to display a PDF) - free software (FLOSS) These are the readers that i've tried: 

After doing a lot of researchs and trying to find the root of the problem by testing related solutions, I've fixed my issue with this registry script that fixes the .lnk file association: Note: Its for Windows 8/8.1 

Please be aware that "is turned off" is not the same as "is disconnected". You are describing the normal behavior of Windows, it has nothing strange, if you have selected a PC-screen as primary device and your current energy plan or you manually turn off the screen, then that device will still be the primary device since it is not disconnected from power, it can be turned On again. 

I'm not any expert about this kind of problem, but check for IsMyLcdOK application which has some useful tests that maybe can revive a dead pixel. 

Download and install AviSynth $URL$ Download an VHS effect for AviSynth. $URL$ Source: $URL$ Write your AviSynth script, just a plain text file with name 'Script.avs'. 

Problem The problem I have is that Windows seems to treat the desktop background in the same way as a directory background, so my custom contextmenu item is visible when I do right-click on the desktop background: I don't like this behavior, because this contextmenu item isn't useful when accesible from the desktop background, it only increases the size of the desktop contextmenu in general. 

I want to show above task bar its start and finish date. I found that I need to create a custom field. There is a nice tutorial: $URL$ Unfortunatelly when I enter any formula and select my custom field in task bar text it does not display anything. If I select predefined fields the text is shown. 

Ok, that is weird. I found this topic, where somebody had a problem when a certificate was not imported. I checked it and it was my case as well. The certificate disappeared from my chrome. 

I am migrating my SVN repository to Git (BitBucket) using this tutorial. But I have not used standard SVN layout so it seems to be little problematic. My SVN repo is simple copy of Android project. 

I found an attlassian issue #2 from 2014 with a reequest to add Git 2.0 compatibility. It has 22 votes and it is not resolved yet. There was a hint to use the parameter. 

I can see that points to . I run twice but still says Linux version 3.2.0-4-amd64, though I cannot find any suck kernel on my disk. I did not get it. 

I just want to share that I reinstalled the computer completely to Windows 8.1 and it works fine again. So the solution was windows reinstallation. I spent much more time with attempts to fix the issue than I did with data backup and reinstallation. If you encounter this issue as well try to wipe your windows and install them from scratch. 

In the resulting User Accounts dialog, select your user account first and then uncheck the option labelled Users must enter a user name and password to use this computer. Click Apply button to see Automatically sign in box. 

Question How I could disable my contextmenu item from still appearing on the contextmenu of the desktop background?. Please note that its a simple contextmenu item manually added via registry, I don't pretend to rework the implementation via shell extension. 

This batch file could help you. It finds all the "Drawings" subfolders, it tokenizes the parts of the directory paths to construct the new directory struct, then copies each found directory with subdirectories using RoboCopy tool. VERY IMPORTANT: 

EDIT: Now I've read about the switch, but that is what I need? I want to save the full WIM file as is, not only a single image index. 

So, for me and my reasons, having a 1 visible px. border is a very big problem that I'm facing every day using Windows 10, I'm really ...desperately jaded. I won't rollback to a previous Windows version because I gain more by using Windows 10 O.S and its performance advantages, however the 1 px. border is the most horrible disadvantage of this O.S, I would like to feel happy by having a real window border like in previous Windows versions, this means a border image that fills the entire border width (like the images of the comparison I published above in the question introduction), I don't want to have a 8 px. border in which only 1 px. is visible, that is crazy, I don't know in what the hell were thinking the devs. who designed Windows 10, if you will give the name "Windows" to your own O.S, then try to design and implement a real "window" appearance and beahavior, then avoid implementing invisible window resize handles for the mother of God!!. QUESTION 

I have a Genius KB 8000x wireless keyboard. It used to work well for months until last week when it occurs that some key press is multiplied. Eg I press a space and twenty spaces are added. Or I press a backspace and several words are deleted. It happens randomly. Sometimes it helps to move a dongle to different USB port for a while. I would think it is a hw problem of the keyboard. But I had similar problems with cheaper wireless keyboard of different vendor which I threw away. And the problem is back. Is this a problem of Windows 10? Or am I unlucky with amalfuncting device? 

I use a Fujitsu laptop Lifebook S762 with a full keyboard without numeric keypad. When I press a Fn key which a numlock some standard keys start to work like part of the numeric keyboard. E.g. when I press J, the keyboard enters 1, K will enter 2 and so on. I use a docking station with attached standard USB keyboard. When I attach the notebook, I turn the numlock on so I can use its numeric keyboard. But this state is preserved when I unplug the notebook from the docking station so pressing K will enter 2. This is really annoying and even dangerous when I need to enter the password (I have already blocked my account few times). I seek for a solution how to 

Perform a restoration point, otherwise open the command prompt (CMD.exe) and run these orders to make a backup of the service key tree: 

Most Gamers used Fraps tool to measure the FPS of a game. Fraps is a game-video-recording application, although it also has the ability to display an FPS counter over the current game. $URL$ $URL$ There is also a newer tool called BandiCam which has a very nice dark stylish and does the same. $URL$ $URL$ 

At this point we have a working standalone that does not require the VMWare Workstation application installed to shrink a virtual-disk :), so we can store those files in a folder and call the application from commandline to shrink a disk: 

The problem I discovered is that due to the modifications I did, when I do right-click on a taskbar icon, this menu doesn't appears: 

On the other hand, the trick works ok for the original items that are stored in the registry keys mentioned above, but this trick doesn't works for this "ghost" or "dummy" item which is the one that I want to hide from contextmenu. 

That GUID or CLSID does not exists on the registry of my host OS (Windows 8), seems that is only for Windows 8.1, and I did not find any info about that GUID 'cause Google just finds two matches from Technet in an unknown language for me: $URL$ These are the unique keys that exists on my registry referencing that CLSID: ( Maybe you could notice and advise me of important differences from an original Windows 8.1 fresh installation)