I have a work-around. Take IE11 out of protected mode and all is well again. Not ideal as you are now in "non protected mode" - but given that I can re-image my machine in the space of 5 mins it isn't a massive concern to me. No idea why this should be so though. 

I have multiple systems running Windows 8.1 Update - all fully patched. All virus free and with no add-ons or toolbars installed. On one system, IE11 won't download anything unless I "run as administrator" for IE11. There are other postings with a similar issue on the internet - but no resolution. If I go to, for example, the MS download site and click on anything and try to download (for example) Test.exe - the file is renamed "test_exe" and it fails to download. Ditto any other site where I download from a link (including from my own server). Indeed, SuperUser.Com doesn't work correctly - the login button having no effect other than to refresh the page - unless I "run as administrator" on IE11. On my other machines it works fine. There obviously is a difference between them, but I don't know what - I've just restored an image of a clean install and then re-patched it and the same issue arises. Most IE settings are set via Group Policy. I found this similar problem here $URL$ I have UAC turned off on my machines - but turning it on makes no difference either. Suggestions anyone? 

Solution: Switch off the "switchable graphics" in the BIOS. This disables the switching between the AMD Firepro and the built in Intel HD GPU - which is there for saving battery life. The system now only runs on the AMD GPU - I guess the 2 cards were arguing over resources. No issues at all since done this. Battery life doesn't seem to be affected. 

I don't realy tried that, but scheduled reboot and then shutdown should help you in this. (Tasks Scheduler) 

This will create a 1 - 26 values in the row where you will place the formula. Hope that will help you. 

I can suggest you this utility "Revo Uninstaller". link: $URL$ 1. If you have Steam installed and want it completely removed with everything related (registry, files, links) then run the RevoUninstaller. There will be a list of installed programs from that list you can select and delete "Steam". Other solution is that you can click on "Hunter" mode in Revo Uninstaller and drag&drop exe file of program you need to uninstall. 2.You will be asked what type of deletion to choose: 3.Select "Advanced" and click ok/continue. 4.After Revo Uninstaller performs cleanup of uninstaller(if available) it will search for all files and registry entries. 5.Select all files/registry entries for deletion, if they can not be immediately deleted, you will be prompted to choose if you would like that on next reboot (just click ok). This will completely wipe all data of related to this program. Hope this helps you. 

You should read this article, it will be of help to you. $URL$ I would personaly configure your router that it will reserve this device IP in its DHCP configuration so that it would not change. 

Make a script on server "A" with connection initiation on server "B" and command sending that will connect your server "C" and send forward commands needed like "ARGS: %1 %2 %3 etc..." See how to run command on another server here: "$URL$ Example: 

I currently need to find a regedit entry so i can disable libre office 5 auto-updates. Does anyone has a sollution? OS: Windows 7 64x professional. 

I've followed this guide on setting up a basic server and getting a .p12 file, however, I was receiving an error that stated was missing, so I created it 

The problem I am having is that it looks like, even though the machine is now on the AD, and I can browse users in the AD, etc... My network configuration (IP/route tables, etc) are not correct. For example, my AD server is in the 172 IP range, while BOB is sitting at 10.0.2.15. The DNS server stores Bob's value as 10.0.2.15, so when I ping it from my workstation at 172, I end up getting no response (obviously it's on a different net). Bob's route table is configured to deal with 10... range of IP, rather than 172. I have attempted doing commands such as and even editing the route tables, but that then makes outbound network traffic imposable. I'm not really a great network expert here so any help is greatly appreciated. 

And the netstat command still indicates the state is not set to . On the client-side I've installed the p12 certs onto two devices (one is an android tablet, the other is an Ubuntu desktop). I don't see port 1194 as open either. Both clients install the cert files and then ask me for the L2TP secret (which was set on the file), but then they oddly ask me for a username and a password, which I don't know where I could possibly get those from. I attempted all of my logins, and some whacky guesses that were frantically pulling at straws. If there's any more information I could provide let me know. 

This problem started when backing up during a power failure, so my guess is that the most recent snapshots that are being loaded are uncompleted and leading to this issue. What should I do to resolve this? Is there a tool? Is there something I must manually edit from the XML file and files to delete? (xml file for "devubuntu": $URL$ ) 

This will create a new entry in registry that should disable the Lock Screen in Windows 10. If you want the lock screen on again, just change the "1" to "0" I have taken it from here: $URL$ Note on Disabling the Windows 10 Login Screen & Password Prompt On a related note, it is possible to disable the Windows 10 login screen so that you don't have to enter a password after booting your PC, but that subject would warrant a separate tutorial, and it comes with one big downside: If you disable the password prompt and login screen on Windows 10, you'll lose the ability to sync settings and data across all of your Windows devices. Hopefully this process becomes a bit more stable in future builds, and we'll cover it at that time. (Did not tested this myself) 

No, it is not necessary for the flash drive to be FAT to be bootable but as it stands now most devices are able to recognize natively FAT32 format be it your droid,tv or something else. However you can boot from any format as long as your bootloader recognizes it. Took this from here: $URL$ I think myself that your bootloader does not recognise the format. Or maybe there is boot mode in your bios that needs to be properly set. Because i tried myself making a NTFS bootloader for Win7 Pro 64bit and it worked out fine. 

Take advice that user @davidgo mentioned below and "make a bit copy of the drive" Make a disk test of your "OLD DISK" try to fix it with utility "chkdsk" in CMD. I think that command would be needed to run for you: chkdsk %YOUR OLD DISK drive letter%: /F /X /R /B if everything is okay you have a high probability to enter your folder unless there is another problem, maybe access to files like you have encrypted your folder (you did not write more details, so there is only guesses)