Is it possible for Raspberry pi to flash Noobs to any Android device? I have no device I am actively trying this on yet. If it is possible I a Nexus device running Android is what I would try to work with. I want more control over my Android. 

This question is unclear. What exactly do you want to know? I also started with zero knowledge of RPi 9 months ago so I understand being overwhelmed. However you are not giving enough information and asking to many vague questions to get any good answer. You need to tell us things such as what RPi you have and what operating system you have. I assume your not using the command line but a GUI. But assumptions help no one. These are just examples only the tip of the iceberg. If you do not have a basic understanding of the device you are using how can you expect to control it? I strongly suggest going to $URL$ click on help and then click on the documentation box. Start from the setup/quickstart tab and read every section of every tab finishing with hardware. Then visit the learning resource center. You mentioned something about drum beats or something and gpio pins and a breadboard. Making a beat has nothing to do with the pins. If you have an SD card with NOOBS then you have Sonic pi a program for making music. That is just one option, there are many more. I am still very new but confident in what I know and I know more everyday. I decided to learn from the command line. I knew that I was getting a raspberry pi to learn Linux, Bash, python and php. I had no project in mind only learning the tool. At first I read and practiced the basics of getting around the system, knowing how to operate it and what is on it. Also learned about copying, making and moving files. I learned my network and things like SSH login. I set up a web server, copied and backed up my system. I learned what packages were installed and how to install then remove other packages. Do you know how to get packages or use github? You are confused because you are jumping steps. You can't get answers to your question because you are not asking answerable questions. I speak from experience. learn the basics first. Ask questions as you encounter them. Dont dismiss sections because you feel that it wont apply to what you want to do, because it just might...you dont know what you need to know. 

I would start over. If you have started making or building files and directories and moving things or deleting things you are going to spend a lot of time trying to fix things that never should have been messed with. Burn Raspbian or NOOBS from Raspberrypi.org according to the instructions given on the downloads page. After you reinstall do not make,remove, or delete files and folders before you check simple things like spelling, punctuation and spacing as you type them in the terminal. Make sure you use sudo or have permission to do what are trying to do. You stated you did not think you had a boot folder, and also you made a boot folder to create a config.txt file. I will tell you this..you may have deleted, moved or renamed it but at one time you did. I personally do NOT mess around with folders like boot without caution and backing up my system. I would suggest you spend some time learning the file tree, how it works and what the files and folders are used for. Raspberry pi is very forgiving. You can mess up and just burn a new image to reinstall and keep going a million times. By taking time to learn about your system and how it works you wont need to reinstall a million times. This is not the answer you are looking for, but they way you asked the question and what you are asking for I believe this is the answer you need. There may be a series of commands that could potentially save the day and undo what has been done, but if you are just planning on typing in commands that you never understand you will always have problems. If you always have problems you are not having fun, and if you are not having fun what is the point. Trust me I was given the advice I am giving you. I was offended at first but I gave it a try and it is fun it takes effort but it is worth it. 

A Pi isn't a powerful web server, but many personal sites don't get that much traffic. A Pi can be viable as a home server I haven't tried serving video from a Pi server, but I suspect that would be quite slow, and you wouldn't be able to stream video to many people simultaneously. You might be better off uploading images to imgur, upload your videos to Youtube, and embed them in pages on your site. This will massively increase the amount of traffic your server can handle. If your site is made from static HTML pages you might be able to serve around 100 pages per second (based on these tests). If your site is built using a large CMS like Wordpress, your Pi will struggle to serve one page in around 6 seconds. If you use Wordpress, you can improve page load time using caching plugins, but it will still be much slower than using static HTML pages. You could use a CMS that generates static HTML files like Pyplate. Or you could use a Javascript solution like Ghost. 

Some people have found that a new MAC address is generated every time their Pi boots. Check that the MAC address is the same every time you reboot. If not, read this thread on the Raspberry Pi forum: $URL$ Try adding the following to /boot/config.txt 

You also need to check the permissions of the directory /var/www/test to see if that is accessible for everyone: 

The default clock speed was 480MHz, but in recent releases it's been reduced to 432MHz to address some stability issues. See this page for more info: $URL$ 

If test is owned by pi or root, the server won't be able to access the files inside it. By default lighthttpd runs as user www-data, and can't access pi's files. You could use this command to change everything in /var/www to be owned by www-data: 

These two solutions are for different types of cluster. The one developed at Southampton University is kind of a super computer - it's good for number crunching, but not designed for use as a server cluster. If you want to host a web site on multiple Pi servers, you need to use a load balancer. Note that some jobs can be shared across multiple servers, and some can't. If you have a cloud storage system with several Pis, it will be difficult to keep them synchronized. The cluster with the load balancer just serves pages, and it isn't built for cloud storage. You could use several Pis to serve a web site, and use another Pi for cloud storage. 

WiringPi has a command line utility called 'gpio'. This makes it possible to control GPIO pins from the command line. Read about it here: $URL$ WiringPi doesn't need to be run as root, but programs built with the RPi.GPIO module do need to be run as root. 

You need to change the permissions of the files you uploaded. Try using this command to make your files accessible: 

If your Pi is set up to boot to the desktop, it will start X even if no display is connected. You can run this command to run the config utility: 

If you are using gcc, try using the -O0 option to disable optimisation. It's possible that the compiler decides that the tim variable isn't really needed when it's declared locally, so it produces executable code that skips the loops. When tim is declared globaly, the compiler uses different optimization rules, so the loop is included in the executable file. 

Most aquarium pumps are AC. You'd need a DC pump if you're going to power it from batteries. It's probably easier to use an AC pump with something like this: $URL$ With a device like this, you can use any mains powered pump, and you don't need to use a relay. 

I figured out the problem was due to a bad power supply. I turned it on with nothing pluged in and it worked. I swithched to a better power supply and now it works even with the dongle pluged in on start up. 

Maybe I missed something but I think sudo apt-get install, needs to know what to install. sudo apt-get install toilet for example. 

When I power up Pi Zero, I get to the page to boot into safe mode and the screen goes black for a few seconds and then flashes and shows four colored squares in the top right corner of my screen. If I try and press shift to boot into recovery it does the same thing. I have not seen this issue before is it my SD card or possibly a power problem 

I saw a variety of answers. some I knew and some i did not know. There is also one I always use that has not been listed yet. If it has and I missed it oops sorry. sudo hostname -I 

I want to get my 13 year old coding. I have a RPi3 I downloaded Retro pi so he could check it out. He went online and found all the cases that are out there for it. He wants one so he can build the retro pi game system. He will get board with the game system soon enough. My question is if we use the zero for Retro-pi and want to later add raspbian will we have enough RAM to do both or should I buy a different model to begin with? 

If I use a password manager to store all passwords including my password for the pi itself. Does any type of text file or folder get created and stored anywhere on the raspberrypi..or only on the usb drive? 

I would check the voltage one the tutorial link posted. It is for a 12v strip. Yours says 24v? Raspberry pi 5v. Seems a bit inefficient to me. 

I am running Raspbian jessie 8 on my RPi3. I am trying to see what version of samba is installed if any. I do not remember installing it as far as i know it is for remote access but I am not totally sure. It seems like when I update I see it updating but again i am not 100% sure. Can some one give me a hint on the command. I have already tried uname -a, smbd -v, and smbdstatus. 

I have a Netgear router that is compatible to flash DD-WRT. I have read you can use mac windows or linux. I only have a RPi3 no other computers. Will my Rpi3 work for this? I am running the latest Rasbian and have a 16G sd card. 

If I create a partion on my 32gig USB stick using rpi2 then format it to FAT32 allow me to then copy the SD card of the Rpi2 onto the USB stick? 

I agree with MartinMarty in my experience using apache..the original file by default was /var/www/html. After downloading PHP I had to change the HTML to PHP. I did this by typing Sudo nano /var/www/php5 I then added some simple PHP code to show the date saved the file usomg control x Y Enter Then from the terminal I had to remove /var/www/HTMl I then type ls to verify it is gone revisit the ip address hit refresh and you should see the date and the file will be php I hope this helps..it worked for me 

$URL$ You will need to calculate that question yourself. The cost of mining and hash rate is unique to every miner. If this is endevor is a must for you I suggest you look at pooling if that is still an option. Keep in mind the calculations that are trying to be solved to actually get any bitcoin are very complex and take alot of power That needs to be apart of the equation. Join a bit coin forum they can help as most of the users are currently mining.