Get a new cpu fan. They're cheap and pretty easy to install. Were you looking for a different answer? 

Try removing your profile (you will lose your bookmarks, passwords, browsing history, etc). Your profile is usually located in ~/.mozilla or ~/.firefox, it's a sub-directory in there, remove the subdir only. This is a fixable problem (or at least should be). The issue is figuring out why firefox isn't starting. That said, it's possible that firefox not starting is the least of your problems. Who knows what else is busted. . . getting some idea as to why firefox is failing may help you figure out if anything else is broken. If all else fails: 

edit: You can print $$ to a file in the else, prior to the exec if you want to capture the pid. You can also just grep through PS output to kill based on pid. 

I'd like to add a dedicated N (or g - lock the 310n to g) channel to the network. Any thoughts? Is buying a second cheap G router the best option (setting up a wired bridge with dd-wrt), get an N bridge (if so, any recommendations?) The only reason I actually care about N at all is getting some speed to my mac mini (HTPC). I really don't want/need a new router (unless there's not a good option that costs less than a 610n). 

A different approach is to use a program like swatch. Swatch is built to do exactly what you are talking about, plus a dozen other things. 

i2p is another anonymous proxy system. It works differently than Tor but it still quite slow. It essentially creates a virtual encrypted/anonymous network on top of regular IP. There are web servers that are only accessible via the i2p network. The i2p network provides things like out proxies and dns proxies that allow you to get to normal (i.e. non i2p) websites. You need to run an i2p "router" (java software) on your local device to connect to the i2p network. 

Open Office is really messing with me. I'm just trying to make an outline for one of my textbooks, and it's doing stuff like this: 

Notice how certain items on the second level are pushed forward. What's going on? Why is it doing that? I downloaded OO quite recently, and haven't tampered with the "Bullets and Numbering" settings. 

Specifically: I cannot . When I do, I get I ran and got the following error: I am trying to do this on a basic Bluehost hosting plan. I have SSH access but no root. The server is running Red Hat 4.4.7-17 

What's going on? Is this a bug, or a feature? If font matters, I'm using Calibri, but this happens with other fonts like Times New Roman too. 

This seems to be a pretty common problem with Excel 2010. There could be a great variety of things wrong with your computer. I cannot help you very much with such a vague and unresearched question. Here is a list of links that may help you research your question more. If you edit your question to be more specific, I will edit this answer with a specific answer. 

Due to the ambiguity of your question, I can only guess what the problem is. More research and editing would be required to achieve a definite answer. The lack of Send/Receive File options is, as Ramhound said, probably due to you not having any devices connected. I recommend checking the connectivity of the device you're trying to transfer files to. If your bluetooth devices are connected, your drivers may be out of date. As (I'm guessing) you know, those options exist, and they look like this: 

I wish I could give you more hints...I tried going into synaptic and filtering by my broken packages... does come back as broken...all options fail in almost identical ways to what's posted above. I'd appreciate any help with this. I'm worried I may have to purge/uninstall/reinstall , but that's a little bit too crazy to do before consulting everyone here. I tried purging too: 

I tried to install today, and the power went out. Now, when I try to install any packages, it complains about a couple of different things: 

and treat it almost as if I'm using gnome, with all the keyboard shortcuts and media support I'm used to (like, you know, a mouse). I am looking to blend the best of graphical and command line user interfaces. I like using the command line, but I don't want to lose the things I use most: , , , . All are good, and are somewhat bound to my hip as a member of Generation Y. Does anybody know of a good tutorial that can show me how to get this ideal setup on my machine? I'd appreciate it! 

My script takes a as its third argument, and it can have any kind of input...including characters that bash complains about. I'd really like to use this one-off script right from the terminal, can someone explain how I could get my input to work if it looks like this? 

I still have yet to figure out how to launch a full screen terminal in all workspaces across my desktop from the auto-launcher. I have tried throwing a on my commands, and writing a dedicated file for each, but so far nothing has worked. But a will get things looking good again. If anyone finds out how to launch a terminal in all 6 workspaces, I'd appreciate it if you shared that info. 

As far as I know, Windows automatically remembers things on a per-folder basis. If you change a folder's view settings once, unless you make changes to the contents of the folder, it will stay the same. I can set Windows Explorer to use List View on a specific folder, or Tiles, or any other view, and when I exit and go back into Windows Explorer, and even if I reboot it will stay the same. So, you really only have to endure the pain of loading all the tile thumbnails once, and you can then change it to another view and most likely never have to worry about it again. 

I found all of these results one the first page of Google after searching excel hangs on "accessing printer". Good luck! 

You may have to go in and clear your history there. You also probably want to turn it off, it gets pretty annoying. If that doesn't work, you probably have malware. 

I love how, in Microsoft Word, I can go to Tools > Track Changes > Compare Documents, and see a side-by-side annotation of the differences in documents. Is there a way to automate this from the command line, so that, for example, if a user uploads a document to my server, I can compare the two and return a copy of the annotated diff. (This is for MS Office training purposes.) I am also looking for similar solutions for Excel and Powerpoint. I welcome any solution or idea involving scripting/XML diff/etc. 

I'm using OpenOffice 3.4.1 on Windows 7, the Writer keeps giving me these weird bumps in my words. Sometimes, randomly, the words I type have little hills and/or valleys of about one pixel. I took a screenshot and blew it up so you can see what I mean. 

Clarification: I've installed the Lion-Server package on my desktop. This isn't headless server hardware. 

I'd really consider getting separate devices to handle the three different tasks. It costs a bit more now, but will save you money in the long run. With an all in one unit, upgrading one piece forces you to upgrade everything. I have a generic docsis 2.0 modem, a linksys 610n router (really nice dual radio that supports dd-wrt) and a generic linksys voip box. When I want to upgrade to a docsis 3.0 modem, I don't have to pay for a new router/voip box. (not to mention having to re-configure my router). In the end, being able to upgrade individual pieces rather than re-buy the whole thing is a plus (yet I'm still a Mac user, go figure) 

It really has nothing to do with the number of "users" or wireless clients. If I'm downloading a 1gig file at 1mbs that would leave 53mbs (on a 54mb link) for other applications to do stuff. However, if I'm able to get that 1gig file with a rate of 45mbs that would leave 9mbs for other applications. The speed of the flow depends on bandwidth, routers, network conditions between the two devices involved in the flow. Note: due to header overhead etc, you will never get 54mbs of transfer rate out of a 54mbs network. And it's really not that straight forward, but it's a more accurate way of thinking about the problem. 

get connected to Lion Server again failing that, a way to completely remove lion server so I can re-install Another place to look/check etc. so I can continue debugging, I'm a bit stuck at the moment. 

I found this simple tutorial for modifying the way my Mint Julia 32 bit OS starts up with a command line only, except my next task is to try and find a way to launch instances of GUI applications without bringing up the entire gnome desktop experience. In a perfect world, my goal would be to have the gnome desktop environment running in the background, only, there is a terminal session that cannot be closed or minimized, hiding the start menu and desktop. From there you could type in 

And disable all minimize, maximize, and close system buttons through Apps -> metacity -> general (among other places. I also modified my "pane" bar to show pretty much nothing except the time and the weather, and cleared my desktop of everything). 

This last command didn't do anything different as well. Think it's time to uninstall openoffice, and the 15+ packages that are going down with it? UPDATE I decided to try and dig myself out of a hole by selecting "Completely Remove" from synaptic for , and allowing it to also take its dependents with it. I was going to reinstall + update each package afterwards, but it still won't let me go through with it. Same error message as before, and now I'm wondering what other options I have. Everything works fine on my computer...except getting new, updating existing, repairing or removing packages on my machine. RESOLVED After running I got this last line, which was a new one: 

That cleared it up. I had to go into synaptic to get a genuine reinstall, but afterwards, it worked. Finally. Thanks everyone.