Mostly, that would be done by a dedicated appliance, such as a next-generation firewall. Some vendors implement this as an optional service in software on routers, e.g. Cisco's NBAR2, performed using the router's CPU. The service is very CPU intensive, and the performance/throughput of a router running something like this is severely impacted, which is why you normally do this on a dedicated appliance. 

Frames on a layer-2 LAN are delivered directly from one host to another host on the same LAN. To get from one LAN to another LAN, you need layer-3 (IPv4, IPX, IPV6, etc.). IPv4 and IPv6 both provide fields in the IP header for facilitating QoS, and each has various options, which may also be extended in the future. RFC 791, Internet Protocol provides the scope of IP: 

You have the and networks defined on both the middle and right routers. Using on both makes each think they own those whole summarized networks, so they will not send any traffic in those networks toward the other router. Using will allow each router to understand the more specific routes of each router. 

That is incorrect. A socket is local to a host, so both hosts will each have their own sockets. A connection consists of a pair of sockets. What you are really asking about is TCP multiplexing. This is explained in RFC 739, Transmission Control Protocol, Section 1.5 Operation: 

There are several PoE standards, and each has a maximum amount of power it can deliver. Apparently your switch can't deliver enough power, and there is nothing to be done about that except to replace the switch or use an external, in-line PoE adapter that delivers enough power. You can't change the existing switch to use a newer PoE standard. I see this problem all the time with the new 802.11ac WAPs. They require PoE+, but people try to use them on PoE, and it just doesn't work. With one or two devices, it makes sense to buy external PoE adapters, but for a lot of devices, you just need to replace the switch with one that supports the newer standards. EDIT: The data sheet for your switch shows a maximum of 78 Watts PoE for the entire switch. Are you using PoE in other ports? You could be exceeding the power budget for the switch. 

What you are asking about is incoming data, and you have no real direct control over the bandwidth use of incoming data. Remember that by the time you see the incoming traffic in order to police it, it has already used your incoming bandwidth. It is really first-come, first-served. It is likely that the servers are sending faster than your link from the ISP, and many packets are dropped and re-requested. TCP will strike a balance because it uses connections, but any incoming UDP traffic (including real-time traffic like VoIP or video) will not be controlled, and it can completely clog your incoming link. The best you can do for incoming traffic is to police (drop) it, and that will give you a rough control over TCP traffic, but nothing for connectionless traffic. The only thing you can directly control are the QoS policies and implementation on your own network. Some ISPs will allow you to pay extra to give you some QoS on their network, but on the greater Internet, your QoS policies and markings are ignored or reset to (Best Effort). You can, and really should, mark high- and low-priority traffic on your own network, and you can shape it out your WAN link. Don't go overboard on the classification of traffic; usually four or five classification are enough. VoIP should be priority, and control traffic for routing protocols and things like VoIP should be the second highest priority. Things like server backup or other bulk traffic that can interfere with your business traffic should be a low priority. The vast majority of your traffic should remain as . Most people first getting into QoS try to mark everything in many different classifications, but this is a rookie mistake. Keep it simple, and if you get a half-dozen classifications, then you should really rethink things. 

When SMS messages are delivered depends on the carrier, not the device to which the messages are delivered. When a cell tower sends something to a phone, the phone gets it right away. The antenna is layer-1, but the message is in an upper-layer. Does the antenna type affect how soon voice traffic is sent to the phone? No. That could cause a delay in the conversation on the handset. The real source of delays are in the carrier(s), and/or PSTN, network(s). 

Let's assume you have eight switch interfaces (GigabitEthernet0 - 7), and two router interfaces (GigabitEthernet8 - 9), like a Cisco 892 router. There are two connections to other routers, and there are four VLANs (two switch interfaces on each VLAN). The first eight interfaces are switch interfaces, and they are configured like a layer-2 switch. The last two interfaces are router interfaces, and they are configured with layer-3. The four VLAN interfaces are configured as layer-3 interfaces. Routing between the VLANs and the router interfaces will happen, as long as they are configured for layer-3, and there are no other configurations to block, e.g. ACLs. The gateways for the VLANs will be the addresses configured on the VLAN interfaces. You could have something like this: 

In the GS752TP, GS728TP, and GS728TPP Gigabit Smart Switches Software Administration Manual, on page 47: 

That's the whole point of VLANs. VLANs create a layer-2 separation. You can't get from one layer-2 domain to another without a layer-3 device (router) connecting them. The switch is just another host on a different VLAN. The VLANs are like yards separated by fences. You need a gate (router) to get from one to the other. If you add a VLAN 2 SVI on the switch with an address in the same subnet as the PC, you could ping the PC. 

Which you choose is up to you since any are larger than you need right now, but you may want to think about future growth, too. 

By client, do you mean a host like a PC?. Most don't understand VLAN tags, and the switch ports to which it is connected is probably an access ports which doesn't send VLAN tags, anyway. If you have a host that does send VLAN tags, you need to make sure that it is connected to a trunk port which allows that VLAN. Typically, you use what the switch has built in to see VLANs from the trunks. This varies by switch model. Managed switches will tag VLANs on the trunks if properly configured. You need to make sure that the trunks are set to allow all the VLANs which you are expecting.