You should read this article, it will be of help to you. $URL$ I would personaly configure your router that it will reserve this device IP in its DHCP configuration so that it would not change. 

Take advice that user @davidgo mentioned below and "make a bit copy of the drive" Make a disk test of your "OLD DISK" try to fix it with utility "chkdsk" in CMD. I think that command would be needed to run for you: chkdsk %YOUR OLD DISK drive letter%: /F /X /R /B if everything is okay you have a high probability to enter your folder unless there is another problem, maybe access to files like you have encrypted your folder (you did not write more details, so there is only guesses) 

I don't realy tried that, but scheduled reboot and then shutdown should help you in this. (Tasks Scheduler) 

Make a script on server "A" with connection initiation on server "B" and command sending that will connect your server "C" and send forward commands needed like "ARGS: %1 %2 %3 etc..." See how to run command on another server here: "$URL$ Example: 

It looks like some of your system files are broken. You can try to: run cmd.exe as Administrator, then type sfc /scannow and wait for the process to complete. Hope this helps. 

1.When windows updates, it first downloading files from whatever storage of MS there is. 2.Then it start to look thought packages your system already has and downloaded. 3.After this there is a dependency mechanism on what package need what actions to be performed: for example you have packages downloaded: pack1 pack2 pack3 pack4 and already present packages: pk0pk1 pk2pk3... The system during update can for example check that package "pack2" needs reboot and be installed only after "pack1" should be installed onto system, because of this it will need a complete system reboot. That is the suggestion why after you shutdown your PC your downloaded updates are still "Updating" (but they are Installing in fact) And the option that goes from Microsoft about shutdown your PC for good after download of updates can be more universall, maybe you want to see the process with your own eyes and shut it down for this reason. I think more can be found here: $URL$ for more detailed process on update i think it will be better to contact the support and mention the specific version of Windows you are using. 

=DOLLAR - is a function that converts the following number into current currency (i suspect from country you are or your account is) MOD(dividend;divider) - is a value that is returned after your "dividend" was divided with "divider" for example: 5 divide 2 you have 1 is left undivided and 4 divide 2 you have 0 left undivided then goes: (4 / "value in cell A1") / 7+ MOD(19[dividend]MOD(value in A1[dividend], 19[divider])-7,30[divider]) and this returned number is multiplied by * 14%,) after all calculations the value is multiplied x 7 and is substructed by -6 in the end I think that was helpfull, because i am not very good in such english explanations. =) 

This file is not a virus. It deletes "svchost.exe" file only, and tries to perform task(delete) if this file still exists. 

No, it is not necessary for the flash drive to be FAT to be bootable but as it stands now most devices are able to recognize natively FAT32 format be it your droid,tv or something else. However you can boot from any format as long as your bootloader recognizes it. Took this from here: $URL$ I think myself that your bootloader does not recognise the format. Or maybe there is boot mode in your bios that needs to be properly set. Because i tried myself making a NTFS bootloader for Win7 Pro 64bit and it worked out fine. 

If you've used Winamp, you know it can play files in a playlist without a noticeable delay. Other players, however, don't do that for various reasons. I'd like to know if it's possible to enable seamless playback in my favorite player, Media Player Classic. 

A slight modification of the Taskkill answer: You can use wildcard if you don't remember/know the exact full name of the process, like so: 

I'm having trouble installing Nokia BH-100U on my Windows 7 PC (x64). I wanted to use it as a wireless headset for Skype. Currently I'm stuck at the step where the device should be automatically installed by Win7. It doesn't find the appropriate drivers and shows the following message: 

Middle-clicking the "go" button (seen as → in the page address bar) in Firefox opens entered page address in a new tab. Is there a key combination that does the same thing? 

I prefer disabled font anti-aliasing on my desktop, but some websites use custom fonts that look absolutely horrible without anti-aliasing. I could disable custom fonts completely from Firefox font options, but it'd be better if there was a way to create a list of fonts that are ok to smooth (or better a list of fonts that should not be smoothed and allow all others). Is there a way to (not) smooth specified fonts in Firefox? 

I've been trying to configure the Shape XY filter for National Geographic's logo. It would look like this on the video: 

old solution using AutoIt Note: this solution may cause stuttering and occasional freezes on older CPUs or at full CPU load. I whipped up an AutoIt script which detects the cursor within the notes list area and if you scroll up or down, makes a click on the "up" and "down" buttons on the scrollbar. This works with multiple OneNote windows. You don't have to have focus on the window for the scroll to work, just hover over that list: 

Ok I figured it out by using a working fresh copy of Office 2013 on another computer. Start the MS Word application. It should look like this: 

The problem I'm having is on certain videos Youtube gives me this cheeky message which suggests to use other combinations of browsers and OSes: 

I'd like to find a way to manipulate window colors: invert, tint, change brightness and contrast of specific windows in Windows 7 (although I'm interested in solutions for 8 and 10 as well). Among the built-in tools there is only an inversion ability of Magnifying Glass (Winkey+Plus) and video card's control panel options which affect the entire screen. I know there is window opacity coz I've been playing with form properties in Visual Studio before, so maybe there's something for changing window colors too. Perhaps Windows Desktop Manager has some API command that does it? Clarification: I'm not interested in theming windows or what's it called that you can do via Personalization options. I'm talking about affecting the color of the window's contents. 

Alternatively, you may try opening the page source and searching for a part of the description text by manually typing it into the search box. Also, browsers these days have developer tools built in, so if you're familiar with how they work, it might be easier to just analyze an image and find that text in one of its properties. Or you could search through all connected files using devtools for a part of the description text as well. 

I'm using Firefox Developer Edition 51 (latest to date) and I'm on Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit with no "N" suffix. Many mention the "N" as it means there are no media codecs installed, and I'd have to get a special ~300mb installation from Microsoft's site (it's free). I tried it and it says it's not applicable for my case. There are also outdated suggestions to change some bool flags in about:config which are already enabled at this point. I have K-lite codec pack installed with maximal options, and I don't have media player uninstalled or missing checkboxes in any media-related options in the Windows Features list (available through the uninstallation control panel). What's missing? 

I want to remove the (dot) in line that has the word , but not on other lines. So it would look something like this: 

Might only be tangentially related, but there's also this weird continuous blinking every time I open this website: $URL$ (despite the name, it's not a weird fetish and 100% safe for work) Here's a short video depicting what I meant: $URL$ Curiously other HTML5 video seems to be fine. It's not exactly the same blinking with the one I've described before, but I'd lke to know if it's somehow related. Thanks! 

Will it damage the hard drive or the documents in any way? I hope my English is understandable. Thank you for the answers. :) 

Put my laptop into "hibernate" state instead of shutting it down Open the back of the laptop (I mean something like this) Pull out the hard-drive from the back Put the hard-drive into an external hard-drive casing, something like this: 

I hope I lay out my question/explanation clear, since English is not my mother tounge. Thank you in advance! 

Once in a while, in random instance, a portion of my screen (maybe half of it) will blinking black patches for a milisecond. This happened even when I'm not in a game, e.g. browsing Windows Explorer, using internet, etc. I can't seem to track when and why it happens, but it seems to happen more frequently when watching YouTube. EDIT: This is what I mean by blinking black patches. Watch it slowly in the first few seconds... $URL$ 

Is there a way to move my files from "My Laptop" (the old PC) to "My Laptop (1)" (the new PC) and let it sync there? The guide I found requires me to uninstall Drive in the old PC but in my case it's not possible (because of hard drive failure). 

When it does connect, it runs really slow. However my other devices (smartphones) are okay, the problem only occurrs on my laptop, and my brother's laptop (which, oddly, wasn't touched by my cousin). This has never happened before... I asked my cousin what he did, but he claimed that he doesn't know and "it just works" for him. I know this lacks fruitful information, but I really don't have any clue to networking at all. May I ask for help? My router is linksys WRH54G... 

Then what if I unplug the external hard drive, plug it into another laptop, what will happen to both the hard drive and the documents that was being opened if I do the following actions from the another laptop? 

If you have Adobe Photoshop at hand, you could batch resize the files in one folder. Open Photoshop, File > Scripts > Image Processor. Choose the folder the files are in. Or you could also do this online with: $URL$ 

But, still, it hasn't been successful. The warning always appears and gives me a lot of headaches. I can't install anything. Any help? :/ 

I'm moving from my old PC to a new one because the old one is broken (hard drive failure). I still have my files in Drive (now Backup & Sync) and I want to import those files to my new computer. But when I install Drive in my new PC, it just creates a new directory. 

"Unable to execute file in the temporary directory" pops up when I want to install files. I want to know, when I open an installation executable, to which folder the files from that executable goes to? Which folder that pop-up is referring to? Does it go to or to ? 

New, much simpler solution using AutoHotKey I've been looking for a way to avoid freezes caused by constant checks for the active window and also an overall simpler code solution. Here's what I made: 

I'd like to be able to view a gigantic picture (approx. 150'000 × 50'000 px) made of smaller images (4096 × 4096 px each). Are there any software or web applications for that? 

Winspector Spy app shows a log of all window messages sent and it allows to filter by specific windows. So I've managed to get a log of all of them, and now I'm gonna have to figure out which one of all of them is the scroll message that I want. 

Save this to a file, place it into the directory with all the zip files you want to convert and double-click it there. Thanks to Clint Priest for the base code. 

I know I can choose not to download specific files in torrent clients, but that is not enough precision in some cases. Sometimes I know roughly the time range within a movie where I wanna look up a specific scene, but I can't select downloaded chunks with more precision than the whole file (in uTorrent, at least). Are there any other bittorrent clients that allow this, or is there some other way that I can do this (plugin, perhaps)? 

By default, the main window has each torrent listed individually. I'd like to place some torrents in a "folder" (imagine collapsing a branch in a tree view list). Is there a way to group torrents and collapse them in the main torrent list? 

This is what I ended up doing for myself: I took the font file from and edited all its emoji symbols to contain the "not defined" symbol at the very end of the Unicode range. Using FontForge editor, I copied it and pasted over all the emoji symbols (), and installed it as a system font, and gave it a unique name so it could be used in Firefox as a custom installed font (as described in the other answer here) and now every emoji symbol is a square. You could use an empty space symbol instead if you want, but then you won't be able to see where an emoji is expected to be, and it might be a bit confusing. 

Press T and the Options window that isn't affected by this glitch will show up! Now you can go to "Advanced" tab and toggle "Disable hardware graphics acceleration" and just in case "Use subpixel positioning to smooth fonts on screen": 

I know VLC player can stream video and audio in several ways, and that it also has web interface along with some other ways to control it remotely. But can I make a local VLC player be able to control a remote one? Ideally, I'd like to be able to watch all my home library media remotely via stream in MPC with full control of playback, but VLC-to-VLC would be a good start. 

I like listening to music, but the one thing I can't get with the mobile devices (players, smartphones, notebooks) is the volume and clarity I get from my desktop pc audio card. It's nothing special, the cheapest PCI-E x1 Sound Blaster card, but somehow it sounds a lot better. I have tried listening to external audio cards and their sound is comparable, but they are a lot more expensive, to the point that I can't really think of it as a great value. So I'd like to try and find a way to make internal PCI-E audio cards mobile. Does there exist a common method to mobilize internal PCI-E devices? Perhaps some controller with only the required interfaces and power cables? If not, what does it take to turn a PCI-E audio card into USB-powered mobile version? Again, I'm looking for reasonably prices solutions, but if there are only the expensive ways, I'd still like to know about them.