I have an on-premises server and an Azure MSDN account. I heard that Azure supports the concept of a hybrid cloud where some server may be on-premises, not sure if I understand it correctly, though. For example, I have a few on-premises servers and I wish to have a dashboard with their performance. Basic stuff - CPU and RAM. To be able to configure thresholds and alerts. Can I sort of "on-board" these servers to some kind of Azure Monitoring solution and get all that? EDIT 1 This is what I can see: 

The machine is located in the amazon cloud. Worth to mention, that when ran as root the server works as expected. Any ideas? Thanks. P.S. Adding the authbind option or java property makes no difference. EDIT I have installed tomcat6. It listens on port 8080. I can wget its index page locally, but not from the outside using the DNS provided name of the machine. However, if I change its port from 8080 to 11111, then I can get to it from the outside. Which means, that the tomcat server behaves exactly like my own with respect to this issue. 

I actually tried a different approach, which yields the same result (probably because both "sit" on the same data): 

We are migrating from SVN to Mercurial and this question has arised practically from day one. So, here is the given: 

How is it possible that I have full control of this folder, but still cannot browse its contents? P.S. I need to fix it, because this is why I suspect the following command fails: 

My question is how can I configure the proxy settings, including the credentials using a more up-to-date tool? EDIT I would like to stress that I am looking for a command line utility to do that. 

EDIT3 I have just checked - the vm-host is able to ssh to the vm machine! I still do not know how to leverage this discovery to solve the problem. 

As you can see, I am OK with having multiple heads in the backup repository, unless you convince me otherwise. So, the question is about REV and URL, namely I see the following options for them: 

Place the PFX file in an Azure File Storage and obtain the SAS token. Add the credentials to the PFX file as an Azure Automation Asset Use the following DSC configuration to ensure the certificate is installed: 

The motivation is that I would like to know if the failure notifications pile up, but counting them in the GUI is insane, I would like to script it. 

So, both product codes are found in the same SSMS installation and correspond to sql_ssms.msi and sql_ssms_loc.msi. Both have the same Product Name - SQL Server Management Studio. Now, I have no idea what is sql_ssms_loc.msi, but I am going to try and use F8ADD24D-F2F2-465C-A675-F12FDB70DB82, because it corresponds to sql_ssms.msi. Will be back with the results. EDIT 1 Using F8ADD24D-F2F2-465C-A675-F12FDB70DB82 seems to have worked. 

Apparently I am missing the source for certain windows features. Does it mean I must provide the location of some kind of an installation disk? And that this disk must be available for as long as this configuration is active? Can the source be some Microsoft download URL? 

Note the line in the output. This is the same account I am using when logged on interactively to the remote machine, which is an XP virtual machine running on a Windows 7 box. The account is a local admin, of course. Now, running the same signtool command from a console window (from an RDP session) works just fine, but when Jenkins tries to execute it, I get this delegation error message. Another piece of information. The relevant process tree is: 

I have a file in an Azure File storage. I would like to download it using a DSC resource (, for example). The Azure File storage gives me an HTTPS url to that file, but it is not directly usable: 

The Save button is disabled. I do not understand how to advance from there. EDIT 2 I could not find the "the big blue button that says “add the selected performance counters”" I can see a small blue button with the + sign, pressing which I get the following: 

I am trying to create a DSC configuration for a developer workstation and facing difficulties. A developer machine has a well defined owner - the developer who is going to get it. Some configurations tightly coupled to the owner account: 

I do not have much experience with Mercurial, so I find it really hard to decide which option is the best. Can anyone advise, please? EDIT I have now realized that my question exposes my total misunderstanding of the push command. Of course, I do not mean . What I really meant by REV is BRANCH, so the options should read: 

I would like it to display '% Processor Time' instead of CounterValue. However, I cannot use , since the desired title contains spaces. So, how do I do it? 

I have just started to learn DSC and have no runbooks. So far I only used DSC configurations, no runbooks. So, is it only possible for runbooks? Does it mean that nobody works with just DSC configurations? P.S. Knowing that DSC stands for Desired State Configuration I find the term DSC configurations a bit funny. 

Problem - I have Logstash running on 13 different servers and I have no idea what is the current CPU and memory consumption of these java processes. Sure, I can open Perfmon and connect to these 13 different servers and show the different performance counters ... in theory. In practice, it is hardly the way. So, what is the way? How is it done sanely? 

I think I have finally figured out what is going on, though I am yet to check whether this will help me to install SSMS using Azure Automation DSC. Here is what I have done: 

So, which one is the correct one? Is there a more deterministic way of coping with the insanity of deducing the right product Id? 

The user is added to the list of the users - fine, but it shows no permissions. So, what is the right way to do it? Using icacls is not necessary, any command line way is fine. 

vm - a WinXPsp3 virtual machine hosted by a Win7sp1 physical machine alice is the user on vm srv - a Win2008R2sp1 server bob is the user on srv quake - a linux server mark is the user on quake Both vm and srv have the same new installation of cygwin (1.7.9) and openssh. Firewall service is disabled on vm (and its host) and on srv All the machines can be pinged from all the machines. works OK from both vm and srv. works OK from both quake and vm. works on the vm itself only, but it fails on the other two machines: 

The problem is with the vm-host. Although, it should be transparent for the SSH communication going to the guest machine (aka vm), for some unknown reason it is not. So, I had to install OpenSSH (via cygwin) on vm-host as well, even though I am not planning to access it via SSH. Once I have installed OpenSSH on vm-host I was able to access vm (the guest machine). How installing OpenSSH on the host machine solves the access problems to the guest - I have no idea.