I ran all these commands from both ddrossi93@raspberrypi and root@raspberrypi, neither have changed a thing. Any help is appreciated. Thanks in advance. I figured it out. See Answer. 

I hope this helps someone in the future so they don't have to go through hours of trying to figure it out. Thanks to Joe Platano for giving suggestions. 

I recently purchased a VPN (PIA) and set it up on my Pi 3 using openVPN and I am not sure if it is working or not. When I do an ifconfig, I do get a tun0 interface, but when I open a browser and try to connect to a webpage, I get this error: 

After doing what I listed in the description, I then found an option in the settings of the WD myCloud NAS to turn on NFS access. Once this was enabled, it mounted without any errors or issues. 

These configuration perfectly works for older wheezy versions and jessie lite version too but in jessie full version( 2017-08-16) its not working. When i configured the files above, rpi won't get connected to my external router (router and rpi are connected through a lan cable). I think this is because configuration for eth0 is changed when i configured the files as above. In Raspbian jessie version, i don't know where to configure the network interfaces. Also they shipped with inbuilt bind9 and dhcpcd, hence is there any conflict with dnsmasq server. throws an exit-code error. Can anyone please help me to solve this? How to configure Rpi 3 with raspbian jessie for the ethernet router? 

I am having a raspberry pi3 model b v1.2. The ethernet port available in the board is connected to modem. I just need one more ethernet port so i have decided to buy a usb to ethernet converter. What factors have to be considered while go for usb to ethernet converter? Whether they require any driver software or not? 

It looks like you have gone with a default of no flow control, and you have also specified no parity bits. Do you have control over the communications parameters on both sides? I know you said you didn't write the PC side but do you have the ability to specify port settings such as baud rate, parity bit, flow control? If so, I would try turning on hardware flow control and perhaps even or odd parity even though it is not going to provide much protection. See the third example here. It's the "parity=serial.PARITY_EVEN, rtscts=1" part that I am suggesting, but of course you have to be able to make the same change on both sides. p.s. In my opinion, you should still be doing what I think you're calling a hack ;-) which is to look at the data received and make sure it adheres to the expected format. 

after much research I found my answer. I unmounted what I had and started from scratch. I then remounted using this line in the terminal logged in as the user ddrossi93: 

I just successfully mounted my NAS drive to my raspberry pi 3. I then attempted to add it to the fstab to have it mount automatically when the device is rebooted. When I went to test it, as it was rebooting it would enter emergency mode and I could not get out of it. I since have reinstalled rasbian, and am going through the process of mounting my NAS again. My question is, how do I go about automatically mounting my NAS. I had it working for my USB External hard drive, but it obviously did not work for the NAS. Thanks in advance. EDIT: 

But when i first switch from wifi to ethernet it works. But when again switch from ethernet to wifi, hotspot generating but i can't connect my device. When i searched about it, some are saying it is because of udhcpd server. But both script work standalone. What will be the reason? 

I am using my Raspberry Pi for configuring both as an wifi hostpot and wired router not at same time. I have written separate bash script file (.sh file) for creating configuration files for wifi and wired router. I am using udhcp and dnsmasq for configuring Rpi as wifi hotspot. Tutorial on elinux. When i run wifi.sh file with following files are written successfully 

I am using 2012-07-15-wheezy-raspbian OS on my Raspberry Pi. I have connected Raspberry Pi to the router through lan cable. My laptop is connected to the router through Wifi and hence i can connect to Raspberry Pi. But i have no internet due to access point problem. Hence Raspberry Pi cannot connect to the internet. But my mobile hotspot can be used for internet sharing. Now i want to connect my laptop and Raspberry Pi to the same network that generated by my mobile hotspot. So that i can access Raspberry Pi through my laptop and also they have access to internet. I want to use ethernet cable to share this internet through the router by connecting lan cable to the input of router and so the devices under the network generated by the router also can access the internet. How can i configure the Raspberry Pi to work this condition? Please help me i am new to raspberry pi. I have found lot of tutorial and i didn't understand it. What code should be written in and ? 

I just mounted my Apple Time Capsule to my pi, but for some reason I cannot change, add, or remove any content from the directory. I have tried changing permissions from my username and from root but am having no luck, nothing changes. the directory is /home/ddrossi93/TimeCapsule and the Owner and Group are both set to ddrossi93 (I have a group named this as well). Permissions are anyone can view and access, but only the owner can change content. I am 99% sure I am logged in as ddrossi93, the owner. The folder within the directory (/home/ddrossi93/TimeCapsule/Downloads) has a different owner and group. the owner and group are both root. Anyone can view and access, but only the owner can change content. I have tried the following lines in terminal, but nothing has changed. 

The command you have in your initial post is "sudo apt install sqlite3". NOTE "apt". I think what you really meant (and need to use) is "sudo apt-get install sqlite3". NOTE "apt-get". "apt-get" being Advanced Packaging Tool on Debian Linux. "apt" by itself, I'll assume is trying to run the Java Annotation Processing Tool, which accounts for your message about needing to install a JDK. =========== Update: Come to find out, as explained by Dmitry (thanks!), apt should have worked by itself (without -get) and is a newer front-end to Advanced Packaging Tool. Here is some more info on that, specifically. OP must have been in exactly the right directory to stumble into a half-baked Java command. =========== Incidentally, before running the correct apt-get command, you should probably run "sudo apt-get update". Some more knowledgeable Linux people might correct me, but I think this updates the package list that will be used by your apt-get install command to make sure it downloads the right parts from the right places. I've been playing with the RPi for a couple years and I've gotten into the habit of doing sudo apt-get update before I install packages or upgrade, which is not to say it's a good habit!