Is the partition marked System Reserved? If so, this is required by the OS and shouldn't be deleted. However, it also shouldn't have a drive letter assigned, and should only be 100Mb. Has the server been built fully with apps etc, or is this still just a base OS install with no configuration? Outside of that, then it does sound like Dell cruft. In which case you may be able to remove the partition using a liveCD such as gParted. However before you do this, I would ensure you're in a position to effectively lose the whole OS install. gParted works most of the time, but not 100%, and I can't give you a guarantee that this mystery partition is completely safe to delete. 

Jump onto the service console on each ESX host and run vm-support -x to get a list of all VMs that host is running or things it is running. You should be able to ID the correct host. If it doesn't show up on any host, then none of them is running it and you should be try the 'add to inventory' route to re-attach it. On the other hand if you do find it, you can make a note of the VMID then run the following to bring it down: 

No. But as with any change like this, test it out on a non-critical environment first, and perform the actual cut-over during the period where there's least impact if the services do go down. Always plan it like it's going to fail. Traffic for the VMs themselves flow over a seperate VM Network definition. Which could potentially be bound to the same network adapter, but they don't use the service console for traffic. 

Can you select multiple files when you're browsing for files to restore? Just Shift-Click or CTRL-click the files to select more than one. 

Short answer: No. Just set a static internal IP like 192.168.0.10. When you DCPROMO your first domain controller it complains if you're using DHCP to set the server address, and I'm guessing this is what prompted your post. Long answer: Active Directory is an internal service that you should be running on an Internal (non-routed) IP address range (like 192.168.x.x which would not be a valid address on the Internet). If you wish to expose a part of your internal LAN to the external Internet or other networks, you need to look at using Network Address Translation (NAT) on your router. Then you'd use that to 'map' your Internet IP back to your internal IPs as needed. As for external static IPs... you probably DO want one of these, but not for anything to do with AD. If your running a business and will be hosting any kind of externally-accessible service on your network, and serving to the Internet, then yes, you need an ISP that will provide you with a static IP. Many business-grade connections include this. You also need sufficiently powerful networking equipment that will allow you to isolate a De-Militarized network zone (DMZ). 

I'm in the process of setting up a MOSS 2007 (with IIS7 and Server 2008) intranet and am looking to find a way to prevent people from having to log in when they want to view the site. Ideally, I would like SharePoint to draw from the user's Active Directory account without having to enable guest access. Can anyone tell me how to do this or have any good resources that describe how to get this done? Just for the record--I have tried searching Google for the answers but apparently I'm not using the right terms to find what I need. 

UPDATE: Apparently the reinstall did not fix the issue. I researched the issue a bit more and found that disabling the background save may take care of it, but I haven't had a chance to try it yet. Does anyone else have any other ideas? 

We are in the planning stages of deploying a SharePoint server that will be used for our organization's intranet. As part of the deployment, we are going to be centralizing all of the internal documents. As you can imagine, there is no standardization of the filenames for the internal documents that have already been created. What I would like to do is setup some form of standardization between the filenames now and those going forward to keep the intranet organized and uniform. What I am looking for is any resources or wisdom on how others have organized documents for their networks and on any best practices on general naming conventions that are/have been used. I realize that every deployment will be different, but I'm just looking for a general direction to be pointed in to get started. 

I am running into an issue with a user whose Word document is somehow turning itself into Read-Only. The user is using Word 2003 and is accessing a document that is in a Server 2008 share. The document itself starts out as a normal, editable document (user has Full Control permissions), and the user is able to save and do the 'normal' things you would do to a document. However, after a couple of saves, the document turns to Read-Only (according to the title bar) even though the Read-Only attribute is not checked on the document's properties. Here is some additional information about the situation: *User has approximately 5-8 Word documents open at a time *User saves the document frequently (sometimes at a frequency of once per minute) *Once the document is closed it will open as a normal document if reopened *When the document does turn to Read-Only the user will do a "Save As" on the document and save it as FILENAME # where # is some increment of how many times this has happened (some documents are up to their 30th iteration) I understand that there is probably some room for user education here and that they could just be copying the RO document to a new one, closing and opening the RO doc, then copying all the information back. However, I would like to get to the route cause of the problem and try to stop it from happening in the first place. 

I'd recommend spawning your windows 2003 instance inside a VM on your PC first, and playing around with it to figure out how bits and pieces work. If you're anything like me, you'll learn a lot more by prodding around than from reading (although that has its place). The nice thing about a VM is that the install is device-driver-hassle-free, and you can take snapshots before making changes, then roll right back if it all goes pear shaped. The basic server install is pretty much the same as windows xp. Nothing's likely to trip you up there. Careful with your licensing though - A Windows 2003 CAL is not the same as a Windows 2003 server license. A CAL grants you the right to access a server as a client, not the right to install the OS on a server. That said, if your company has an MSDN agreement and you are a developer, you may be licensed for training/development purposes. For a learning resource, technet is the daddy. Your entry point is here: $URL$ 

There were a number of changes to the file sharing system in 2008/Vista which may be causing you issues. 

Check that your PDC has a valid external time source. If not, it may be flagging itself as 'unreliable' and clients may back off. Also check that you can run w32tm /stripchard /computer:yourdcnamehere from a client and receive a valid response. Lastly, the domain time sync heirachy isn't consistently documented by microsoft, but I believe your clients will checking in with their logon server for time sync. That may or may not be the PDC depending on your topology. So verify on the clients that doing a echo %logonserver% returns the PDC's name. BTW, as of 2003 and XP, you're dealing with a full NTP implementation rather than the stripped-down 2000-and-earlier SNTP. net time is deprecated and w32tm should be used for configuration. Again, this isn't clearly documented IMO. 

I have been working on a project to map out my organization's network infrastructure. For the networking devices (we are a Cisco shop) I have been running the command to see how everything is connected and through which interface. I am noticing that our ASA is not showing up in the output of these commands (it is connected to a Cisco switch). I ran a command list via and CDP does not show up as an option. My question is this: is there a command similar to that will show to which devices the ASA is connected? 

At our organization we use a series of shared Outlook calendars to schedule out our conference rooms. All domain users are setup as authors of these calenders. We are now running into a problem where the end user is either not checking/caring if a room already has an appointment assigned to the room for the period of time that they want to use it. So my question is this: Is there any way to prevent a user from scheduling an appointment or meeting on one of these calendars when there is already a preexisting one on it? We've already tried going into Options -> Resource Scheduling and checking "Automatically decline conflicting meeting requests," but this did not resolve the issue. 

I am working with an Enterprise level Access database. This database contains some basic data entry fields and buttons such as "Find," "Submit," "Clear," etc. We are, at the same time, updating our user's Microsoft Office Suites to the 2007 version. What we are now finding is that these form buttons are disappearing from the Access forms when using Access 2007. The strange this is that the buttons are still there function-wise and will appear after you click them. Has anyone encountered this or have any ideas on how to fix it? Edit The file the user is working on is an .ade. As far as I can tell the original database/forms were created in Access 2003. 

Mailbox policy like this does not take effect immediately but rather the next time the management agent makes a pass over the mailbox. If everything's correctly configured, you should find the mails you expect to be gone will be gone overnight. 

There's no internal ESX feature that'll help you with this, so you should treat the work as you would 2 physical servers (copy over the network with an appropriate tool). If the VMs are running on the same host, you may be able to create a dedicated vSwitch, purely for internal traffic, and achieve a quicker copy. One other approach which may be sustainable is to create a dedicated LUN for this data, and attach it directly into the VM to copy your data in. 

If it's a one-time cut-off at the 3-months or older mark, you can achieve this by using exmerge to take all mail older than 3 months and dump it out to a PST for each user. You could then back these PSTs up, and either make them available to users on a network share (where you can add and remove the ability for a user to open the PST as you wish), or give the user a copy to load locally onto their machine (faster and less network space requirements, but you'll have no control over when the user can and can't access the PST. If you're looking to keep a constant 3-month retention period on users mail files, you could look at a solution like MailMarshal, or externally something like Postini or Messagelabs mail archiving features. You can couple that with an email policy that'll clear files older than 3 months out of everyone's mailbox. With all of the above options you can set read-only so that users can interact with the archive but not delete/alter old emails. 

Administration FSRM requires local administrator privileges on the FSRM host server (Source). When you upgrade a server to a domain controller, it ceases to have any local accounts at all. All of it's accounts become domain accounts. It's local administrator becomes the domain administrator account. At this point, the local administrator of the server and the domain administrator are one and the same thing. Since FSRM requires local administrator permissions to configure, and your server is a domain controller with no local accounts, you are now in a situation where you must have domain administrator privilege to administrate your FSRM instance. Your possible solutions for this are: 

It may not have to do with the SSIDs at all. You may want to take a look at the wireless controller itself. At one place I worked we ran two wireless networks from the same controller, one for guests and a secured one for users. What we found was that there would be random losses of connections or, at times, one of the networks would disappear. Eventually, we gave each network its own dedicated controller and the issues were resolved. Granted, this may not be the optimal solution, but it may be something you would want to look into. 

It all basically comes down to personal preference. Linux distributions are sort of like cars. All of them will get you to where you want to go, it's just that individually they look different, have different feels to them, and that some may require more maintenance than others. If it is your first go around, I would use Ubuntu. That being said, don't hesitate to check other distributions out. 

As it turns out, the problems with the display had to do with some outdated custom plugins that were designed for the Access implementation. 

I find that a lot of the mailing lists at seclists.org have a lot of good information on security news, software vulnerabilities, and general security questions. **EDIT:**You may also want to check out this .opml file. It's a list of blogs and RSS feeds that Paul Asadoorian of PaulDotCom fame subscribes to. There quite a few feeds in there ranging on all sorts of topics from hacking to information security. 

Definitely get a whiteboard. You can use it to setup to do lists, draw up configurations to visualize the problem, and much more. It's also good for when you have a group discussing solutions to network problems. 

From what I understand, it also depends on the file system on the drive. Some file systems are more resilient to things like disk fragmentation. 

You can disable RDNS lookups but you'll be reducing security somewhat. Check your system time is accurate on all the servers involved. Check the email that is arriving hasn't already been run through spamassassin before it reaches your spamassassin server, as that triggers the ENC_HEADER rule. 

Unfortunately there is no way to accomplish this, unless it's catered for as a feature of the particular games you're running. Your choices are to either bind a separate public IP to each different instance of the same game (which isn't an option if you only hold a single public IP), or specify the port number when you tell people about the server. There's a workaround for this when dealing with HTTP traffic, but that only works because a connecting client talks to the server and provides information to the server about what it thinks it's trying to connect to (ie it tells the server it's connecting to what DNS name it's trying to reach, when it connects). This allows the server to make a choice about what content to serve to the client. However, it doesn't bump anything to a different port. 

Yep. Console onto the server OS itself and use the hponcfg app to dump and edit the iLo configuration. Best bet is to dump the current config to a file, edit, then re-up. 

Do some discovery to work out where each app is storing the settings that the user inputs on those 'first run' dialogs. I'm guessing most of them will be in the registry or INI files. Then pre-populate those reg keys and config files. If you can't do it by pre-baking the profile, try via a login script. 

If you're simply looking for a tool to sweep your network and tell you how many 'nodes' (devices) are active right now, then Angry IP Scanner is about as simple as it gets. You feed it your network address range, and it tests every possible IP in that range to determine if it's alive.