When Cisco says "these commands may adversely affect device performance", they aren't kidding. On the types of devices with the traffic load you describe, this command will likely result in 100% CPU consumption, halting of device functionality and major disruption of your network. Don't do it. 

I attempted to replicate this problem in my home lab (albeit on Cisco equipment) and was unable to: inter-VLAN routing worked fine on that setup. At this point, I'm kinda stumped. Dell tech support wanted us to create a separate VLAN for each switch, and static-route between them. No thanks. All thoughts / input appreciated! 

One of the reasons you can't ping is that your ASA configuration lacks ICMP and ICMP ERROR inspect. Modify your configuration to include the following commands: 

Short answer: No. Long answer: IP addresses aren't determined by geographical reason insomuch as the geographical region simply might only have a certain block assigned to it. Example: North Korea has a relatively small block of IP addresses, which makes it easy to tell when someone from that country has visited your website. In the case of the USA, France, Germany, South Korea, Japan or others, the number of IP blocks assigned to their ISPs is much greater, so simply glancing at an IP to see if it starts with a certain number won't necessarily guarantee that that entire network is assigned to a single geographical region. With regards to ping times, ping time is determined by a great number of factors, including but not limited to: 

There are many freeware applications suited for this task, some can even run on your phone. Check out this list by Network World: $URL$ Furthermore, a handy Android app is "WiFi Analyzer": $URL$ The above app will show you graphical representations of shared channel overlap, as well as other stats like signal strength, etc. - very handy for mapping signal strengths. In terms of technique for your survey, a solid course of action would be: 1: Submit your Plan of Action for approval: Since this is a .gov facility, you'll likely need to comply with their in-house Information Assurance & Change Control guidelines - this will entail putting together your plan-of-action (things you will do) and if need be, a back-out plan (how you'll restore service(s) if something goes wrong). Note that this plan of action should also include the software you'll be running to scan WiFi signals, so that they understand you're not doing something nefarious like sniffing without permission. 2: Obtain a floor-plan, and note the zones which your wifi will be required to cover: Mark these zones with unique identifiers like "Zone A", which will allow you to easily name and track your WiFi mesh nodes ie: "GOV-WAP-A2" - this will facilitate ease of maintenance in case someone else is called in to work on your setup. 3: Using your above zones, map the signal strengths of each existing WiFi signal in the areas you're supposed to cover - choose the WiFi channel which is least-used in that zone to be the channel used by that AP (or multiple APs, depending on your type of coverage / service-set). Record this zone data as part of your survey and note it in your design document. 4: After your APs are configured with the proper channels / etc you desire, do a second site-survey and note signal strengths of all APs in each zone as needed, and do a full walk-thru with a constant "ping" running, to watch WiFi handoff between APs, and adjust accordingly. Note all signal strengths in your final report, so that they can see what you've delivered. NOTE: With .gov projects, documentation is a huge part - depending on the agency, you may be held accountable in the future if your work is not up-to-spec with what they expect. Good luck! 

The support company says they can't see the computer on our end. After a lot of troubleshooting they say, it is our firewall because it isn't allowing ACK packets to come back through. This worked when it was running on Windows XP so, I really don't think that is the issue. I did try this with the Windows firewall disabled with no luck. My understanding with the following output is, ACKs are coming back through. According to our network manager ACKs aren't allowed to come back through. I can't get a packet capture on the other side of the firewall. I get the following output (sanitized) in wireshark 

Firewalls are a week area for me, can someone explain to me about ACK's not being allow back through and how that works or why that is a security risk if allowed? What do you suggest the next step to be? 

We have several issues with disconnects, freezing, web session resets, and other goofy things with applications that access resources over the internet. My biggest problem has been outlook using RCP over HTTPS (MS Outlook). I expect this because our internet connection is over loaded. Here is the kicker, the problem with Outlook happens even when bandwidth usage is low. I was helping with troubleshooting another issue and happened to notice Flow-Control is disabled on the Ethernet ports for the switch (I know it is default, I just never really thought about it). Well most computers have it enabled by default. Just because I hadn't tried it before, I disabled Ethernet Flow-Control on my computer and now Outlook and my other internet accessible apps are working appropriately (no disconnects, resets, or session loss). I don’t want to test this change in other areas without having a little more information, so I have a couple of questions. Is this a fluke, if not why would this happen and does it mean that I need to increase my buffers? Anything else I may be missing? I have ran perfmon in Windows 7 looking at the NIC and Packet Outbound and receive errors are generally pretty low if at all. 

Example: I can ping Google's root DNS server 8.8.8.8 from my home internet and get about 40ms, through 12 (!) hops, yet I get a under-1ms ping to 8.8.8.8 from another location in the same city, from a different ISP, on a faster connection, through only four hops. 

I'm having an issue with an ACL on a VLAN interface. I've followed HP's documentation here: $URL$ I want to do the following: VLAN 101 should only be able to communicate to VLAN 50 - no other VLANs, no internet access. Initially, I tried the following access list: 

I'm guessing that the UTM package is somehow putting a strain on the SRX, but I don't know enough about the SRX platform to troubleshoot this properly. Suggestions appreciated. 

It looks like this problem is due to the way that HP's networking gear handles ACLs versus Cisco (which is my networking background). According to this document, HP ACLs are stateless, and must contain bidirectional traffic entries (for originating traffic and return traffic): $URL$ (Link to PDF on HP's site). This is in contrast to the Advanced Traffic Management guide above, which displays configuration examples that do not implement or account for this "quirk": the examples contain no such return traffic entries. Lessons Learned: Do not trust manufacturer documentation to be consistent and accurate. 

You must construct your access list(s) in a a fashion which explicitly targets the traffic and / or hosts you wish to permit or deny, in this case, Host 1 and Host 2. Example: 

802.3ad Link Aggregation serves to bond multiple, individual physical interfaces into a single, logical virtual interface: a "port-channel". The virtual interface of the port-channel controls the traffic across all interfaces which are members of it. Think of the port-channel being the supervisor and the individual interfaces being the employees: the port-channel tells everyone else what to do. Understanding the underlying code and mechanisms that Cisco uses to perform this task is outside the scope of your studies. The following document should suffice: $URL$ 

We have a system using Windows 7 that connects to a piece of equipment directly using a crossover cable on NIC1 and it connects to the network on NIC2. It seems to communicate with everything it is supposed to just fine with the exception of one thing. The problem is a support program on the computer is supposed to communicate with the company that supports that piece of equipment over the internet. It uses three services: 

An XMPP Service - Netstat shows it connecting An RDP Service - Not connecting. I think this is initiated by the support end. A Telemetry service - I don't know if this has to be initiated by support. 

The support company has the following in their documentation: Equipment requires outbound communication on port 443 TLS. Incoming ports don't need to be opened. IP ACK messages much be allowed back through the firewall. No VPN Required due to TSL over 443. Addendum: I forgot to mention a couple of things. All of the packets look like they are appropriately ACK'ed in order. I think Wireshark is just calling it SSL traffic because it is using port 443. It looks more like unencrypted jabber (XMPP) traffic, so I am really confused by that. I was going to upload another screen capture of the wireshark output with all three streams in it but I think the frame numbers might confuse things. There are three streams in this capture and they all have the same data in them. There aren't any retransmits. I did a 20 minute capture that has a few in them but that was probably due to bandwidth congestion on our internet connection (time of day thing). I am going to get with the Support Company tomorrow and get them to look at what you all said. I think it will be very useful. 

The fix is to granularly apply an IDP policy which applies only to traffic you care a lot about and judiciously choose your applied signatures based upon needs versus performance impact. 

Solution: The commands on VLANs on the access switches for VLAN association with subnet are the root cause of the issue. 

I'm refining a Juniper SRX 210 UTM IDP implementation in a small business. I'm new to Junos, so I'm hoping someone will be able to point me in the best-practices direction. The customer initially reported that tests using things like Speakeasy bandwidth test shows OK download speeds, but the upload speeds are cut in half; With a 50mbps synchronous connection, they're getting 50mbps down, but only 25mbps up. I'm hazarding a guess that this is because the SRX is inspecting these traffic types in detail as they exit the device. The SRX 210 data sheet says it is capable of 65mbps IPS performance, but I'm not seeing that. Additionally, the log displays the following messages whenever I run a "speed test": 

...this results in clients on the VLAN being able to ping their default gateway, but not the 50.1 gateway. That doesn't make any sense to me - the VLAN 101 IP interface should be considered logically "inside" that VLAN 101, correct? I have tried various versions of this access list, even going so far as to do just a standard access list blocking a single IP yet permitting everything else with a "permit ip any any" statement - and this still results in zero inter or intra-vlan traffic - the host on that VLAN can't even ping its own gateway if I apply the list in the inbound direction (I also tried a variant in the outbound direction - exactly the same result!) Below is the switch configuration: 

This configuration results in zero communication on that VLAN: The IP of 192.168.101.2 on port A1 cannot ping 192.168.101.1, the switch VLAN IP. If I change the access list to: