But that might not work either so try and use which inherently waits for everything to finish processing before exiting. 

You cannot do anything more, or special with the B+ other than connect a few more GPIO. Software is all the same across A,B and B+. B and B+ already have maximum RAM of 512MB SDRAM. The main differences are: 

Then you configure the SPA3102 to forward calls to uElastix and you can write custom scripts in Asterisk to execute PHP files, Bash Scripts or anything you want! TIPS 

You can try and use the bash invocation read and execute and quoted command line (This is supposed to solve character escaping) 

I am connected to my dedicated wireless N network at 95% signal on my Pi. On my other computers I can get a nice steady 40~50 mbps (~5 mb/s) copying from my Ubuntu NAS. I am trying to stream video to a server that does motion detection,etc. The problem is that using custom mjpg on wireless gives me 0.7FPS - Wired is 7FPS(Which is good) and using RTSP on Wifi just buffers the whole time and is unwatchable while on LAN its 25FPS no probs! 

But in this case its pretty simple, System.IO.FileNotFoundException You may need to go the refrences you added, right click on them and set the to True. This will then copy and references on your Dev machine, to when you publish the code. You can also, just manually add the DLL to the BIN, since that is the first place .NET looks, then it tries GAC and other places. 

This seems to be a Raspberry Pi 2 specific... but also new kernel to support armv7 that only occurs with specific models of the Seagate drives. You have a two options really: 

If that has not fixed the issue then this simple yet highly effective step fixes the problem most of the time. 

All it requires is a switch of some kind to a voltage. It can be a Mosfet switch, triac, optocoupler (like in diagram) or a relay. Trigger the switch with a PIN. Remember though, this stuff heats up (not sure how fast)! It has a ohms per meter specification too and a cool down period, depending on thickness. Its best to put a resistor on the negative side too to avoid short circuit by using Ohms law to calcalat e safe voltage drop. 5v to 2v for example. 

The answer is Yes. It is powerful enough! But only for certain frequencies- As pointed out already because of the limitations. SO! -> You have to ask your self what you want to measure? 

So a 5A regualted power supply will be happy to provide you with 25WATTS of continuous power at ~95%, allowing peak overload currents (connecting devices, spin ups, initial start, etc) without Voltage drops! The solution requires DIY And in your case allot of it! Chopping into the USB cable, cutting the RED +5V and stripping the BLACK GND. You don't want to back feed the Pi's (But you could power the Pi's like this too! But that is another way) It is essential the GND stays connected as GND is used to filter out noise. As pictured in these steps, 1,2,3. LEFT THE PI, RIGHT THE HDD, BOTTOM THE POWER SUPPLY 

That is why it seems to be popular for adapters like this, that avoid cutting the cables and should work with 5 volts no longer than 6foot away, otherwise you need 12volts with a step down DC-DC for up to 30metres. 

on the PI before switching: apt-get install btrfs-tools 2. From a linux computer: btrfs-convert /dev/sda2 In change to In change to 

Ok, It seems like I found a way. First, make sure the spi module is enabled. In the file comment out the line: 

Vcc and Vref to +3.3 Analog Ground to Ground SCLK to SP10 SCLK CS/SHDN to SP10 CE0 N CH0 to some resistor (or what you want to measure) Digital ground to ground Din to SPI MOSI Dout to SPI MISO 

Upgrading from 56.0.2924.84 to 60.0.3112.89 and using Debian Stretch seemed to have solved the problem. You can download a distro and see its working with version 0.8. And how it fails in version 0.7. Here is the current gpu tab: 

For a 3D print server you can try using OctoPi. Its a distro for the Raspberry Pi which currently supports uploading and printing gcode via a web interface and time-lapse videos using a webcam. Slicing on the Pi is a problem due to lack of memory, but it might be solved in the long run. 

I have the following configuration: A Raspberry Pi model B connected to a powered USB hub, with the +5V detached from it (otherwise the hub powers the Pi due to backfeed). They work fine together and I can plug in many hi-powered devices, such as wifi adapters. I want to connect to it an unpowered external western digital harddrive. When I plug it to my laptop it shows up as: 

The reason I suggest that is that you might find it useful to install things to a virtualenv and not damage you system from dependency problems which are likely to rise from offline installations. 

I am building a raspbian-based distro (FullPageOS), and it seems like on boot of the latest Jessie sntp service is running, internet connection is established, but sntp is not updating the clock to the current date. This is particularly annoying because all the https certificates become invalid because of this. I know that running this fixes the issue from the commandline: 

Note, there seem to be disabled items in the detected problems, perhaps one of them is the one that cased the crash: 

I maintain a distro that runs chromium called FullePageOS. I added gpu acceleration, but now mp4 video crashes the chromium tab when its viewed (mpeg works). How can I fix this? Alternatively how do I figure out exactly what is causing chromium to crash? More info: I am using kernel 4.4.34-v7+ and Chromium Version 51.0.2704.91 Its a bug I can see on FullPageOS RC1, here is link to the bug with conversation on github. Update: Terminal output is: 

I thought I might experement with btrfs as the root partition to see how it handles file corruption during power cuts. But I can't get it to boot. What I did: 

You could do that, using android's USB tethering. On android 4 this option should be at (option becomes enabled when you plug the USB to the PI). Then you need to set up your PI for this: 1) add the following to /etc/network/interfaces: 

There is a project called webiopi. The project has a python lib that supports a couple ADCs. The supported ADCs are listed in this page and include the MCP3204. To install just the python library I used: 

I got a 2.1A power supply for the USB hub and now it detects it correctly. I guess the drive draws more than 1A of power. 

I have an MCP3204 12-bit Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC), and a Raspberrypi. Does anyone know what I need to plug where to get them to communicate? Is there an SPI python library I can use? O am looking to use the onboard GPIO spi which is faster than bit-bangging. Schematic of MCP3204 Pin Diagram of The PI: 

Because vendors try and squeeze everything in to the smallest area this usually means that they will generate a lot of area heat. Solution? There is no solution but try and research another WiFi adapter that runs cool. You can try and run your network in open mode and see if that helps cool it down. This is not a long term solution obviously. Disclaimer Because all Wireless chip vendors keep their designs secret.. there is no actual way to prove or disprove my answer with factual references. Each chip vender have their own design and some USB adapter get hotter than others. 

The Pi cannot record Audio without an extra USB card. The problem is, the Pi wont be able to do any kind of audio for you here. It might just be a really overpowered board to run this GSM. One option is tho install RasPBX (Asterisk server) for VoiP. That will make sense. You can then connect all phones in your house (Using a SIP Client) to the Pi. You can call each other when in the same network, or if the GSM shield gets a call then all SIP clients will ring, audio recording. But you need to be able to record audio on the Pi. USB Sound card. The other options are to use the Shield as a way to send and receive data in remote locations, where only GPRS is available. Sometimes when its really bad you can still use SMS messages to send and receive data. 

The Pi is the "command and control centre" and it happens to run at 3.3v logic. That is pretty standard for like MCU's like Arduino. You also get 5v versions. Neither is correct or incorrect. You build high power infrastructure around the MCU/controller. You don't need the breakout board if you know how to wire up the servos. The fact is that you WILL need extra components to run the servos. RC servo controllers units for remote control hobby vehicles are specifically designed to work in a plug and use situation. They also provide high current on all pins. So you can drive like 100watt electric engines / servos / RC / etc. The Pi DOES NOT provide high current GPIO. Connecting things like that direct to them will burn out the channels. You need to treat the GPIO like delicate, highly tuned instruments that instruct bigger, bulkier things what to do , via logic/level shifters. The Pi is all about prototyping and breakout boards will help every step of the way until you ready to create your own circuit or spider everything together. 

I am not sure how it exactly works in USA with 3G but usually you need to get a SIM card from a GSM provider that has data plan. 

It sounds like you have connected your Pi to your mobile phone to give it internet access. Ad-Hoc is a one-to-one network connection, so the topology looks like this. 

Software for the LCD screen and trigger a GPIO ON(HIGH) and OFF(LOW) Low voltage relay control system 3.3v (GPIO) High voltage control system (12 volt) 

You can stream video from the Pi's to anywhere using UPD packet retransmission of the RAW stream from the cameras. This is very easy and basically has very low lag, we talking about 50ms max. Given your Ethernet has a good connection between the Pi's. You can use gstreamer for this (but requires good knowledge of gstreamer) The problem is that the receiver then has to render the stream that is coming in and another problem is that the Raspberyy pi h264 encoder on the original Pi does not include time frames (which causes UDP and TCP transmission to fail to synchronise) There are scripts that fix that though. But depending on what you are doing on the receiver Pi maybe the raw h264 stream is all you need. UDP transmission is faster than TCP but your receiver has to be able to cope with packet loss. But on a local LAN that is practically never. Please search this QA for answers about streaming video. You will find a few answers with allot of resources but you may have to go really low level to get what you need.