The Cisco support forum seems to indicate that this switch is pre-standard and therefore doesn't support AF or AT. 

No. When you are transferring data between computers on your local LAN that data is only traversing the gig E switch you speak of and doesn't touch the router. 

Shortly someone will tell you that questions about home networks are off topic and will give a link to the rules for this forum. However, an Ethernet's link speed is always predicated upon the device it is plugged into at the physical and MAC layers. The IP (network) connection to some other device has no impact on your link speed. So, if your switch is Gigabit and the machines plugged into it have Gigabit interfaces then they should negotiate a Gigabit link speed. As you mentioned your router being FastE will negotiate a FastEthernet connection with the switch. Your wireless devices with always negotiate some link speed within the capabilities of whatever 802.xx protocol you are utilizing. 

The problem is that the peering address range that the 3rd party is using periodically changes and brings down the primary tunnel and a manual switch to the secondary tunnel is being cumbersomely carried out. 

If AS 6501 is willing be a transit AS then they would be able to route to your /8' however it may also depend on whether you obtained your /8 from the said ISP or not. In terms of good literature then would always highly recommend 'Routing TCP/IP Vol2' by Jeff Doyle & 'Internet Routing Architectures' by Sam Halabi. 

I have a network with resilient gateways whereby Customer sites use a default gateway to reach the internet edge routers and the primary route for traffic uses a lower metric. ipsec tunnels are initiated from vpn concentrators behind the edge routers and are statically configured to the destination tunnel endpoints which are 3rd party data centers. I am not able to use a dynamic routing protocol with the 3rd party. 

It appears to me that the only real questions that you ask is for comments about Fortinet. You probably aren't going to like this but I can see what might have been some motivation for their decision. (Please keep reading I promise I have a point to make.) One of the true shortcomings (my opinion of course) of VRRP has to do with the amount of idle hardware that it employs. That is, if you want redundancy for LAN-A you must install and configure 2 routers - one as a primary router and the other as backup. The backup does very little all day long but monitor the primary router and if the primary never fails the backup might never route a single packet. If you have a need for secondary addresses then you can possibly split the workload (maybe even load balance) across those very two routers. Allow me to attempt to demonstrate: Let's say you have 2 IP subnets (172.22.1.0/24 and 172.22.2.0/24) in use hanging from the same router interface and desrie to employ VRRP for redundancy. You could (add a second router obviously) service the first subnet (172.22.1.0/24) with VRRP instance 1 utilizing router-A as primary and router-B as backup. You could then service the second subnet (172.22.2.0/24) with VRRP instance 2 utilizing router-B as primary and router-A as backup. Thus tasking both routers with full time duties (possibly load balancing) at the same time you are providing redundancy for both subnets. Now you no longer have idle hardware. Having said all of that you are correct that interoperability might be difficult with other manufacturers if/when one of them doesn't employ an entire standard. I desperately hope you find this helpful in some small way. 

Sorry I am new to 10G BASE-SR and I can't seem to find a good resource that can confirm if an SFP supported in a Cisco Nexus 5548UP will be compatible with a new service The new service is described as '10 Gigabit Ethernet LAN PHY IEEE 10G BASE-LR10.3125 Gbps +/- 100 ppm 1310nm' Ultimately I need to understand if a 'cisco sfp-10g-sr' for which the transmitter wavelength spec is described as 850nm is usable. 

If in different networks then pc A will determine if pc B resides on the same subnet or not by doing a binary AND operation that compares its own address and subnet mask with that of the destination address. If not within the same subnet then pc A will send the frame to its default gateway which is the router in this case, which will in turn send it onwards to the destination host if it has a determined path to that address. The router will reply to the arp with the mac address of the gateway. The router will strip off the source mac address and replace it with its own before exiting the egress interface. 

Short answer is no. Link speed and duplex negotiation is between a NIC and a port on a network (usually a switch port) not with the network itself. Collisions can only occur once you have established your connection to the network and are attempting to transmit a frame. 

If I understand what you are asking for then you could do the following: Create 4 different vlans in two different switches trunk them over the one cable that you have available. Architecture would look like: ---4 Ethernet connections - switch(A) with 4 vlans - single Ethernet trunk connection - switch(B) with same 4 vlans - 4 Ethernet connections --- 

pfsense will bridge. Seems to me the easiest route would be to isolate the two machines behind your pfsense box and bridge the outside interface with the inside. No reconfig of IP yet you have the separation you desire. You could even do some port forwarding if you wanted access to your server from the outside LAN. 

I find that an easy way to calculate this is if you recall your mask combinations against their powers of 2 within the binary 8 bits of an octet: 

I have a requirement to provide an accurate means to demonstrate line performance over a flat layer2 1Gb point-to-point Ethernet circuit, approx 100 miles apart that seemingly goes through a number of hops over the distance. The business requirement will need to demonstrate performance with an accuracy of min 8ms latency. The link will carry voice and data traffic whereby the service SLA should guarantee 1000Mb bandwidth. What are the known accurate methods of measuring performance given these requirements? I am aware of a number of metrics available that might possible form a test strategy but having Googled a bunch of info it can get overwhelming and i'm unclear of whether software like iPerth should be used, what's the benchmark for this scenario etc? 

It might be helpful for you to start a packet trace (with something like wireshark) you will see that the first thing your local machine does when you issue the ping command is broadcast an APR packet (assuming it isn't already in the arp table) to the IP address you are trying to reach. Example: 

Just for clarity I am assuming your layout is: Internet - FW - 10.1.1.0/27 - r1 - 10.1.1.80/30 - r2 - 10.1.1.64/28 You mention that you are running a routing protocol (RIPv2) on all devices. Assuming that includes the firewall and all things are configured correctly the firewall should have a route back to the other 2 networks (10.1.1.80 & 10.1.1.64). Can you confirm that you can ping these from the firewall? You state that you can ping all interfaces on both routers but you don't specify the source you are pinging from. You don't mention a default route in your routers so I will guess that is where the problem lies. If your routing protocol is operating properly your firewall is going to be a node hanging off of the 10.1.1.0 network. If you don't specifically tell R1 and R2 to utilize it as the default they won't. Here is a document on the Cisco website on the subject: Gateway of last resort. 

Make sure your network statement within the dhcp block of config covers these addresses in terms of the subnet mask it is using and the addresses should get assigned going fwd. 

Whilst I understand that product recommendations are off topic can anyone help by explaining what the critical factors are when looking for SFPs that are going to be compatible with a new service? Is wavelength a defining factor that should be considered/matched or should anything else be used to guide selection? 

Can how can I most efficiently failover between tunnels in this scenario if the destination IPs are not reliable for the static ipsec configuration? How would I pre-empt the primary tunnel once the endpoint becomes available? 

I am familiar with the arp cache being relative to the default age timer regardless of whether a packet has been seen or not and that the router should refresh entries by sending an update arp request before the default 240 mins have expired in Cisco, however... a) Do the entries from host mac addresses always get flushed when physical cables are unplugged? b) Is this platform dependent and does the behaviour vary amongst different vendors too? c) Not sure if it is a bug/card issue or not but i am seeing an entry retained even when the line protocol is down, so would appreciate views on the expected behaviour? 

Once your local machine has the MAC address of the device your trying to reach it then assembles an ICMP (ping) packet with the destination MAC/IP combination. So your correct that the destination packet is a particular IP but that packet is then wrapped in a MAC frame and sent. Hope that helps. 

Until you set a route in your PCs they don't know what to do with the packets. Type "route print" in a command prompt of your windows PC. You will see a route to your local network but no route to anywhere else. Once you set the default route then the machine knows where to send packets. 

I think the easiest way is going to depend on the capabilities of your switches. If they have SFP ports then the easiest way would be to install the correct fiber module and connect the new fiber port in your switch to your existing fiber with a patch cable (pay close attention to connectors). If your switches are void of such technology and you don't have the budget to procure new ones then you are relegated to media converters. (Keep in mind, media converters are a stop gap measure.) Single fiber optics I believe are not very prevalent, so sticking with your desire for easy I would not pursue them unless you are low on available fiber and desire to preserve what is left. 

Is there a better way of achieving this instead of having to translate and explicitly send everything via the ASA firewalls between the internet access, dmz and lan users? I would prefer to have the firewalls in the direct path between the routers and switches to simplify their configs but not sure how else I can retain the HSRP communication between sites if placed other than depicted in the diagram? Does it actually matter where the ASA sits from a security perspective? 

As commented you are best using another IGP because of the limitation of RIPs infinite metric. However you can configure individual ports to add more than one or alternatively configure offset lists to increase the advertised routes based on network address. RIP normally increases the cost by adding one to the route’s metric before storing the route so to alter this you can change the amount that an individual port adds to the metric of a Learned route, for example to increase port cost then use: interface FastEthernet0/1 ip metric 5 Alternatively lookup using an offset list to use an access list to point to a specific network you wish to influence (and in which direction). An example resource is here: offset list blog 

To permit a range of IP addresses you need to apply the proper inverse mask. The concepts are covered in Configuring IP Access Lists. However your range of addresses is dictated by the mask you choose. You cannot pick a range that crosses mask boundaries like you are requesting. So an ACL for a range of 100 addresses could be 0.0.0.127. Example: permit ip 192.168.1.0 0.0.0.127 This permit statement will give you the number of addresses you require but it dictates that the available range is 192.168.1.1 - 192.168.1.127. If you absolutely must use the range of addresses that you laid out you could permit in several smaller masked ranges. For instance - permit ip 192.168.1.128 0.0.0.63 

The preamble is simply a series of 1s and 0s that signal the start of a packet. At the end of the preamble is a sfd (start frame delimiter) that signals the actual start of the Ethernet frame. The very next byte is the beginning of the destination MAC address. So yes the synchronization bits (preamble) are on the same signal path.