this is getting weirder and weirder: without changing anything on my system, I was ready to pack it in and just reinstall Windows with an in-place install. So I clicked on control panel one last time. It worked like a champ. Right now everything is working. Keeping my fingers crossed! :-) 

I ran an SFC on my system and it tells me that there were some "Integrity Violations" and to see the log file for more details. So I was able to open it up in Notepad, but I have no idea what I'm looking at. Anybody have an idea? Ross 

This will push nothing (the part before the colon) to your origin server and overwrite master. In other words, it should delete the master branch remotely. 

If you are using compiz as your windows manager, i.e. if you have enabled visual effects, simply install the package. The start the settings manager via -> -> . Now find the settings for the module and you can assign any keypress of your liking to the and commands. 

I guess the point is that the rotate tool rotate a layer or a selection. Thus if you have other layers, the grid will tell you how your transformation maps to those other layers. I don't think it's possible to have a fixed grid (what would be the point), but you can choose the "direction" of the rotation. The default is "Normal (Forward)". But if you chose "Corrective (Backward)", the image will remain static while the grid rotates. Still not the same thing as in Picasa, but maybe closer to what you want? 

I'm trying to design some buttons with a rollover behavior: changing either color or shape or both based upon hover status. My artistic skills are between zero and nil. Can you recommend a "roll your own" button designer? 

There are things I much prefer in Outlook Express to Windows Live Mail: one of those things is the ability to create a Mail Rule whilst viewing a message. You would simply do so andthe new rule would be created with the dialog box and all of its options/values filled in appropriately. Am I simply missing this or did this ability simply not make the cut? Ross 

In the directory where the Tumbs.db file is located. This will only help for that single directory. In your home directory. This will then apply do anything you do with cvs no matter what repository you are using. In your CVSROOT directory. This will apply to all modules that belong to this repository. 

Keep in mind that a laptop's screen is usually much closer to your eyes than a regular desktop monitor. 

If you want cvs to ignore files named Thumbs.db, why do you tell it to ignore files named ? Simply add to your and you're done. EDIT: There are several candidates for the location of the file: 

With a lot of traveling to various hotels with free Wi-Fi I have collected a number of sites in the system tray when I clicked on the network icon. I doubt highly that I will return to these hotels and so the various sites will not be needed again. How do I remove the sites – where are they even stored? I went browsing through the registry and could not find them. (Were talking about 25-35 sites I want to blow away) any ideas/suggestions? Thank you. Ross 

I have a little shell script that I run automatically when I log on to my Ubuntu machine; it will set the parameters of my touchpad the way I like it. However, when Ubuntu wakes up after being hibernated or suspended, my touchpad reverts to its default state and I have to run my little script again. Is there some way I can automate this process thus that the script will be magically called when the machine wakes up again? 

No. Of course, you can ctrl-u and search for the tooltip in the html source or you can make a screen shot, but I guess that's not what you're after. 

I have an external hard drive, attached to a USB port, that used to format to about 700 gigs. I use Acronis to make nightly backups of my C: drive, my system drive. Suddenly my log file showed that there wasn't enough room on the USB drive to make a copy – I make a copy that replaces last night's copy. It has worked flawlessly for at least two or three years. When I went to reformat the drive it reformats but only to 41 GB! I tried using Manage Disks and it, too, only allows for a reformat to 41 GB. what is wrong and how do I fix it? Thanks. Ross 

How about a shared calendar on Google calendar? I admit that it's not really tailored to your task, but it's free, quick to set up, and it should get the job done. 

Another Edit: After Googling around for a bit, it seems that the permissions on your home directory might also be a factor. What is the output of on your system? 

While the little dance defining a sign and placing it works ok, a more elegant alternative that works well for me is: 

after running Netflix for the first time I am unable to listen to two of my favorite stations: $URL$ and $URL$ – although Internet Explorer has no problem playing either of those two radio stations. Firefox has no problem, however, playing Netflix – the sound comes through like a champ. Any suggestions? (I have downloaded a new Firefox and have downloaded a new Flash player – no difference, the same problem) 

Well, it appears this is a local problem,and only with Chrome: two tabs one with www. and without in IE doesn't show the prob but does in Chrome but only on this machine -- maybe a caching prob? Oh well this is quite literally my problem to solve. Thank you everyone!! 

Run and check the tab that's labeled "X Server Display Configuration". Is the driver correctly detecting your monitor? If not, are you able to select the correct resolution on that screen? 

is the default branch for git. I don't know why it's so terrible for you when git tells you how far away from master you are, but if you want to delete a branch on your remote repository, deleting it locally isn't enough. Try this instead: 

Quack's answer is a good start, but it has two problems. Thus I'll try it too: You first have to create a tunnel from your local workstation to the SSH port of machine A. This is easily done from the command line: