I am setting up a new PC, I just installed windows 7 but it doesn't detect the card for what it is (nVidia GTX 760) and the device manager in windows only show a generic "Standard VGA adapter". The nvidia drivers I downloaded say they can't find any supported hardware. I have installed all the drivers that came with the motherboard (ASRock H170 pro4), but to no avail. The BIOS setup detects the nvidia card on the PCI-E slot, but windows just sees a standard VGA adapter. I am using the correct card (the monitor is connected to it, not to the builtin motherboard adapter). The card is ok because I just took it off another PC on which it has been working perfectly since I bought it. What can I do to solve this? 

I'm using Xorg 7.5 on a Radeon HD4870 with the FOSS radeonhd server on my HP 6830s. The laptop has a VGA connector and I attach it to a 37" panasonic plasma TV. It works fine except for a little annoyance: when activated, the TV screen is set to the resolution of 1360x768 (which it reports as being the highest it supports) but all the image is shifted by about 100 pixels to the right. I can't see the leftmost part of the page, and I have a black vertical bar to the right. If I change the resolution to 1024x768 there is no shifting, the image fills the entire screen with no parts hidden, but at this resolution the image is stretched. How can I tune the position on the external monitor so that the image is centered in the screen filling it entirely? 

Is there functionality within standard MS word for data tagging? Being built around XML, it seems like there should be a way to add tags around blocks of text that would not appear when printing, but would allow a user to mark certain lines of text. This would be particularly useful when working with templates where a master template of a document could be created, and when the template is used, the user could tailor the output by filtering out tags that are not needed. The easiest example to explain what I'm looking for would be a document describing a house. There could be sections such as this: 

I am trying to streamline the production of a document that has to be created on a regular basis. There are tasks associated with detailed instructions on how to complete them, and each of these has a specific ID number that is reused across various projects. I sucked up as many of these task IDs as I could into an access database. For each project, somebody else pulls a list of all of the required tasks from another database that I cannot access and puts them into an Excel workbook with a standard format. For each project, I need to: 

I've been a mutt user for years and I was skeptical when I came to know about gmail. After I started using it though, I started to see all the good stuff, mostly the ability to access my email with just a simple browser, the end of email backups and the spam filter. I then tried to go back to a dedicated email client (even using my gmail account via IMAP), but fell back to web based gmail usage every time. So I was wondering, what are there reasons NOT to use it, if any? 

I am trying to extend the range of my home network to reach both floors above mine. I've been given 3 linksys re1000 range extenders but I can't understand if they can work in a cascade. I can get one working perfectly fine, but fail with the others. It looks like the second extender I add further away tries to connect to the main router (thus having poor to none signal) instead of the first extender (which gives a good signal as I tested with my laptop). Is it possible to make them work in sequence? Any particular configuration needed? 

Answering my own question for future reference. I could get the video drivers to recognize my card and install after a full round of windows update. But that wasn't enough since the most recent nVidia drivers seem to not work well with my GTX 760, and right after boot windows kept telling me that the the "Desktop Window Manager" had stopped working. That meant no aero and quite likely (as I read from many other users) general instability especially in games. What finally solved the issue was installing an older version of the nVidia drivers (in my case I tried v. 347.52 as someone else with my problem suggested) and everything is now working fine. 

As simlev has pointed out the error is actually about the problem reaching the DVB device. When exporting the OVF and importing again on another host the configuration of VM might have omitted the DVB tuner, or it could simply be non-existant on the other machine. Check the configuration of the copied Virtual Machine and make sure that the DVB device is passed through exactly as in the source Virtual Machine. Then log in to the cloned VM, and check if the udev rules did not reserve the name of the DVB device from the first esxi, or the tuner on the new VM has another device address like instead of , or perhaps the frontend must be altered (not the same INPUT on the tuner for example, or a different make/model of hardware) I believe it is the problem in addressing the device rather than anything related to BASH itself. 

of the Pi, and some kind of configuration dump from the router (replace the internet address of your router if necessary so no one can spam you) 

The rsync is a good idea, however you must always make changes on the same host, the one the rsync will grab the source from. You would need some basic bash scripts that runs rsync in a loop with option that removes files from the TARGET that are not present in the SOURCE. Run that script in a during startup and you're good to go Another idea is to use some kind of cloud sync, either like Dropbox, or to spool your own owncloud/nextcloud server to do it. And if it's really the code that you're trying to sync, the PROPER industry standard is to use git repository, you can create free one in $URL$ and set both machines to use it, then commit / pull changes whenever needed. 

I have a new external disk and just made an ext3 partition on it. I'm wondering what's the best way to set permissions on it (so that it's rw for certain users). I guess I could but I was thinking of a more dynamic way (kind of like and options for and such). 

I'm having this weird behavior: Firefox (4.0.1, Debian version) is showing the same exact page with two different font sizes if the page is hosted on localhost or a remote server. According to Firebug, rendered font in localhost version is 14.3px while the remote server version is 13px. The size specified via CSS is 13px. Chrome shows both pages with the same size so it's not a server issue. Is there any configuration variable that could increase font size based on host? Or anything else that might cause this? 

Since yesterday my secondary hard disk keeps making noise as if it were reading/writing even if it's unused. It happens regardless of the OS running (both windows7 and linux) and I'm sure it's not used since under linux no partition of that disk is mounted on the filesystem. I can say for sure it's the secondary one as the main disk is an SSD. What could be causing this? 

Writing a macro in excel seemed like a lot of work, but the best bet, but I can't be sure that the access database will always stay in the same place that it belongs. Since the database is the consistent item across all projects, I thought about writing a macro in Access and having a dialog asking where the spreadsheet is would work, but using a table to compare the two lists seemed more complex than simply having a comparison sheet generated within excel. I didn't really consider writing a macro within Word, though that is a possibility too. I am trying to find the most logical way to create this setup. Using 3 different office programs seems fairly convoluted, but I am limited in the software that I have available to accomplish this: 

Each of those tags would surround a section of the document that goes into more detail about what you want to specify about a roof, wall, etc. Now say you want to use that template to make a shed with no windows and no paint. Obviously under usual circumstances, you could just delete the whole window section and paint section. However, details/requirements concerning paint are also part of the walls and doors sections. Rather than having to manually hunt down each place paint appears, it would be nice to be able to hide anything tagged with "paint" from the template. I have looked around but I can't seem to find how to implement this if it's possible. It seems like some people have tried to make this work using quick-text but that seems more suited to making a library of things you want to use over and over rather than making a library of templates that you want to be able to pare down for quick use. 

Looks like there are subfolders in that directory with Z05_USEng/Z05_USEng.m3u8 files inside, try looking inside them for clues 

Have you disconnected the wifi connection ? The problem might be that the wifi is still connected and the default route of the Pi uses that connection. Issue a and search for the - check the src ip and the interface in the definition. Double check that the port is correctly forwarded on the router (destination IP is of the wired interface and both incoming and forwarded ports are the proper ones - the latter being most likely 22) Restart the router. If everything fails paste the outputs of 

You can always use the "switch user" option after logging in to the station. It should be available somewhere in the "shut down" menus 

Try Aida64 to scan and list all hardware in your PC. You can get a free 30 day trial. If that fails you can try some kind of linux liveCD/liveUSB and try your luck there, often it will show more info than windows does. If you fail to get the proper hardware model number it might also be related to your problem - failing hardware that will even fail to report its own model. In that case you can always search the internet with your laptop model number to find out what exactly is in there, or perhaps download the drivers from your laptop maker support webpage, perhaps old but most likely working drivers and this might help you get the model number recognized.