no you can't Round-trip time (RTT), also called round-trip delay, is the time required for a signal pulse or packet to travel from a specific source (IP1) to a specific destination (IP2) and back again. In this context, the source is the computer initiating the signal and the destination is a remote computer or system that receives the signal and re transmits it. user can determine the RTT to and from an IP (Internet Protocol) address by pinging that address. The result depends on various factors including The nature of the transmission medium (copper, optical fiber ) so you can't ignore it 

Network model explain communication between two end devices in terms of layers and explain the responsibility of each layer (OSI model, TCP/IP model). 

this address may be L2 address(mac for example) or L3 address (IPV4 for example) and this address could be source or destination. 

first of all there is no host called 209.85.2.0 this is sort of network , you must configure it as a network not as a host permit udp 209.85.2.0 0.0.0.255 host 192.168.2.5 eq 5060 log second you don't need deny ip any any log deny tcp any any log deny udp any any log cause the access list has its own explicate deny so in your case you just need to permit the type of access you want third you need to know that access list working by the concept of the first match where for example as you configured your access list that is mean ,When any one in 209.85.2.0 need to access host 192.168.2.5 ,this access list will allow only UDP access on port 5060 by its first line. Then you have other 3 cases that won't match this line and will go to next ACL lines 1. Any network other than 209.85.2.0 need to access 192.168.2.5 2. Any one in network 209.85.2.0 need to access anything other than 192.168.2.5 3. Any one need to access any other network your ACL second line means you will permit any one to access anything even 192.168.2.5 on port 5060.which is wrong . if you need to prevent any other network from access this host you just need to insert those 3 lines after your first line deny ip any host 192.168.2.5 log and then insert permit ip any any log which will allow access to other servers from any where 

Using non-default IP addresses with BFD requires special attention. The source IP address being used for BFD sessions can be verified with "show bfd all session detail" command. also you can find useful troubleshooting steps in this link support 

To meet this requirement, you can configure switch ports as protected ports (also referred to as private VLAN edge ports). Protected ports do not forward any traffic to protected ports on the same switch . This means that all traffic passing between protected ports be forwarded through a Layer 3 device. so that just NOTE Protected ports can forward any type of traffic to nonprotected ports, and they forward as usual to all ports on other switches. Dynamically learnt addresses are not retained if the switch is reloaded. 

in terms of server and client communications . based on stream or traffic traffic going from the server to the clients called downstream , and from clients to server called upstream . based on device connections client is up linked to server and server is down linked to clients 

if you want to provide power over Ethernet and your switch couldn't deliver enough power ,may you use power injector , a lot of brands may show a lot of power injectors with variety of o/p power . power injector is something work as in the next shape 

i believe that the problem is in the VRF configuration itself , so please check the next 1. configure 'ip vrf forwarding Customer1-portforwarding' under interfaces involved in NAT (nat inside,nat outside interfaces) 2. if your access list will use the VRF routing table so you need to add 'set vrf Customer1-portforwarding' command under route-map configuration to make use of theVRF routing table 3. make your route-map more specific by set next hop 4. verify NATing by use 'sh ip nat translation' command make use of those URLs NAT over VRF Route-map over VRF 

What is the actual function of the DCE ? , that is to provide clock rate to the DTE on the SERIAL link . This type of communications between two routers called (back to back routers connection) and could be between router on your site (your ownership) and other in ISP ownership, So answer of your questions is YES, DCE is responsible on the data transferee but only on the serial interface, on any other tybe of connection (ethernet) DCE has no control on the data transferee. 

as shown in the figure , the layer 2 switch will be connected to the ip phone with connection called mini trunk which acting as a trunk carry two Vlan's the data one and the voice one . on the ip phone itself there is mini switch which will untag the voice vlan and use it for voice traffic and untag the data vlan and forward it to the pc port . voice traffic is treated this way mainly for one reason that is QOS ,where voice traffic need to be prioritized than the data traffic 

Network Architecture explain the responsibility of each network device based on its location down into 3 locations (Backbone , distribution , edge/access) and describe the responsibility of each tier. 

it may some thing relate to converter which connect your console cable to the USB port in your computer . may you try to used desktop computer with normal serial port and use putty terminal with the next settings 

check SSID VLAN mapping on the AP configuration GUI . you must map the SSID to the proper VLAN to get IP in its range . make use of the NEXT LINK 

multiplexing is the way of send multiple signal on certain time interval or frequency range based on the type of this multiplexing 

a very very useful GUI tool from Cisco called Cisco Network Assistance can help you to discover the entire network with all details you need to know about it.where you can discover your network community by the Rang (start and end IPs) Or by supnet defined with mask and once you start to discover it will discover all the network and will draw the topology layout and rack layout of your devices.even Cisco IP phones and access point