"" returns the inode numbers (the number of "entries" in the "catalog of files"), not the block size (the space used by the files). This is confirmed by the header of "df": Note the "I" in front of each number. Remove the "" and it should give you correct numbers. Use "" for human-readable numbers and block-size expressed in kilobytes. 

You'll find at the "Engineering Windows 7" blog a nice article describing their effort regarding Disk Space. 

Copy the URL of the proxy configuration file (.PAC file) and go to the URL with Firefox. Firefox will either: 

The connection to the older Dell Dimension is most probably not the problem. Did you try to update the firmware of the router? It might solve stability issues with the WAN connection. Maybe it's due to a faulty cable between the router and the modem? Have you tried with another cable? Is it more stable with another wireless router? The last possibility is that the router is defective and should be repaired. 

Not with Sumatra PDF. If you want a browser plugin, you could use the light and free (some advanced features require the not-free Pro version) Foxit Reader. 

to see the content of the DNS cache. If you want to empty it, to force Windows to request a resolution to the DNS server, run the command: 

On the Web interface, use CTRL+Click to select all the unassigned tags at once. Go to Edit and select Delete. You'll get a confirmation message asking if you really want to delete these tags. If you use the Windows client, you can choose to hide all unassigned tags. They're not gone but at least you won't see them. 

Only the 4 first SATA ports (managed by the ICH7DH) are natively supported in the BIOS and can be used for boot devices. The 4 ones connected to the Marvell RAID controller require a driver to work. This means they'll be reachable only when an operating system (you don't specifiy which one you use) loads the required driver. 

SQuirreL SQL is a Java-based application that can connect to several DBMS, providing there is a JDBC driver for it. It's free and open-source. 

I guess you mean command.com, not command.exe. There is no way to get the short filenames in cmd.exe in my opinion. You could use TakeCommand Console LE. It's free and a replacement for cmd.exe with a lot of extra features. It supports autocompletion (with the TAB key) and short filenames. They explain about it in the helpfile: 

I'm afraid the bandwidth of Bluetooth is not sufficient for USB devices, even for USB 1.1 devices. From this page: 

This will create a file (here ) containing the file names (including paths) and their date (in y/m/d format) and time (in h:m:s format). The makes it recursive, so it will pick up files in sub-directories. To avoid problems with space in directories and names, this version of the command uses the "|" sign as delimiter for the fields. Sample file produced by the command above: 

In an elevated command prompt, run the command "powercfg -energy". It will run for a minute and produce a report of the power configuration of your computer, including all events that can bring it out of sleep mode. Also in an elevated command prompt, run "powercfg -lastwake". It should tell you which event or device brought it out of sleep mode the last time. 

Give a try to this iPhone / iTouch icon generator. Strangely, I could not upload an image with Firefox, I had to use IE. 

StExtBar adds a toolbar to Windows Explorer. The right-hand field is used to filter the files. Type a string (part of the filename, or the extension) and you'll see only files matching this string. No support for "*" though. It's a free addon. 

This could cause issues if the directory name contains 1 or more spaces so make sure you enclose the directory with double quotes when calling the batch file. 

The Gadget Bar is named the "Sidebar". There is a "hack" to reinstall the Vista sidebar on Windows 7 but this means replacing files from Windows 7 with the ones from Vista. If you're still OK with this, MyDigitalLife has the instructions on how to do it : "Workaround to Run Windows Vista Bar Style Sidebar in Windows 7" For the Note gadget, you can find several similar gadgets at the Windows Live gallery. This one for instance. Edit: there is something new! This gadget, 7 Sidebar Gadget, creates a sidebar like Vista's and stores the other gadgets inside. No need to hack any files. It also has a window-manager mode with thumbnails of running applications. 

IE8 has a feature where each tab is running in its own process, so if one page makes it crash, the complete browser doesn't go away. It's called "Lousely Coupled IE" (LCIE) and you can read more about it here. Basically you have 1 iexplore.exe for the UI and 1 iexplore.exe for each tab. 

OK, I think I got your point. You want to highlight the complete row if only 1 cell of that row matches a value, right? Put the value you want to match in a cell somewhere (for my example, A1). Select the row(s) where you want to have the conditional formatting. In the Home section of the Ribbon, go to Conditional Formatting, then select New Rule. In the new Formatting Rule windows, select "Use a formula to determine which cells to format". In the field "Format values where the formula is true", enter "=IF(MATCH($A$1;$13:$13;0)>0;TRUE;FALSE)". Change the $A$1 with the cell address where you put the value you want to match, eventually on another sheet. Change the $13:$13 (meaning here row 13) with the row you want to highlight. It works also for any range of cells (B4:C8 for instance). Click the Format... button to select how you want to highlight the rows (border, fill, font, ...). I tested it and it works (in Excel 2007). No need for a macro ;-) . Edit: You can skip storing the value to match in a cell (A1) and hardcode it directly in the formula if you know the value won't change: =IF(MATCH(25;$13:$13;0)>0;TRUE;FALSE 

First, it selects the desktop, then it selects the "My Documents" icon. It sends SHIFT-F10, the shortcut for "right-click". The UP key will select the last item of the menu ("Properties" item for "My Documents") and press ENTER to open it. Tested it on Windows 7 RTM English, except that I replaced "My Documents" with "Recycle Bin" for testing, as there is no "My Documents" in Windows 7. I have no XP to test this unfortunately. I'm not 100% sure about the "CLASS:Progman" entry, although this is old legacy and should be the same for XP. 

I usually delete all files that have been created before the last reboot of the computer. If it's too long, I keep files created the last 3 or 4 days and delete the others. If some are locked because they're in use, no problem as they won't be deleted. 

Would this Chemical Equations Calculator do? If not, there is a lot of hits returned for the search "chemical reaction calculator online". 

No, because when IETab is running, Internet Explorer is handling the content of the tab, not Firefox. The only way is to install an addon to Internet Explorer that does spell checking, like ieSpell or the one included in IE7Pro for instance. This spell checker will be active when a tab using IETab (and thus IE) is open. 

Slipstick (a great reference on all things Outlook) has an explanation on how to clean the whole list. Apparently there is no way to remove specific entries: 

See also this patent from IBM: Interrupt dispatching method in multi-core environment and multi-core processor 

There are the "Internet Explorer Application Compatibility VPC Image" images delivered by Microsoft. They're in the VirtualPC disk format, so I do not know if it can be opened as is by a virtualization software on Ubuntu. Maybe it'll have to be converted for VMWare or VirtualBox. 

Unless an extension brings this back, you cannot switch to list view as they removed the feature. In the source code of the New Tab page, you'll find: 

You should try playing with the KeyWait function and the A_PriorHotKey and A_TimeSincePriorHotkey variables, as explained in the example #4 of the KeyWait documentation. 

A solution would be to buy a NAS (Network Attached Storage) that supports BitTorrent. For instance, QNAP makes such NASes. Apart from providing disk space to computers attached to the LAN, the QNAP NAS boxes have a lot of other features, including: 

Keep CTRL pressed, click on the 2 taskbar buttons for the applications you want to tile (so the 2 buttons are selected), right-click and choose "Tile vertically" from the popup menu. No need for an extra application, it's built in Windows! 

With the syntax instead of the in psexec, you can even run the command on a list of computers. And add a as the end of the command (it's a parameter for ) to get only the content of one value, not the content of the whole key. 

Not that I know, but it can be fixed with an AutoHotkey script. For instance, this will use Win+n to go to the next desktop background: 

It won't help of course with a file already deleted. If you have access to the server, you could try with an undelete utility, but little chances of success. 

You must shrink the DVD files first before being able to burn them to a 4.7 GB DVD media. Or use a dual layer DVD. DVDShrink is one tool to shrink DVDs. It's not new but it always worked good for me. 

Some motherboards support that and have an option in the BIOS to select whether it's the PCI card or the PCI-E card that is used during the POST. But according to the user manual for the P6T-E, it does not have this option in the BIOS. I assume it will always use the PCI-E card. You might give it a try though, PCI graphic card should be fairly cheap nowadays. There is no entry either in the BIOS to select which PCI-E card will be used at boot so I assume it will always use the one in Slot 1. 

Process Lasso can force priorities (and CPU affinity) to processes, along with other features like ProBalance (Process Balance): 

If the DNS server is local to your LAN, I doubt you'll see a noticeable improvement from having the entry in the hosts file. However, if you want to be able to switch easily from one SQL Server to another, it's a very convenient and fast solution, especially if the people managing the DNS are not very quick or eager to help. Windows caches DNS records. In a Command prompt, run 

Can't you just disable the reminders about the backups in the Action Center? Check out this post on How To Geek, many settings about the Action Center are explained. In the Maintenance section, if next to Windows Backup, it says On, click to set it to "Not monitored". 

You shouldn't remove them. Different versions are used by different software. An application could be coded to use the version 2.0. If you have only the 3.5, you would have to reinstall the 2.0. 

With an AutoHotkey script, you can remap the Win+L shortcut and create another one for Sleep (I chose Win+S, normally not used unless you use OneNote): 

RecordTS, from TSFactory, is a RDP client that can record the remote session. It exports them in AVI and SWF (Flash). It's not very cheap unfortunately. You might want to look at ObserveIT too. The Xpress version is free. 

As Rodeey said, there isn't much a difference feature-wise. The advantage of SATA is the thinner cable, so it is easier to route the cable in a cramped case. The cable can also be longer than IDE cables, so you can move the DVD drive to the upper drive bay of a big tower case. 

No, it is not possible. I think it has already been asked on SuperUser. And it's also listed on Windows 7 Taskforce (here for instance). 

I bought a small 32 GB SSD to store the operating system (Windows 7) and my applications. I'll copy the existing boot partition (30 GB) from my harddisk (WD Velociraptor) to the SSD using GParted but I'd like to keep the existing partition intact (keeping all data on it) so I can go back to it if there is a problem with the SSD. How can I hide the partition so it is not visible anymore to Windows? What should I change with GParted? Second question: how can I keep the harddisk partition synced with the SSD so I have a backup? I'm looking for a near real-time solution (not something like Acronis Drive Image). 

Normally you should hover your mouse on the small rectangle on the right of the clock. It will trigger AeroPeek, which makes the windows transparent and let you see the desktop. If you really want a "Show desktop" button on the taskbar, follow this tutorial. You can also use Win + D. 

The "n" in is only valid for an English Windows 7 (Next desktop background). You'll have to change it if your Windows 7 is not in English to match the underlined key. 

Window Spy returns the tab title in the "Visible Window Text" field. You could loop in the tabs until you find the desired text. To switch from tab to tab, send the CTRL+TAB keys. The problem would be to stop at some point but if you know you don't use more than X tabs at most, you can include a counter in the loop to break at some point if the desired tab is not found. 

The first shortcut, the one created during the installation of Office, does not actually point to winword.exe but to a stub executable. It's located at . The directory seems to contain stubs for all Microsoft Office applications. 

No, because the LCD backlight is always on, even if all the light (or most of it) is blocked by the pixels in front of it (thus displaying black). The newer LED-lit LCD screens could eventually save some energy, but not the side-lit LED screens. Check this out: Difference Side-Lit LED versus Direct LED. 

You need a SMART monitor, a program that displays the health statistics of the hard drives. GSmartControl runs on Windows 7 and is free. 

If you created a new bookmark to the same URI but change the "maxResults" parameter, you can increase the number of results returned. Sort order can also be changed. 8 means "Sort by visit count, descending". For your 2nd request, I'm not sure it can be implemented. Play with the "type" parameter, maybe 0, 1 or 2. 

I don't remember how it worked in Outlook 2002, but can't you create a rule that display a "Desktop Alert" when a new mail comes in? If this doesn't work, maybe you'll be interested in the Traylook Add-in for Outlook from Pergenex Software. It looks like it brings notifications more-or-less like the ones of Outlook 2007. But it isn't free. 

You'll find here on Intel's website the page describing the P965 chipset, including CPU compatibility. The maximum speed of Front Side Bus (FSB) supported by this chipset is 1066 MHz. So the higher you can get is a Core 2 Quad Q6700 (8M Cache, 2.66 GHz) or Core 2 Extreme QX6800 (8M Cache, 2.93 GHz, probably too expensive for the limited gain of speed). If you change CPU, make sure it has good enough cooling. 

There are certainly flags in the headers of the executable to indicate some sorts of compatibility, but I suspect it's only linked to 32- or 64-bits, and platform (MIPS, Alpha, PowerPC, Intel, ...) for older (NT3, NT4 times) executables. Normally it's the role if the installer (if any) to check the OS compatibility. If there is no installer, the executable will do its OS compatibility check in the logic of the code itself, not in a known place you could check before running the application. So, I doubt it, it depends where in the code and how the check is done and it changes for each application that does such a check.