I'm trying to use mod_disk_cache to speed up a web site that is running on WordPress. Whenever I enable it with 

Can I use the administrator user of a remote (no domain or anything like that) Windows Server to log in into the SQL Server running on that same machine? That would be, using the same credentials, user and password, as I use when I connect to that server with Remote Desktop. Is there anything special I should do for that? I'm talking about SQL Server 2008 and Windows Server 2008 

I want that when people access my web server with the ip address, like $URL$ be redirected to the domain name, like $URL$ I'm using Apache Web Server and I've tried: 

I'm running the official GlusterFS 3.5 packages on an Ubuntu 12.04 box that is acting as both, client and server, and everything seems to be working fine, except mounting the GlusterFS volumes at boot time. This is what I see in the log files: 

I've just got a Windows Server 2008 which will work as a web server. It has two roles in the Server Manager, one is Application Server (which includes Web Server (IIS) in its Role Services) and the other role is Web Server (IIS). Do I need the Application Server role? Can I remove it? 

I'm trying to figure out why I need so much space for backups using Bacula with SQLite and I've noticed this file: /var/lib/bacula/bacula.db measuring above 500MiB on all the directors. I presume that file also changes every time I run a backup, which means that is backed up in every daily backup. My question is, should I back it up? 

but it seems there's some issue because Puppet keeps trying to install Mongrel in every run. I get tons of these from Puppet: 

will mount it as ext4. This is for an experiment. I want to do it without enabling the new features in ext4 so I can go back to ext3. 

In a production environment on Ubuntu (12.04), should a Rails app be run by a system or a regular user? I'm creating a dedicated user to running the a rails app and I'm not sure whether to create a regular or a system user. 

I'm really confused by this. To do some experiments with GlusterFS I created two virtual machines with VirtualBox, running Ubuntu 12.04, each with 10GB of storage. I wrote a script that created lots of little files in lots of folders. Each file was 100k of random data generated by: 

We are constantly running out of space on our backup server so I want to move the backups to S3. Does it make sense to run Bacula on top of s3fs? Does anybody have experience with that? Is it reliable? What about bandwidth use? Can I expect s3fs to work nicely on Debian 5.0? 

As you can see it not only enables OpenSSH, but also opens up the firewall for it. The problem is when OpenSSH is used in a server that doesn't have a firewall. There I get: 

that page, $URL$ says that there should be another error message nearby. At least in /var/log/syslog, this is all I see: 

For the amount of zones I have, syncing manually ended up being easier than getting any other solution to work. If I had many more zones I'd look into the proposed solutions. 

I wanted to tighten my security so I don't want to open any ports that are not really needed. I have no intentions of running an ntp server for other people to use, I only run the ntp daemon to keep the local clock synced, so I added these two lines to my /etc/ntp.conf: 

thinking that maybe it'll only match $URL$ but not $URL$ But it also generate an infinite loop. Any ideas how to achieve that? The reason why the IP virtual host is not the main and only virtual host is because I want other IPs on the server to also be able to server example.com. 

I had to re-install SQL Server, but if someone else is having the same problem, I'd recommend trying the other solutions first. Just don't have a lot of hope. 

and have you app running on localhost:3000. In the case of Rails, the web server it uses is called Webrick. These small web server are very convenient for development, but they should not be used for production. Security wise they are not necessarily hardened and they are also not optimized for speed. On production environments you should use Nginx or Apache. 

Is there a recommended known-to-work way of caching a WordPress site running on Apache Httpd 2? Should I use a plug in or cache in Apache Httpd? If in Apache Httpd, should it be disk or memory cache? If as a plug in, which one? 

you can create more that 32k directories in a directory. The part I do not know (and I cannot find right now) is whether mounting it as ext4 but with less features enabled let's you create more than 32k directories. 

and it works. I presume the partition is somehow tagged as being ext3. Is it possible to change that to ext4 so that: 

I know this used to be a bug in GlusterFS 3.2 for Ubuntu, but I understand it was solved in the PPA packages for GlusterFS 3.4 as shown here: $URL$ I also remember this working in an experiment I run with some virtual machines (but since it just working, I didn't look too deep into it). I see that the gluster-client packages provides an upstart job called mounting-glusterfs.conf which contains: 

I'm not even sure which program is connecting to the wrong IPs, so I don't know how to start solving it. Can anyone point me in the right direction? My Postfix configuration is pretty standard: 

I'm backing up a Linux box over SMB to a NAS. I mount the NAS locally and then I rsync a lot of data (100GB or so). I believe it's taking an awfully long time to do it: more than 12 hours. I would expected to be much faster once everything is copied since almost nothing is changed from day to day. Is there a way to speed this up? I was thinking that maybe rsync thinks it's working with local hard disks and uses checksum instead of time/size comparisons? But I didn't find a way to force time and date comparisons. Anything else I could check? 

I'm running a server with Ubuntu 12.04 and we have some cron jobs that generate emails we want to receive. For handling that and other mails like that, I installed postfix and configured it to only listen on localhost since I don't want random people even trying to use it as SMTP relay. I can successfully send mail by running: 

Is there a more proper way to define optional attributes? Something more akin to nil or null instead of "none"? 

It seems that configuration is making nptd not use those interfaces at all, not even to connect to other servers. Does ntpd need to listen on external interfaces to be able sync the clock?