Also, just a general tip when choosing a channel manually, try to find one that is as far from any other used channels as possible. With a few special exceptions like channel 14 in the 2.4GHz band most channels partially overlap at least one other channel, so being as far from other channels that are in-use as possible will help reduce interference. 

Your fan is full of dust. This will usually make it noisy, and no lubricant will help here, so you're better off just cleaning out the fan and going about your business. Your fan has open bearings, and the bearings are dirty. Lubricant may temporarily help with this, but it won't fix things long-term, and will probably make things worse eventually. Your fan has open bearings, and they are going bad for some reason other than being dirty. Either they're going out of alignment (which lubricant usually won't help with), they've run dry (which lubricant may help with, but might make things worse for in the long term), or they are damaged some other way (which lubricant won't help with). In all three cases, lubrication may fix things temporarily, but it is liable for a wet non-grease lubricant like WD-40 to eventually cause the second possibility to be the case. Your fan has sealed bearings, and they are going bad in some way Most common case is going out of alignment, but other damage is possible. In this case, lubricant won't help, period, because the bearings are sealed (and therefore the lubricant can't get to the parts to be lubricated, and will in the case of a wet lubricant like WD-40 usually result in case 1 happening much more quickly. 

Here points to the first argument, and points to the all arguments. I'd always use and double quote if there's only one argument to omit spaces which are treated as special characters, namely as separators (for commands). Moreover, you can define your aliases macros in a separate file, say and then source it using 

The title is sufficient I think. How can I stop Fedora to automatically download and install system and software updates on restart? 

If we take Windows Terminal as Windows PowerShell, then it is still . You can try it yourself by pressing Win+R shortcut to pop up the Run menu and type to bring up the newer, blue screen, de facto & somewhat de jure () Windows terminal. PS: For, you can store the result in files and read its contents using built-in command. PPS: For Microsoft Visual Basic () you can store the result in an object by using the method as follows: 

will set the variable to the full name of that file inside a batch script. It loops through the command output (). 

would move all the files in the current directory with extension to the specified (relative or absolute) path, that is folder of the user here. 

if you mean installing the software instead of downloading it, the user accounts on windows who are not in the group, that is who are are required to do most part of such things with administrator's permission, that is by inputting one of the users' password who is in the group you can open (win+r, then type ) and type: 

I have a USB flash drive (FAT32 format) with the label "DT100G3" If I assign the drive to the letters "G" or "J" the label shows on Windows Explorer. However, if I assign the letter "F" to it, the label in Windows Explorer shows the default "Removable Disk" label. I've tried adding an autorun.inf file to the USB flash drive containing this text: 

Since Windows regularly creates system restore points, it overwrites old ones when the allotted space for system restore is full. What I'm trying to do is make a system restore point of my PC's current state and make sure that it won't be overwritten by Windows. I know that I could make a system image but I have ruled that option out because it will also overwrite my personal files (documents, music, etc.). If this is not possible to do, does anyone know of another way to restore my system without affecting personal files? Besides manually copying system folders, that is. 

I know you said you're on Windows 7 but since this was asked 3 years ago and it seems like Win 10 is going to replace Win 8, I thought this would help. 

However, the label still shows up as "Removable Disk" in Windows Explorer. If I open Windows's Computer Management and go to Storage > Disk Management I can see that the label is still "DT100G3" even though it doesn't show in Explorer. What I have noticed is that in Disk Management, there is no drive letter next to my flash drive's label. The other drives do have a letter next to their label (e.g. My C drive has a "(C:)" next to its label). I think the issue may be related to the fact that the letter "F" is the default letter assigned to any removable disk that I plug into my PC. Perhaps there is an entry in the Windows Registry that makes all drives that get assigned to "F" have the label "Removable Disk"? Edit: I reformatted the flash drive to NTFS, changed the drive letter to "G", then reformatted back to FAT32. Now even when using the letter "G" the label says "Removable Disk" in Explorer. 

So it is a good practice to always double quote the argument, that is the value of variable, meaning so the interpreter never expects a confusion in that context. 

I am using gVim and there's no vertical split option in it's File menu item. I want to map the default and its abbreviation to and respectively, so that it replaces the horizontal split everywhere. 

I do very adore the tab pinning feature of Vimperator in Firefox which is done by and undone by commands. I want to create a command such as and and put them into file, that is the configuration file located in users' profile, to set it every time I star up Firefox, so it's permanent. I've also read that the very feature can be implemented by Developer Toolbar in GCLI command line bar in the bottom of Firefox as done through an addon but expired later, but I don't know how, and am curious about that as well. 

you don't need to use loop for simply listing a directory tree You may use instead of for a similar function but different output displaying file and folder attributes (that's if they're hidden, system, archieve type of files etc) too Also you might consider using instead, for a better output formatting, although without showing the hidden files 

it case-insensitively searches the file, determines the line, and then gets its 5th element () delimited by whitespace by default (absent option) saving the value in the variable 

I would suggest avoiding tape drives for personal use, they're insanely expensive, not much more reliable than hard drives and with the typical max tape sizes being measured in double digit gigabytes, you'll be sitting by the system for a couple hours waiting to change out tapes in the drive when running backups. While it doesn't exactly fit the 'inexpensive' requirement, I would recommend using a service like Amazon S3. Most FOSS backup software supports S3 style storage API's for storing data, and it's generally pretty easy to set up. However, for ~8TB of data, you would be looking at roughly 200 USD a month in storage costs for Amazon S3 with the basic storage option, and about half that for the IA storage option (which is good for backups), with similar pricing from most other competitors. You could probably easily bring that down by just backing up what you actually need to (for example, you probably don't have to backup the OS itself, just the configuration and a list of software that's installed), and using compression (which may be able to cut your space requirements significantly depending on what type of data is involved). Blu-Ray disks might be an option also if you don't need to store all the data (but aren't exactly cheap, and you would need a lot of them since they hold at most 100 GB for the dual-layer ones). If using optical media like Blue-Ray disks, make sure to use the lowest writing speed possible, as data retention of writable optical media directly correlates with the write speed (slower write speeds result in the laser focusing on a given spot longer, resulting in better retention). If you have to use traditional hard drives, I have a couple of suggestions: 

here starting from the directory it will recursively () search for the string in all () files incase-sensitively () alongside displaying their line numbers () if found 

Is it possible to open a part of the file as a separate vertical split window in Vim? Say I have a file with hundred lines, and from the fortieth up until and including sixtieth lines I want to be rendered as a separate locked window within the main window as a split "tab" to focus better on that part of the file, and the changes I made there would reflect on the whole file in the main window as well. I have a very long file and I would like to implement such thing to manage its contents better. 

Apart from setting alias by which is stored only in the current session, meaning it will go out on , and creating and moving or to or to run them directly without typing their path, which are usually located at path, you can press Ctrl+L to clear the screen which is consistent (I hope) in both Linux and Windows. The default extensions (to omit when writing the full name of the file) are stored in variable (check them by issuing ). This is an environment variable meaning it is permanently defined, and always there for you to refer. You can set it permanently by (as which will keep the previous extension and add the new appending to the already existing ones). The default path for executables (runnable files) to refer to is stored at variable ( or command). 

When creating system images I can only make exclusions for folders I don't want to backup. However when doing a normal file/folder backup, I can select just a few files/folders within a folder instead of making exclusions for every single file/folder I don't want to backup. That is why I would prefer to do a regular file backup as opposed to a system image. However, is a file backup as effective as a system image at restoring a drive to a previous state from scratch? Would there be any hidden/protected system files/folders that may not be backed up in a file/folder backup? NOTE: When performing the file/folder backup I would be booting up from a recovery drive on a USB flash drive and not from my Windows OS 

I'm looking for a way to launch 64-bit programs in a Chinese, Japanese, and Russian locale without changing my current system locale (which is English). With Microsoft's AppLocale I was able to launch 32-bit programs in any locale but AppLocale doesn't launch 64-bit programs in a locale different to the system locale. I currently use Windows 8.1 x64 

I'm trying to figure out a way to boot from a USB flash drive to move files from my internal drive to a USB 3.0 external drive. In the past, I've used "Mini Windows XP" to do this with USB 2.0 external drives, but it doesn't support USB 3.0. What I want to be able to do is move/copy/paste/delete files and create folders on the internal drive and the external drive. Also, I prefer a method that is fast, simple, and that doesn't require the use of the command line, if possible. Context: Right now I'm getting the blue error screen on Windows right after boot so I can't access the log in screen. I want to backup some of my files in my internal storage to an external USB 3.0 drive. 

Compatibility There should be no issues. QEMU doesn't look any different functionally from regular hardware to the guest system, and LXC does nothing that requires special behavior from the hardware that QEMU doesn't emulate. But... You probably don't want to do this, not only because it will hurt performance, but it will also significantly complicate management. You should probably re-evaluate why you think you need VM's under the containers (or, better yet, if you are already using containers for part of your infrastructure, why you need to use VM's instead for the rest of it). Unless you really care about live migration or improved isolation of workloads beyond what containers provide, you're probably better off just adapting the rest of your infrastructure to use containers because they use fewer resources. The only exception to this is systems which provide services that are accessible to the outside world, which should never be on a shared host unless they're in a VM (because crashing a container will quite often crash the host), and even then should generally not be on a shared host with internal services. OK, but I really want to do this anyway. In that case, work on adapting your software to use VM's instead of containers. Realistically, it shouldn't be too hard to adapt. It's actually pretty easy to set QEMU up to directly boot a Linux kernel (and therefore bypass the need for a bootloader, and with it the need for a partition table), and once you can do that it's easy to extract that container base image into a filesystem image which you can then use directly as a disk (this would still be a bit lower performance than the containers, but nowhere near as bad as running the containers inside the VM's). 

The switching is mapped to Alt+Space by default but can be changed in settings, more specifically in the XML configuration file located inside its installation folder, that is in ( if you're on 64-bit edition of Windows)` inside file by setting 's value to as shown below: 

this script above would switch to high performance scheme and set the lid action () under it to be on both cases (either plugged or when on battery). it is basically three lines of code as the rest are almost just comments (remarks). 

Here it maps to the letter creating a virtual drive, always double quote because the folder may contain special characters spaces. 

If you're in the same folder try executing to explicitly denote that you're looking for the executable inside the current directory. 

I've been moving directories using and but it requires the user to go to the destination directory to "paste" them into. There's a undocumented command which I don't know how to use. And I also guess it may be done through external shell command somehow, but I want to do it natively through the command. 

I think you can assign the default user and/or password in MySQL configuration file, that's for user profile or system-wide. More. 

I have a tab open and I want to know the source of this tab as I opened this tab from another tab by clicking on a link. It's especially happening and useful when reading Wikipedia articles and opening wikiLinks in other tabs to read later but as the tabs grow in amount I usually forget the source that lead me to that tab so can't make a relation. In some cases I rely on button, when opening in the current tab, or in Wikipedia articles when the title of the article is different, to find and go back to the original source page, but it's not always happening. 

I want to merge 2 non-adjacent partitions. Since partitions need to be adjacent to be merged with disk partitioning tools, I plan to create a copy of the partition that is in between the ones I want to merge and then delete it. From left to right, the lineup is regular storage partition, System Partition (created during Windows 10 installation), and Boot Partition (contains the Windows 10 OS). If I copy the System Partition into unallocated space to the left of the regular storage partition, can I safely delete the original System Partition? Meaning that it shouldn't cause any kind of system errors? Note: To make the copy of the system partition, I will be using EaseUS Partition Master. This is what I have: 

I'm not sure of what you mean by "when I could be a text box object" but if what you're trying to do is make the text inside the box appear on Ditto, then you have to select the text itself and copy it. If you simply select the box and then copy the box, you would be copying an Adobe Acrobat object and not the text inside it. Most likely, this box object cannot be understood by Ditto so it won't display it. 

On Windows 10 this is very easy to do. Go to Settings > Devices > Pen and turn off Show Visual Effects 

I have an MP3 player that uses a micro SD card as storage. The SD card is formatted in exFAT. When I browse files in the MP3 by folder location, the order of album tracks is not in alphabetical order but instead the files are in the order in which they were added. I have added the track number in front of each song (e.g. "01 TrackA" and "02 TrackB") but it still doesn't show in order. The only workaround I've found is to transfer the files to the SD card, then after transfer is complete, I take all the tracks out of the album folder and sort them alphabetically in Windows File Explorer, then I move the tracks back to the album folder. That way, they show up in alphabetical in order when I browse them on the MP3 player. I would like to find a way to automatically sort all the files in the SD alphabetically instead of having to go through the above process for each music album. I've heard of some programs that can sort FAT32 drives but haven't seen any for exFAT.