Per connection (or per UDP stream) Yes Yes. For example, your web-browser on one internal PC can have multiple simultaneous TCP connections open concurrently to each of several different external web servers. For each connection the source-port will vary (chosen randomly) but the destination port and destination IP-address may be identical for several connections. A router designed to serve the needs of two or three computers in a home might be unable to cope with the number of simultaneous connections needed in (for example) a school with perhaps hundreds of very busy computers. Routers have to be sized for the expected load. 

Virtual memory allows you to concurrently run 10 x 1 GB applications in a 2 GB computer. Demand Paging Instead of loading the program into memory and giving it some memory for data, VM allocates space on disk (the paging file, or equivalent) for the memory needed by the program but uses "demand paging" to only load into real memory the smaller part of the program and data needed at any point. Less used parts (e.g. some rarely used subroutines) might never be loaded into real memory. When real memory is needed for another program, unused parts of real memory are used, if none, oldest clean pages may be dropped, if no clean pages remain, some "dirty pages" of memory are written out to the paging file (if the page is the same as the original loaded from the program binary file, we don't need to save an extra copy). VM keeps track of all this. Swapping In the past, a separate and more desperate method of memory management called swapping was also sometimes needed. Nowadays the terms are used almost synonymously. 

htaccess is a per-directory configuration file that Apache reads, Apache is web-server software using the HTTP protocol. HTTP usually operates on port 80. FileZilla is (primarily at least) a file-transfer client using the FTP protocol. FTP usually operates on port 21. You may be confusing things (if not please explain further). 

ought to work. There's probably a kinder method involving the package manager for your distro (I'm not familiar with Kali). You should be able to ask the package manager to list installed packages and may be able to delete packages relating to these old Kernels. Unless they are huge I'd not bother. YMMV. 

gives you elevated root (i.e. administrator) privileges for one command only. There is a config file for sudo in which you can control which users are allowed to do what. gives you elevated priviliges for multiple commands by giving you a new shell session with an effective user-id of root. The root user is a special user named root that you can see in /etc/passwd. There are a dozen or so other users you always get in an Unix or Linux system. People usually have an ordinary account and use that for all work except the actions that absolutely require root privileges (e.g. installing software for use by all users on the system). This makes it harder for malware to do bad stuff and makes it harder for you to make irrecoverable mistakes. 

Try spanner, tools, developer tools, audits Lots of suggestions for improving the efficiency of your web page reasons why other people's specific web pages use excessive resources. 

They are using different servers because they use servers from the ntp pool. I'll temporarily add otherbox to this server's config so I can directly measure the time offset 

Yes, both legal and not-legal. You could explain to them why you need their data wholesale, what you intend to do with it, and get their permission. Bypassing a ban based on IP-addresses is simply a matter of obtaining a different IP-address, this might be as simple as rebooting a router or switching ISP. By doing so you are likely in breach of the sites terms and conditions though. 

Most Linux distro's can be installed from a single CD (e.g. OpenSUSE) and additional packages then installed over the Internet using the native package manager. I have installed RHEL/Centos this way (use 1st CD of set, deselect all packages, install, boot, use package manager). There is no need to copy an image intended for a USB flash drive onto a CD. 

A LED monitor doesn't use a fluorescent backlight and so shouldn't be affected by any flicker associated with that technology but LED intensity is often adjusted using PWM (pulse width modulation). This should be at a sufficiently high frequency that it isn't noticeable to human eyesight, and should ideally be outside the range of frame-rates and exposure times of still images. However I suspect this is a potential cause for this phenomenon. Some commercial PWM chips for LEDs operate at around 100 Hz. LED output doesn't have the persistence of CRT output, so any change in the drive signal very quickly results in large changes in light output. wikipedia CRT This is a problem where 

If it occurs often enough, I would use Wireshark to examine the response that is causing the "Redirecting" message. 

There are a set of standards that define the cables, the electrical interfacing and the commands that travel over the cables. SCSI has always been more sophisticated than it's main rival and has therefore been more expensive. SCSI devices generally provide significantly higher performance, longer cables and more devices per controller. Because of the cost, use of SCSI has been mainly restricted to servers and high-performance systems. Over the years, new versions of the SCSI standards are released. Sometimes there is limited interoperability with devices conforming to a prior SCSI standard. 

The manual identified by Daniel Beck suggests four dual-width graphics cards can be mounted as shown 

There is some anecdotal evidence that a Windows client can access a "share" that is greater than 2TB. See this 2006 samba discussion or this EDIT: Storage Networking Industry Association CIFS specification and/or Microsoft's CIF Specification may be helpful in answering this. 

DNS is used whenever you refer to a computer (or service) by name rather than by it's numeric IP-address. DNS is not specifically a part of any other communications protocol but any client for almost any protocol is likely to use DNS when resolving host-names. DNS is global but there are more local naming services that do a similar job on a smaller scale. For example /etc/hosts or NetBIOS name services. Any organisation with more than about ten computers is likely to be using DNS for both internal and external servers. 

Probably not. Parts of these files were overwritten when you continued to use the computer. Especially when you downloaded, installed and ran other recovery software. Normal recovery process is to stop using the disk containing the photos. This usually means booting from a recovery CD or bootable USB (prpeared on a separate computer) - see other answers here. 

If the data has a substantial financial value to you, turn off the computer, remove the hard disk and send it to a data recovery specialist. If you want to recover the data yourself, your first priority is to make a backup of the disk before more data loss occurs, every minute that you have Windows running there is a chance that more of your old data is being overwritten by files being created or extended (e.g. event logs) in the new partition. Boot the PC using a recovery CD/DVD and make an image backup of the disk. You may need to purchase an additional disk to hold the backup. If the old data partition was not at the start of the disk, there is probably more likelihood that it has not been much overwritten by the new windows installation. You'll need to Purchase data recovery software (or locate free software) that will scan the disk for data sectors and recreate the old files. I can't recommend any particular software as this has never happened to me - I always backup my important data before installing a new operating system. 

The site wasn't broken in any obvious way at the time I looked at it with Chrome and wrote this answer. However I only looked at the entry page and "amazing sites" and picked the first "amazing site" † based on your report. ‡ based on my experience just now 

I am unfamiliar with Mac OSX but it appears that instead of the traditional /etc/rc2.d it has /Library/StartupItems - you can place a startup script there (see random Internet blog or ancient Mac blog)_ By guesswork I'd expect /Library/ShutdownItems. However some people suggest adding commands to /etc/rc.shutdown.local. But maybe you should wait for an answer from someone who actually knows about MacOSX :-) 

EDIT: I recall (but cant find the references right now) that the main factor causing this issue was the way Windows clients authenticate. They require the server to know the password. This is unlike other authentication systems where the server only needs a hash or a public key and where therefore it is not possible to retrieve a password (or equivalent login credentials) from data stored on the server. Samba can also authenticate against Kerberos or LDAP servers. So there is plenty of scope for setting up a secure system. The Register has an interesting article on NTLMV2. 

Perhaps your router told barney that the router knows about DNS names and addresses and that it was part of the cable.virginmedia.net domain. barney asked the router about "laptray", the router said no such domain so barney appended the domain and retried. 

There's almost no risk if you don't connect the computer to a network and keep it in a safe place. However older Linux distros may lack drivers for the latest hardware & peripherals Note that modern Linux distributions do exist for computers with little memory One claims 

The devices available for recording depend entirely on the soundcard and its drivers. The list of devices and their names varies enormously. On an older XP PC I could record from "wave-out mix" but on a later PC there was no device available. On one PC, I had to upgrade from Roxio EMC 10 to Roxio 2011 to gain the ability to record music playing on a media player. This added "Speaker" and "line-out" devices to the list of available inputs for recording. An easy hack is to connect your line-out to line-in and make sure to mute line-in on the speaker control to avoid a feedback loop. I have done this via an external (old-school) audio-mixer but in principle, you can just do it with a stereo cable with 3.5mm plugs. Record from line-in.