Any help in discovering what is causing this "subdivding in the wrong place" would be greatly appreciated. Edit I've checked, and checked again and am almost certain that this is not an issue to do with my Camera code. 

I really have no idea what is wrong, and why nothing is being drawn, I've checked my code against numerous examples but still can't find the issue, in the case that my world transformations may be a problem here they are: 

I would like to know how I would structure the program (an interface of the members I would need particularly in the quad-tree class, and the class which holds the quad-treesm etc) How do I make it so dynamic like that? How would I create the quad tree structure and how would it work (and interact with other objects)? Any other information/things you can provide me with :3 How to create the sphere, etc. 

Altough that is hardly sufficient as you cannot change the speed of the animation based on the speed of the player, and I don't think that is how minecraft does it... So what I am asking is if anyone has any ideas on how minecraft does/handles animations or any other advice on how I should animite primitive models (in a reusable way) please help me :) 

I have created a player model out of primitive types. To do this I have created a Model class and Component (mesh) class. Each model consists of one or more components my problems start when you have to rotate the model as a whole. When you manually create a mesh, you have to also specify it's origin, my problem is that the player is not rotating, before it worked somewhat (it turned each mesh indivialy) but then I changed the order of the Matrices and now it doesn't rotate at all, I think it is my matrix order: 

How can I fix this? Edit: The update code is (I added the "0, 0, -1" so I can actually see it) but it is rotating each component idividally rather then as a whole model: 

You are able to stand "inside" the left most one, and you collide with nothing in the right most side (where there is no block and is not visible on this image). Here is all my collision code: 

I think the problem is when the vertices are being constructed. I think those four sets of 16 quads are being drawn on top of each other. And I defiantly think it's doing the subdivision. Any help on the matter would be much appreciated. Edit: And here's the QuadRenderer Class, note that I just hacked to together to test the above, so don't expect quality code :D: 

How would I create a camera that with the mouse, it allows you to orbit around a specifc position, with the camera always facing that point? I would also like it to be able to always be at a constant distance from the point, and be able to orbit around it in every direction. Any ideas? 

My problem is that the terrain simply never shows, I don't know if I am doing anything incorrectly but here is how the vertices are generated (I commented out the actual code and create a box instead). 

I am creating a minecraft like terrain engine thing in XNA and C#, and I am trying to create a item/block selector tool. The thing is I would like to have 3D objects on the tool. So I thought for the 3D objects to not move where the camera rotates/moves I would have to use pretransformed coordinates. Is that true? Also I would like to be able to use the world matrix to transform these objects like I would normally be able to when using world coordinates? Here is what I have got sofar in the effect file: 

I would like to be able to create something like the following $URL$ how would I create something like it? I understand I will have to use quad trees and cube to sphere projection, but I don't even know how I will structure the program or even create the sphere. 

I think the problem has to do with the way I am handling my vertex format (VertexPositionNormalColor) shader or the way either of them are written: 

I also tryed the object creation code in another project with a different effect file and vertex format and it worked fine. This is defiantly a shader/vertex format error as I set each vertex with the exact same color, so maybe the color and position data in the shader is getting with each other? Any ideas? Thanks 

I found the problem, I was not taking the parent index and adding it to the child's index, I changed the following line: 

In XNA, I have created a new VertexType, called it VertexPositionTextureLight which inherts the IVertexType Interface, but apparently I need to implement the member of VertexDeclartion which I cleary have: 

to "renderGlScene(sf::Window *app)" directly after "glClear(GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT | GL_DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT)" is called. 

I have have a rotation problem in the Slick2d library, the image is just not rotating (ie I set a rotation but no result is shown). Here is the rotation code: 

Any ideas? Edit 6: Also when I draw my block selector - it is drawn right before the HUD is - this is what happens: 

Now, the thing is I tested the theroy that the Z is always "off by one" and by ceiling the value it actually works as intended. Altough it still could be greatly more accurate (when you go down holes you can see through the sides, and I doubt it will work with negitive positions). I also does not feel clean Flooring the X and Y values and just Ceiling the Z. I am surely not doing something correctly still. 

I was looking for some inspration for my Voxel based game I am writting and came across this: $URL$ I would like to know how to go about (or preferably source examples) of how I would do that, in real time, and infinitley. In addition to that I was wondering how I would do this with a voxel based terrain? A procedural planet generator in 3D which constructs voxel data, my voxels are of the same size of thoose in minecraft. Any ideas? Edit: I ported the simplex noise function i_grok suggested written in C++/Python to C#, I sure hope it works :) $URL$ Edit 2: 

I have tried to follow nehe's opengl tutorial lesson 2. I use sfml for my window creation. The problem I have is that both the triangle and the quad don't show up on the screen: 

I used to use this struct without inheriting the interface but since I need to call the device.DrawUserIndexedPrimitives that function wants the struct to inherit IVertexType. 

The chuncked LOD relies on the child/parent structure of quads, the depth is determined by a constant e.g: if the constant is 6, there are six levels of detail. The quads which should be drawn go through a distance test from the player to the centre of the quad. 

I have been working on this problem for months; I have been creating Planet Generator of sorts, after more than 6 months of work I am no closer to finishing it then I was 4 months ago. My problem; The terrain does not subdivide in the correct locations properly, it almost seems as if there is a ghost camera next to me, and the quads subdivide based on the position of this "ghost camera". Here is a video of the broken program: $URL$ The best example of the problem occurs around 0:36. For detail limiting, I am going for a chunked LOD approach, which subdivides the terrain based on how far you are away from it. I use a "depth table" to determine how many subdivisions should take place. 

The missing faces has nothing to do with culling, I do beleive ambient lighting is not a factor because all faces as a default have full light EDIT: Ok, well I fixed the problem and it had to do with me dividing the number of vertices by three... very embarasing. (So is my spelling ;) Ok, so now I still have a problem... It is explained in the following screen shot: 

I am creating a minecraft-like clone and was wondering what is the best way to go about animating a model, for example implementing the following feature: when the player presses the arrow keys, move both legs in the opposite directions but when the player stops moving retract the legs, slowley. This is what I want to be able to do dynamically, the following is just an example of what I want to acheive and is proberly not the best way of doing so. So here is an example of what I mean, some thing like: 

I highly doubt that is a great way about going about animating the legs, but I hope you get the idea. Also, I wondering how would I actually use/create my model class so I can add animations to different objects. Here is some pesduo code : 

I am creating an editor of sorts that allow you to create 3D voxel models. I just got started and have ran into a few errors. Here is what it is producing: 

Like @bobobob suggest just layer two 2 dimensional perlin noise (or similar functions) together, here is an example, (this is assumes you are using voxels, but you can easily adapt it to pretty much any thing with height data) here is the pesudo code: 

The following function creates the vertices for each quad, I feel that it may play a role in the problem - I just can't determine what is causing the problem. 

So as the top and bottom half are pretty much similar, just inverted and really huge, make the frequency really low but the amplitude really high. 

I am drawing the sphere for testing purposes, also note that I have rotated the cube in the world matrix by 65 degress on the y axis but it didn't appear to do anything. Here is what it looks like when I am looking in the air: 

Where each [] is a child. Each child has the same amount of children up until the detail limit, the quads which have are 6 iterations deep are leaf nodes, these nodes have no children. Each node has a corresponding Mesh, each Mesh structure has 16x16 Quad-shapes, each Mesh's Quad-shapes halves in size each detail level deeper - creating more detail. 

I am creating a minecraft like terrain engine in XNA and have had some collision problems for quite some time. I have checked and changed my code based on other peoples collision code and I still have the same problem. It always seems to be off by about a block. for instance, if I walk across a bridge which is one block high I fall through it. Also, if you walk towards a "row" of blocks like this: 

I started a tutorial for java's slick 2d library, called SlickBlocks which is essentally a tetris clone. The problem is I have followed and typed in the code examples to the dot, yet when I run it I get the exception: Exception in thread "main" java.lang.RuntimeException: Resource not found: testdata/alphamap.png. I just started the tutorial and am up to "Making a cool effect with Image scale". Any ideas? Edit: The error has occured at: 

Also not that I am not using "alphamap.png" anywhere in the game, I think It is just referenced by the library itself. 

That is meant to set the rotation of image to 180 degress. Then I render the image with an origin of the center of the image: 

And here is what it looks like when I am looking at the terrain, why does it change when I look at the terrain? 

I am creating a quad that starts as a single quad, then divides itself multiple times (from 1 -> 4 -> 16 -> 64 -> 256 etc) but I have encounted an issue. When I get to 64 sub divisions only 16 quads are shown. 

Then in the pixel shader (I didn't include it in this as it is abit lengthy) all it does is get the color from the texture of that pixel and lights the vertex accordingly. Any ideas? EDIT: I just realised a problem with this approch. Each object, has a slightly different rotation when it is further to the left/right of the screen any ideas? Something like this should work?