The title is sufficient I think. How can I stop Fedora to automatically download and install system and software updates on restart? 

i keep my macros in a separate file with file extension, and can load them using for the specific console session i want to use windows os feature of file type association to load them without having to type the command (the executable's name or path) every time for that reason i use two built-in commands: 

Is it possible to open a part of the file as a separate vertical split window in Vim? Say I have a file with hundred lines, and from the fortieth up until and including sixtieth lines I want to be rendered as a separate locked window within the main window as a split "tab" to focus better on that part of the file, and the changes I made there would reflect on the whole file in the main window as well. I have a very long file and I would like to implement such thing to manage its contents better. 

you don't need to use loop for simply listing a directory tree You may use instead of for a similar function but different output displaying file and folder attributes (that's if they're hidden, system, archieve type of files etc) too Also you might consider using instead, for a better output formatting, although without showing the hidden files 

I have an Asus N55SF, and i have a problem with the intel graphic, the screen always gets black (with some liltle white dots on the left side of the screen), and when i gently hit the pc sometimes the screen gets back to normal. Now when i open a game or anything that uses the nVidia graphic cards, this problem never happens, or when i plug the laptop to an external monitor, so how can i turn off or disable this intel graphic. I tried to disable it from the "Device Manager", i get a warning, and when i press ok the screen goes black and i cant do anything, also tried to go to BIOS, but i couldnt find any option related to the graphic card, here s what i have in BIOS: Under advanced: 

Does this means the my drive is broken forever? and there can't be a way to fix it? USBDeview properties: 

I have a 16Gb flash drive, was working fine till it just someday stopped working, when i plug it the drivers are loaded, but i can't see it the "explorer" i went to "Disk managment" but this is what i get: 

as u see the flash drive name is (Disque 1) (sorry it in French) and under F: when i go to cmd and type: 

I've been moving directories using and but it requires the user to go to the destination directory to "paste" them into. There's a undocumented command which I don't know how to use. And I also guess it may be done through external shell command somehow, but I want to do it natively through the command. 

I'm playing from that's not from playlist but from the media in In Windows it goes on playing the second item in the directory tree after the first is done, but in Fedora VLC stops the music when the current song reaches the end. I tried to search in Preferences in All Settings, but couldn't find anything related, or I might miss the correct option. I want it to continue playing the folder, that is the music library, without me having to click for next song shortcut. 

if you mean installing the software instead of downloading it, the user accounts on windows who are not in the group, that is who are are required to do most part of such things with administrator's permission, that is by inputting one of the users' password who is in the group you can open (win+r, then type ) and type: 

there's no error, but when i execute the file pop-up message appears, and basically it doesn't work previously i tried to associate files with and it worked, the problem here seems to be the equals sign in 's switch, i think the system can't handle it i think, despite switches () and subcommands after the executable name can work with parameters, but somehow fails to do so so i'm asking for solutions :) 

For quite long reading see: $URL$ Epoch is used very rarely. When not defined it is set to 0 and not printed. Epoch is used to bridge gaps in naming. E.g upstream has project and have version 2009 and suddenly they decide to change the version and next version will be 10. And now your upgrade path should be from foo-2009 to foo-10, but rpm treats foo-2009 > foo-10 and will not upgrade it. So maintainer has to bump epoch and rpm will compare foo-2009 == 0:foo-2009 < 1:foo-10. Release should start with 1 and every time you release new package - but with the same tar.gz of the same version - you should increase release. This can be change in post install scriptlet. Change of run-time requirement. Rebuild because of change in ABI of required library. Or because maintaner add patch. Usually fixing some security reason. The format of release field is not standardizes so you can only guess why maintainer used this format. And in fact you do not need to guess as you can read the changelog of rpm, where the change should be described. 

You are trying to install Fedora 23 package on Centos 7. While it occasionally works, generally speaking it is very bad idea and rpm stopped you right before you done something wrong. Either get EL7 version of that package. E.g from here: $URL$ Or install Fedora 23 - e.g. in VM and install it there. 

it seems the run box is just a gui version of command with the default switch value which sets the path for starting directory as every other command it reacts to , etc special environment variables moreover it understands the pattern to directly open web pages, eg ctrl+r (or ) opens the website with the default web browser application, as it knows that the argument is url this time the interesting part on these environment variables is the order of items in the list they contain, as it matters for setting search priority, and is important when looking for homonymous files or directories 

I think you can assign the default user and/or password in MySQL configuration file, that's for user profile or system-wide. More. 

If you are trying to do the analogous thing as JavaScript function use command to display text on the console screen. 

Apart from setting alias by which is stored only in the current session, meaning it will go out on , and creating and moving or to or to run them directly without typing their path, which are usually located at path, you can press Ctrl+L to clear the screen which is consistent (I hope) in both Linux and Windows. The default extensions (to omit when writing the full name of the file) are stored in variable (check them by issuing ). This is an environment variable meaning it is permanently defined, and always there for you to refer. You can set it permanently by (as which will keep the previous extension and add the new appending to the already existing ones). The default path for executables (runnable files) to refer to is stored at variable ( or command). 

googling that error told me that a code should appear to indicate a status flag or something, but nothing other than the name of the exception appeared. This problem also happens when i move the laptop (sometimes), and when the fan works at a high speed, so i knew it's not a software problem, i also tried to refresh windows, but this problem still occurs. So how do i know which piece of hardware caused this KMODE_EXCEPTION. UPDATE: Dmp Files: $URL$ UPDATE 2: so i did a memtest, i didnt know if it will really end, or go on on testing forever, so i stoped after like an hour, and here is the result 

I have windows 7, and my PC cannot use any port, i tried apache2, and it says it cannot bind to port 80, i changed to many different port, 8080, 81, 82 .... i tried mysql, same thing happened, it cannot listen to any port even tomcat didnt work. i lunched cport (which was shipped with easyphp) and it gave me blank list, usually it gives me list or the process and the ports they are using, i even tried "netstat -nao" it didnt show to me any process. all these programmes are lunched in regular and administrators modes. What's wrong here? is it a service down or something? EDIT: I cannot even ping to 127.0.0.1 i get "ping general failure"