By using the request system zeroize media operation mode command via the CLI, you can reset the device to factory defaults. It will erase all the logs, data, and the load factory-default configuration on the device. It is the same as using the Reset Config button on the front panel on the SRX100, SRX210, SRX240, and SRX650 devices. When the device is rebooted, it will not ask for the password and have any logs or the factory-default configuration. The load factory-default command in the config mode will only erase the configuration and load the factory default configuration. However, you have to set the root-authentication password prior to committing the configuration. For more info you can see: [ $URL$ 1 

This type of NAT with outside at the end of nat command called outside NAT. For outside NAT (from low security level to higher security level), you need to use the outside keyword in the nat command. Because if NAT control enabled you can't pass traffic from lower to higher security level without nat configured. For example for DMZ hosts to communicate with insude hosts ,nat outside should be configured 

You could track that by going to Destinations in Fortiview, or if it is blocked by Fortigate you can find more info from FortiView-Web sites 

You need to change the WiFi router configuration to run in bridge mode, then the WiFi client will get IP's from the Mikrotick router and be on the same broadcast domain like the printer 

I have active/passive servers cluster talking with another cluster located behind a Router, for some bug in the operating system in the first cluster it did not send GARP message after switch-over and the communication with the second cluster will be broken till either the ARP cache timed out on the router or someone clear the ARP cache table on the router manually. to resolve this I have two options, Either reduce the cache timeout on the router or implement script and add it to the switch-over procedure to be called automatically during switch-over, but the first option look easier to implement and more safe. I have concern that reducing the cache timeout on the router would cause high broadcast on the network,is it safe to reduce the Cache time out? 

In the Junos running in flow mode which is the default case, you need to assign the interface to security zone to be functional that inlclude the lo0 interface And for protocols you need to enable the protocols : 

Static arp entries is entries added to the arp table manualy using arp -s command, but the dynanmic arp entries are entries discovered dynamicly using arp protocol . When the host need to cmmunicate with some new IP and did not has its physical addres flood arp request which is broadcast message asking who own the IP (which physical address) and then the destination replay with unicast message with his MAC address 

Using SNMP you can get the counters for broadcast per switch interface using the broadcast OID , but to get the anomaly behavior detection you will need something more advanced like anomaly detection system 

For question 1, I think it is normal behavior that you will type the command on interface level and it will be global config mode command for your second question there is no option for disabling STP on the port level you can disable the STP on VLAN level only BPDU filter and portfast will provide the expected behavior for disabling the STP on port level 

You should recognize between Data plane and control plane , control plane have many functions one of them is exchange the routing information with the other routers using routing protocols like RIP , but data plane is used for transmitting the transit traffic using what was learned or configured on control plane . The router control plane work on all layers but transmitting the traffic are based on up to network layer only on the standard L3 router 

collect the MAC addresses of devices Creating a device group as mentioned by the link: Go to User & Device > Device > Device Groups and create a new group. Add the new device to the Members list with their MAC addresses 3.Create security policy and configure its action as deny Go to Policy & Objects > Policy > IPv4 and create a new policy. Set Incoming Interface to your LAN interface, Source Device Type to the device group, and Outgoing Interface to the Internet-facing interface and set the destination to any and the action to drop confirm that the created policy position is on the top of the policies 

VLAN and acl are totally diffrent things The VLAN in simple words is logical partation of the switch which seperate the hosts connected to the same switch in the network on the layer 2 level,so hosts in diffrent VLANs and connected to the same switch (or connected switches) can't communicate together without layer 3 device like a router. Access list as its name describe is mechanism to control the traffic on the network device exist of entries with match criteria and action like permit and deny 

We have Cisco AS5350 attached to E1 and configured for remote access on the async lines so any incoming call will be assigned IP from IP pool configured on the async group interface, now we have new requirements to direct new number to the same AS and assign different IP pool based on the called number(DNIS). Is such speration based on the called ID possible ? I searcherd over cisco document but did not find any clear setup for that except for LNS/LAC setup 

You should configure the global IP as destenation in the ACL not the private IP and you can check the below link for more information: Configure ASA Port Forwarding with NAT 

I have two sites connected using ipsec, The ipsec is connected using two netscreen boxes and I want to extend VLAN from one site to other Is it possible to achieve that without adding any new component 

The connectivity between DSLAM and BRAS could be either by ATM or Ethernet and in case the user should be forwarded to another ISP for the authentication and the connectivity L2TP tunnel will be established between the BRAS and ISP router called LNS and the user PPP session will be forwarded over the tunnel for AAA and internet service after the session get established the below link has good information regarding this : Real Life DSL 

You can configure VSS on Cisco 4500E, The Cisco Virtual Switching System is a clustering technology that pools two Cisco Catalyst 4500-E Series Switches with Cisco Catalyst Supervisor Engine 7-E or 7-LE or two Catalyst 4500-X Series Switches into a single virtual switch. In a VSS, the data plane of both clustered switches is active at the same time in both chassis. VSS members are connected by virtual switch links (VSLs) using standard Gigabit or 10 Gigabit Ethernet connections between the VSS members. VSLs can carry regular user traffic in addition to the control plane communication between the VSS members. you could find more info on the below link: Virtual switching system (VSS) Configuration For Cisco 4500 series switches