You want to look for or build yourself a comparator with the appropriate characteristics. In your case, you want to check a voltage is over say 3V3 and output 3V3. Make sure your comparator is tolerant of 5V. 

I've added , which seems to output the same logs as before, but allows customisation. I had problems with setting 24-bit depth though. 

ARM vs x86 Intel processors used by desktops are 32/64-bit architectures, generally known as x86 and x86_64. ARM processors, which is used by the Raspberry Pi, also use a 32-bit architecture, but it is incompatible with x86. Therefore, x86 libraries will not run on the Raspberry Pi. How do I know you have an x86 library? I asked you to run 

I'm trying to setup , which isn't easy. I'm having issues with and differing colour depths, which can be rectified by change on each of the machines. Of course, these days doesn't exist because the drivers do all the hard work for us. So, what should a default look like? 

Occidentalis, Raspbian and Debian divide the MySQL functionality into 2 packages: and . They can be installed using , which should be run as . 

It seems silly to use our limited SD write cycles to upgrade the software shipped on the images. Can we upgrade the software and install new software before flashing an image to the SD card? 

netcfg Try . Without further details about which distribution you are using, I can't provide many more details, but it should do what you want. 

Have fun! Once you have installed the OS eject the SD card properly and insert it into the Raspberry Pi. Attach power and enjoy. References 

This seems to be a known problem; the USB firmware on the Raspberry Pi can't deal with low-speed and high-speed devices at the same time. The wireless adaptor is a high-speed device and the mouse is a low-speed device, hence you have problems. Solution I'm not sure there is one yet - others may post one of course. The firmware is actively being worked on I believe, so hopefully it will be fixed over time. 

Run . The generated hash should match the one given on the website; at the time of writing, it was 1852df83a11ee7083ca0e5f3fb41f93ecc59b1c8. 

Extract the img file Extract the file and remember where you put it. I will assume your file is called , and in the case of a Linux host, your PWD is the directory in which it is stored. Linux You can use from the command line. Installation The installation differs depending on whether you are using a Linux or a Windows host to flash the image onto the card. Windows 

The à la mode Billed as The proper way to put an Arduino in a Raspberry Pi by Hack A Day, the à la mode is a stackable Arduino clone designed by Anool Mahidharia, Justin Shaw and Kevin Osborn from the Wyolum.com OSHW collaborative. Hack A Day described it as follows 

Insert your SD card into your computer and note down the drive letter it is assigned. Download and install the Win32DiskImager. Select the image file you extracted earlier and the drive letter of the SD card. 

Insert your SD card into your computer. Locate the device, by running . It will probably be the only disk about the right size. Note down the device name; let us suppose it is . If you are in any doubt, remove the card, run again and note down what disks are there. Insert the SD card again, run and it is the new disk. Unmount the partitions by running . It may give an error saying the disk isn't mounted - that's fine. Copy the contents of the image file onto the SD card by running 

To answer your question in the most literal sense, the partition could be FAT32, instead of FAT16. The Debian image uses FAT32. 

Occidentalis Use Occidentalis. It has built-in 1-wire support in kernel space. You can't do this in user-space, as your software can be interrupted at anytime by the kernel. 

On your camera Most cameras have a built in Format function, which will use a single FAT partition. My camera even puts it on an erase block boundary. For example, on my Pansonic Lumix, having inserted the card and from any mode, the menu as a Format entry. Selecting it brings up a menu asking me to confirm I wish to delete all the data on the card. Selecting Yes formats the card. 

I reckon the best case is The Punnet; it is a case made from card. You can print it yourself, fold and glue, and you will have a case in minutes. It protects the RPi from dust, which is the main threat. Other cases may protect the RPi from light spills or unwanted electrical interference, but I don't think it is worth it given the cost of the RPi! 

Try it Quickly is based on Python, which is an interpreted language. The interpreter works on the Raspberry Pi, and therefore, it's worth a try! 

According to the Wiki, the Arch image doesn't use Hard Float support and I'm pretty sure it uses the ARMv5 instruction set. Would it be possible to build a distribution that used Hard Float and ARMv6? 

Some guys at Southampton Uni have put together a cluster and written a detailed overview of their work at $URL$ 

Just wondering whether anyone has got a Text to Speech engine installed on the Pi?It would make a great addition to almost any programming project to make it talk to the user! 

If you look at the schematic, you can see that the 5V pin is connected directly to the 5V rail. :) Connecting a barrel connector to the 5V and GND pins will be fine, but be wary you won't have the protection of the input fuse - such is life. Ensure you use a properly regulated 1A@5V PSU ideally with overcurrent protection; unregulated PSUs are useless! 

I have a little bit of experience with servers. The most popular are Debian and Red Hat IMHO, certainly not Ubuntu. Most of what you do involves general Linux commands, rather than anything server specific. As for practice, whip up a cloud server on Amazon, Rackspace, or Brightbox and setup a webserver from start to finish. You learn a lot and it's pretty cheap. It's also nice to run on such fast CPUs and with a stupidly fast internet connection, for downloading source code etc.