It is unclear from your post whether 720x576 is the default, or whether you have manually set it. AFAIK there is no 800*480 CEA or DVT mode (incidentally this is 5:3 NOT 16:9). You could try setting the display as described in $URL$ The normal settings can be found on $URL$ 

I cannot give a definitive answer for the 1st, as I don't do this, but you normally would add an entry to . If you run after you have manually mounted a drive this will give an idea of the settings. Post a new question about this if you need further help. 

Most of the current Pi models (B+ and later), but not Zero, have a well engineered power circuit which prevents the Pi from being backpowered by the USB ports (which was a problem with earlier models). However if power is removed and voltage is supplied by USB devices (which should NOT happen) the Pi may continue to run. Unfortunately the USB portion of the circuitry is not published. On the original Pi I used a custom cable with a Schottky diode in series with the 5V line on the USB to allow normal devices to be powered by the Pi, but prevent backpowering. 

This is one of the reasons for NOT setting static IP addesses. You have not told us which version of Raspbian, but it is probably Jessie. There are 2 common methods of setting static IP addess, they are described in How do I set up networking/WiFi/Static IP If you reverse the process you should be able to restore normal operation. It is likely you modified , and the default contents for Jessie and Stretch are listed in the link. 

You don't say if the card is NOOBS. This has a "Recovery" partition, which OS X won't mount (as it conflicts with the OS X Recovery partition. (I wish NOOBS has chosen a different name.) There are a few other problems with your backup. You need to make sure the card is unmounted, also unless you use rdisk it will be glacially slow, and you should specify a block size. My OS X script, below, finds the correct and includes the above. PS I suggest you DON'T use for the extension. EDIT 2017-02-10 Updated to latest script 

This is an inductor, which is part of the voltage regulator circuitry. The picture shows evidence of overheating, as does the adjacent chip (which is the regulator). Anything you are going to do (glue or whatever) is only going to make any issue WORSE. The inductor would have been made with insulated wire; it it were overheated to such an extent that the insulation is damaged, it will be internal. Glue will only make it worse. I would be more concerned at WHY it was overloaded (my guess would be excessive current from 3.3V). 

There is ABSOLUTELY no point in a 2.5A supply as the Pi2 has a 2A polyfuse. You existing PSU is inadequate (as are the vast bulk of supplies). You need to measure what voltage it ACTUALLY delivers. A good quality supply MAY help. As advised you should use a powered hub. 

This can be done with another Arduino; See $URL$ This uses the interface, and you should be able to write a program to do similar on the Pi. The includes a ATmega328, which can be programmed from the Pi (using ) The following is an extract from the Gertboard manual 

As @joan states has a library which includes a number of functions (which are easier than using fcntl). E.g. it provides etc. Unfortunately no although I have written my own. 

I am not totally familiar with the , but use a . Both are programmed using the interface. is a script used to upload to this, for uploads using with appropriate configuration files provided by Gordon Henderson, as described on his site. You should be able to use either or to upload HEX files. If your question is how to compile code to then you would use the avr compiler (located in /usr/bin). 

It is impossible to know from the detail you supplied, but rather then being an OS problem it is more likely to be a power supply issue. WiFi adaptors, in particular, draw quite a lot of current. Unfortunately (due IMHO to a design flaw in the Pi) the Pi is not capable of meeting the current requirements of the USB specification. This often exhibits as intermittent failures (as searching this site will demonstrate). The solution is often to use a powered USB Hub for power hungry peripherals. Measuring the voltage at the TP is not a conclusive test. Certainly if you measure less than 4.75V you can expect problems, but even if above this when measured it can drop when the current peaks. 

You have NOT told us what YOU ACTUALLY DID. Post the actual commands you used. NOTE the tutorial is rather vague and talks about which won't apply to the SD slot in a Mac, and would be glacially slow if you don't use raw disk mode. PS The linked guide is for Linux NOT OS X. There are lots of tutorials showing how to do this on a Mac. I use the following script (which includes a few checks to minimise the possibility of overwriting something on the Mac). 

It basically depends on what aspect you are looking at. The pins of all with 40pin headers (B+, Pi2, Pi3) are identical. The functions which are allocated to the pins differ slightly. The Pi3 has a different UART assigned to the serial pins, and there is some difference in the 2nd I²C (which are normally reserved). If you run this will show current state. SHOULD be installed, but was missing from some releases. It can be installed as part of if missing. 

The directory does not need to be owned by user . Indeed the filesystem has no inherent knowledge of users. is user , and your system probably has a user . You should be able to use numeric users with . 

I think I had overcomplicated the problem. In the end I just used the output of the Card Reader as a keyboard. The card numbers appear (without the garbage) on input. I obviously need to learn more about character mode devices and how to select only the one I want - not the actual keyboard. 

How do I set up networking/WiFi/Static IP documents the possible methods of setting up WiFi (and networking in general) on the Pi. The simplest (and recommended method for new users) if you are using the GUI is to set up by following the Foundation Guidelines It appears from your question that you already have an Ethernet connection to your network, which should work. It is possible to have both an Ethernet and WiFi connection, although this creates conflicts, and is not recommended; use one or the other until you become familiar with networking. If your question is what IP is the Pi using; on the Pi will show this, and it is also listed in . 

I assume you are using a MOSFET Level Converter. You won't damage the Pi as the reference draws little current, but it won't work properly as the high level will be <3.3V. Why not use the 3.3V? 

All pins are configured as input, with various "pulls" as described in $URL$ This may be modified by settings in config.txt which are implemented by . Typically pins for and are initialised.