4. Customize the Ribbon As you use the ribbon, you will find that there are commands you tend to use more often than others. In Office 2010 and 2013 (not 2007), you can add and remove commands from the ribbon in the Options window. You can also export your customizations from there so you can import them into Word on another computer. That said, I don't recommend customizing the ribbon. The ribbon is so complex that you can easily get lost in customizing it or mess it up completely. Instead, you can customize the "Quick Access Bar". This bar can be set to be above or below the main ribbon and you can add any commands you need to it. 

is not a solution I'd be happy with. But I haven't found another. Of course using was the lazy way out, should kill instead but how to obtain the pid in a oneliner? just gives any pids. Querying their respective parent pids seemed a bit odd for a oneliner. Looking forward to a real solution... ;) 

So it reads until , since each line has 8 bytes that totals at 1024000 bytes which is our 2000 sectors of 512 bytes. Everything seems to be in order... Will it blend? 

As @PeterT noted in the comments, the correct way to do this in chrome is using (and to force GPU rendering if it doesn't happen automatically). I just had a similar experience with a relative's HiDPI Sony VAIO. It isn't that these are "experiments" in Chrome, as much as just the fact that it is easier to enable them only on machines that require/support them. It would be nice to have the support for these features autodetected, but that isn't always so easy given the wide variety of hardware (and, more importantly, the wide variety of drivers) that are currently in use on different platforms. I doubt that the Microsoft applications has it enabled by default either - I would guess that it was enabled by Lenovo when they installed Windows on the machine. As far as Spotify goes, you are out of luck. Spotify does not have HiDPI support and does not seem to have any plans to release it any time soon. See these threads on the Spotify forum for more details. 

agrees with only for block sizes that happen to be aligned to our error zone (, ). Let's check raw data. 

It seems that is waiting for data from , and is waiting for data too (stuck in ) and not closing the input to . So it's a deadlock. Same happens when you substitute with something else (like ). It seems that those commands just don't behave like expects them to. Haven't found a workaround short of killing everything: 

music player demon $URL$ is like a headless winamp with command line, web and other frontends available for it. 

I did some work on a computer recently that had problems keeping an internet connection. Here's what happened. I turned on the computer and there was no wireless connection. After resetting the USB cable that connected the Wireless G USB Adapter (old linksys that still had the light blue on the box) to the computer the connection came back but only for a moment. I ran the windows connection diagnostics wizard from IE and it was able to find the connection. The connection held for about an hour and during that hour I updated Malwarebytes and ran a scan, it was clean. The virus scanner also turned up clean. After this was done Windows lost the connection. After a Windows reboot the connection was found immediately and it held the remainder of the time I was there. Given that this has been an issue for the client for some time I suggested purchasing a PCI wireless adapter. I'm under the assumption that there is a problem with the (old) wireless USB adapter or possibly even the cable it is attached to. Possibly not enough power? In the end what I want to know is what else could be the problem? Edit: I should note that this is related to a desktop not a laptop. If that matters at all. 

While the data itself seems to be present, it is obviously not in sync; the offsets are completely out of whack for bs=16K,1M,42,64K... only those with offset are correct, as can be verified against the original device. 

Is this expected behaviour of ? I do not know and the two implementations of I had available don't even agree with each other. The result is very much useless if you used with a performant blocksize choice. The above was produced using , , . 

So it's A, B with incrementing numbers which will help us to verify offsets later. Now to put a read error in between the two, courtesy of Linux device mapper: 

You should switch the Hyper-V VM to use a "legacy" network card, because there are often problems with the Kernel Modules (i.e. Device Drivers) to use Hyper-V's default network card. Here's how to do it: 

Is there some way I can get this document out without having to go back to Office 2013 on another computer and moving it? 

I have been using VirtualBox on a Ubuntu machine for a long time to host guest machines that run in "headless" mode. It used to be that when I would open the console of one of these machines, the "Close" dialog box would offer the option to just close the window but leave the machine running. I just upgraded to the newest (5.1.28) and that option is no longer available. I can start a VM in headless or detachable mode, but then I can't exit the GUI and still leave the machine running? Where did this option go? 

(or ) corrupts your data. Depending on the I/O error encountered, and blocksize used (larger than physical sector size?), the input and output addresses do not actually stay in sync but end up at the wrong offsets, which makes the copy useless for filesystem images and other things where offsets matter. A lot of places recommend using when dealing with bad disks. I used to make the same recommendation, myself. It did work for me, when I had to recover a bad disk some time ago. However, testing suggests that this is not actually reliable in any way at all. Use and to create an device: 

So there's a computer on my network at work that has a local account on it. This computer is on the network but not on the domain. The account is used to create gift cards. At least once a week this local account gets locked out. I find this odd because the password is so simple (it might as well be password). It gets locked up at night, so no one is tampering with it. Nothing logs into it remotely. (e.g. scanner for network drives) The local account is used for nothing else, just Windows XP. Recently the last time this computer was used was on Friday afternoon then put away for a few days. It was then used this morning, or attempted to. But the account was locked. No one was messing with it in the interim. Any thoughts? 

could do it, if it's available on the Mac. You'd mount all your disks and let fdupes run over all the directories. It would be most efficient about it too (only comparing same sized files, as files with a unique filesize can not possibly be duplicates, etc.). Be careful as fdupes is often used to delete unwanted duplicates so a lot of examples may have delete options in them. 

This example creates as in sectors of , followed by sectors of error, followed by sectors of . Just to verify: