Depending on your environment, there are different tools. Most "ftp" applications today can do "sftp" which is a close-cousin to scp... and most servers that support scp will also support sftp with no configuration changes. If you're only able to use native scp... your options are less, but at the very least in Windows, you can use winscp. 

Try putting "sudo" in your script... and allow dhclient from sudoers without a password for the user openvpn is running as. Also, did you specify 'script-security 2' in your conf? 

Correct. When you copy/cut content from one document into another document... the 2nd document only sees the "paste"... as a change. It will not see any changes made to the 1st document. 

There's only one option. Do not setup a dial-on-demand connection. There is no "don't prompt me for 15-minutes" option... and no way to implement that with the default windows dialer. 

Honestly, yes. You can permanently damage your laptop by turning off the fan long-term. Yes, the CPU will protect itself by throttling, and even turning off if temperature thresholds are met... but there is much more in your computer than the CPU. Excessive heat in systems reduces the life of nearly all components in your system. Passive components actually are rated for a specific life-span at a specific temperature. Going above that specific temperature reduces the life logarithmically, not linearly. (capacitor rated for 100C for 10 years may last only 1 year at 110C.) Your laptop may idle at 70C which is not uncommon, but the moment you open a web-browser, more load is placed on the CPU/GPU and other components. In short bursts, your system will be fine... but continued loads (streaming-video/gaming/medium-high CPU applications) you will put quite a lot of thermal stress on your machine... causing a lot of premature failure of components. If you're looking for a completely-silent system of some sort, perhaps you should consider ARM-based systems that run at much lower temperatures, and are frequently fanless. 

Hard links are an entry in the file allocation table that points to the same platter, sector and block as the original file. After creating a hard link... you can remove the original filename, and the file is not deleted. Because this is an actual entry in the file-allocation-table to the physical location of the file, it is not possible to have it point to another disk. Symbolic links are a special kind of file, which is understood as a pointer to another filename. If the target file is deleted... the symbolic link still exists, but no longer has a target at the other end. With that in mind, because it only references a filename... you can point to anything. Even other filesystems. 

Initial tests shows everything is valid, up until the web-server itself. (DNS resolves, server responds to HTTP requests, etc...) the web-server probably doesn't have the proper virtualhost configuration, or has some error running some scripts of some sort. Check the config and logs. 

First... Don't do stuff that's illegal. It makes the rest of us legal people have to pay for your stupidity. Second, assuming your workstations are all in the same local network, you shouldn't have to make any changes to any settings. Local routes take precedence over default routes every day of the week. Which VPN client/technology you use doesn't change this. If they're in separate networks, you might want to simply add a static on your local machine to the network of the other workstations. 

) You can use your user account if you're a local administrator just to trigger UAC. or start the cmd prompt as administrator (right-click run as administrator) I'm not 100% sure... but seems about right. Basically even when you're an administrative user... you're still not considered an administrator until you get UAC to do it's thing. 

That is not technically an "error"... but it is a warning. Previous init.d scripts would simply put that warning into the logs, and report nothing when restarting. The message is accurate in that Apache has no way to identify the server's fqdn based on the information available. You could simply add to the loopback interface entry in the hosts file like this: 

skip the & in this case... simply start the vncviewer without forking... then after typing in password, hit control-z to background the task (it will suspend it)... and type "bg" to let it continue to run in the background. 

This is actually a much more difficult question than you can immagine. Google earth would only give you a very rough-approximation at best. Without knowing more details about the type of signal, the type of antennas, EIRP, ... the list goes on. There is much better tool that actually does some science to help calculate some more realistic estimations. Try looking at Radio Mobile. It has been around for a very long time, and continues to get better. I honestly do not know of a better program for doing this sort of thing. 

You need to install both the root and the intermediary certificates. If you control the root certificate, why not skip the intermediary? 

OEM disks cannot be used to "upgrade" any OS to any other OS. (this includes win7 home -> win7 ultimate) OEM by definition is only distributed by "Original Equipment Manufacturers" on "NEW" hardware... and as such, Microsoft went through a lot of trouble to prevent users from buying an OEM license & upgrading their current OS. This is both "illegal" and deliberately prevented by Microsoft. The only legal option and recommended method by Microsoft, is to buy either a "retail" license or an "upgrade" license... and install using the disk that comes from it. 

Right click the column headers and click on "More" ... add a check next to "Date Accessed" column... hit ok... then click the column to sort it. 

I word. . You can use similar command line arguments as the good ole , but this will invoke the copy process over ssh using either the native scp client on the remote end or sftp. It simly uses the syntax like this: 

absolutely. In most cases (depending on your linux of choice) you can simply boot off of a live CD and do a full install directly to your thumb-drive. You will probably be required to format your pen-drive in ext2/3/4 prior to installing, but still should be doable. The trick will be finding out if your bios will support booting from the thumb-drive. 

the "s" is the process ID for whatever process you're talking about. You can snag that from doing a simple 

Create a scheduled task using the tool. You can specify the start time (every 5 minutes) and set the "Stop task if it runs longer than" box at 5 minutes! Create a trigger like this: on the scheduled task to start and stop the task. 

and voila. All files in-use by a process. and no, it only includes the files that are currently open. strace might be a better option... but much more complex. 

Have you looked at other tools that let you "mount" the remote server as a local drive-letter? Something like expandrive. or perhaps you could use rsync or unison to make a mirror of the remote repository through ssh & update the remote after you've made changes... or you can try & hack something together like tunneling a samba session through ssh . 

In short... 99% of this depends on your anti-virus application, and how it performs it's scanning. For the majority of anti-virus applications out there... I would suggest leaving the "Protected View" switched on, unless there is a specific reason to disable it. 

if you see an error message like: Packet needs to be fragmented but DF set. You know you need to go smaller. So, subtract 8 & try again... until you find a valid MTU. Once you find the one that gives you a reply without complaining about needing to be fragmented... it's time to change your MTU. Back to the admin command prompt... and we do this: (replace 1464 with whatever you came up with) 

You're probably going to have to use the manufacturer's recovery CD to recover your OS... or slipstream the drivers for your disk controller directly into your windows 7 install disk. You might be able to get lucky and go into the bios and change your disk controller "mode" to emulate a different mode which will let you install 7... and then after getting the proper drivers installed... switch it back. 

A Virtual Machine behaves 95% identically to a physical server. How you would "sync" it with another server is identical to how you would do it with two physical servers. If you're talking about wanting to have both a virtual and physical server kept exactly the same... you're probably going to be working 10x harder than you need to. It's typically easier/cheaper to setup a cluster for the important services you have...