Just consider how much time, comfort and money you loose if you have to take the battery out each time, especially if you happen to accidentally unplug that MagSafe connector. No Safe Sleep then! And if you ever plan to get a new MacBook you won't even be able to take out the battery without using a screwdriver. Enjoy your MacBook, don't worry about the machine. (Some performance benchmarks with and without the battery installed at Tom's Hardware. And there's a good reason to completely charge and discharge your battery every now and then for calibration, as that tells the chip on the battery how good your battery is, allowing for better estimates and maybe even for better charging programs.) 

If you want to close the window manually, and if you use a browser that allows popups from JavaScript, then you could use a JavaScript solution. Limited by same-domain security policies, this needs an ugly timer to see if the child window is meanwhile closed. Also note that opening the first window will be fine, as that is (eventually) triggered by you clicking the "Start" button. However, subsequent windows opened by JavaScript should be blocked by sane browsers, so look for that "popup blocked" warning. Both Chrome and Firefox will do fine; they will first block the second URL which also makes the script fail. Simply accept the popups and then refresh the JavaScript page: 

Internet Explorer uses your Windows proxy settings when connecting to the internet. I'm not sure about Chrome, but Firefox can use its own settings. So maybe some of the malware changed your proxy settings to redirect you to some specific website. If the browsers have different settings, then that might explain why one browser can connect but another cannot. 

People may say that a virus needs to spread itself. That may be true, but when using the term "virus" for threats that get downloaded/installed without the user knowing it, then for example vulnerabilities in PDF readers or Flash players may be a threat as well, even when one needs to go to some website to be exposed to it. Such threats may already be blocked by a modern browser, which compares the website against a list of known bad sites. A scanner could block this when coming in through email as well. And even on a Mac and other Unix-like systems, where security requires an administrative account to do a serious lot of damage: "only" deleting the user data, or making such data public, would still be a huge problem for many. I am not using any scanner on my Macs. But actually I wish that others would: if some day some zero day vulnerability is discovered, then a scanner that updates itself like every hour might be able to stop it from spreading until the vulnerability is actually fixed. I don't feel responsible for scanning Windows files that my Macs may distribute for viruses. 

The DVD for OS X 10.4.6 Tiger, as shipped with the first generation May 2006 Intel MacBook, is apparently build number , and that's the only "hardware bundle" disc that can be used on those models, apart from retail upgrades. See also Apple's What's a "computer-specific Mac OS X release"?, and a list of build numbers on The Apple Museum. (I cannot find that build number on the disc itself. A label like on the above-mentioned May 2006 MacBook 10.4.6 disc seems to be some part number instead. Likewise, a 10.5 disc that came with a February 2008 Mac mini is labelled . On the same discs, and labels refer to the version of the Apple Hardware Test software.) 

Whether or not you can use both ethernet and USB simultaneously totally depends on the exact type of modem you have. Like for an old SpeedTouch 530 I once used: 

From the "Main functionality of the program" section at the support pages: The pop-up translation function works in Microsoft Office applications and in Internet Explorer. 

Screenshots are Office 365, but same applies to previous versions. But: the accepted answer is much easier! 

Do you want to learn more about all popular operating systems, or only Unix in particular? If you actually also want to learn OS X then you could of course run Linux on a Mac as well (dual boot). However, I feel you should only do that if you expect to use OS X as your main OS. OS X integrates very well with for example the Safe Sleep. After sleep, my MacBook is awake instantly and connects to my WiFi network before I am even ready to use it. The multitouch trackpad also integrates perfectly with OS X. But I would not buy the expensive hardware if all I'd do is boot into Linux. As a side note: do you actually need a notebook? If you're eager to learn Unix then you may end up setting up some server running 24/7. A notebook is not an ideal server, and actually too expensive as well. 

To see if a session cookie is the culprit: restart Chrome and try again. To see if a regular cookie is causing this without wiping it yet: try an incognito session, which does not send existing cookies to the server. If that works: clear the localhost cookies. 

Actually, sometimes text from draggable content, such as in a URL in a browser, is suddenly draggable all the way to the other computer. But Apple has limited the clipboard usage a lot, in favour of their paid version of ARD (and old tricks to show hidden ARD things no longer seem to work). For a poor man's copy & paste of just text, you could consider synchronising a document using something like Dropbox. But, as on Windows VNC only uses a password without a username, and as your Mac allows endless attempts to connect, you actually might want to set up VNC to connect through a secure SSH connection. (That is: if your Mac's SSH blocks an account for some time upon subsequent login failures; something to validate.) Once the secure SSH connecting is established, the VNC client would then connect to "localhost", and hence "tunnel" the screen sharing through that secure connection. Once you have that SSH in place, then you can also share that copy & paste document through SSH, without the need for third-parties like Dropbox. And maybe (but I doubt it) that would solve the timeout issues as well. A few hints to help you search if you want to set up VNC over SSH: