To answer your first question, I would say ICMP run up on the third layer TCP/IP but don't use the fourth (TCP/UDP not involved) so I think it's correct to describe it as running on 3.5 Layer. You can analyze yourself the data inside ICMP using a packet analyser (Wireshark recommended). Here a picture to get a better idea. 

I can't provide the level 15 to customer so I want to know how can I configure the view access and restrict to certain command. I tried but without sucess 

So I think this is related with Fiber Optic link but the packets counters are incrementing. ADD info : Patched cable of 3M cable due to specification. Problem not solved. Output of 

How can I get in a straight-forward way the bandwidth policed on a certain interface on IOS-XR. In IOS, I execute 

Meraki devices should be configured and managed remotely by a controller located in the cloud Meraki Dashboard Login. Locally you have access to limited information like the connectivity info. If your modem provide Internet access on LAN and gives private address through DHCP, you should not configure a public IP. If you don't own a meraki dashboard account and the device is not attached to your account, you will not be able to manage the device. 

After a search on configuration guide and documentation, I didn't any evidence of a limitation on configuration on a certain VLAN on 450x SUP6E. Anyone know where I can found such information or confirm if is there any ? By my perception, there is no limitation on secondary IP possible to configure on a SVI or interface. Thanks. 

I'm going to assume that the various servers in question are all in the same subnet (i.e. L2 domain). If this isn't the case then you'll need a different approach. If so, however, you'll want to logically bundle together a number of links between the switches using link aggregation. Based on a quick Google the switch does apparently support 802.3ad link aggregation (see here on page 111). This will allow the traffic moving between the two switches to be generally balanced across the various links available. I don't know the upper limit of your particular switch but it's safe to say that the lower limit is 2 and that it can likely support as many as 8 links. The links should be the same speed, obviously. Given the hashing algorithms at work the best balance tends to happen at powers of 2 - so 2, 4 or 8 links will work more efficiently than, say, 3 or 5. Please also keep in mind that the speed of a single flow between two servers can't be any faster than the speed of one of the links in the bundle. Also keep in mind that traffic isn't going to be perfectly spread amongst the links. It gets more efficient with a larger number but will always be somewhat unbalanced. There may be tweaks to the hashing algorithm in use, but I don't know the IBM platform well enough to comment on particulars. 

I have to disagree with much of the above. I've dealt with literally hundreds of flaky line cards and bad power supplies at a time whose basic issue came back to incorrect installation where it was (incorrectly) assumed that a correctly grounded power cable was all that was required. The lug on the chassis exists for a reason and its non-use can- and sometimes will- result in problems with Smartnet entitlement. Do folks get away without it? Sure. If there's a problem it's likely to manifest as a flaky stability issue at an indeterminate point in the future. The lugs are cheap. There's no reason to skip this. If you're in a colo/DC environment then the equipment cabinets/racks should have been tied together already to provide shared grounding (..in addition to being bolted together metal-to-metal). Consider why this would be if basically all modern equipment has three- or four- wire power? 

How can I get similar information on IOS-XR. By similar command, I get counters but no info about configured policed BW. 

SFP is 1000Base-2BX10-D and I check the specifications. I saw the operation range for the SFP is RX: -3 to -19.5 and TX: -3 to -9. When I type the command, 

There is a lot to say on this field. I would like to add at Andy answer the following guidelines provided by Cisco. About the configuration itself, well you can improve ACL on line, service password-encryption, disable not used service like http and so on. 

I've an issue leading with Private Vlans. I've fiber modem and they can't reach the DHCP/TFTP to be provision. I suspect from the configuration of Private VLANs. Can you review them ? My doubts are mainly on access switch and trunk configuration on gigabit port. In brief, the modem when they power up they tried to get an IP through DHCP, send an untagged frame arrive at Access switch 4506 and should be handle on vlan 11 due they are the untagged private-vlan. After broadcast discovery DHCP should go to aggregator switch through vlan 10. On aggregator switch 4500x, there is an SVI vlan 10 with ip helper-address of provisioning server who send in unicast the packet to him. 

We are an ISP and I would like to implement ACL to protect our core network (Infrastructure) and implement some filtering on public subnet inside. As border device we have a cisco WS-C4500X-32 4500x in VSS Cluster. The peak traffic on downstream is 3Gbps. I follow the guidelines and I've already define the ACL, just left implement them. My doubt now is how will be the throughput performance, if it's expected some degradation or the cpu will rise. Will the device can handle such traffic amount with filtering ? I don't have the experience to implement ACL on so high throughput device. [edit.1] Sample of ACL : 

So the trick here is tying user ID's to source IP's within your network. If you assume that a given user's traffic all comes from their PC and, in turn, that their PC's traffic is only attributable to them then it's fairly straightforward to come up with long-term DHCP assignments and simple substitute IP's for user-id's. Heck, at the most trivial level you could give the user PC's machine names that correspond to users and just run DNS resolution for the source IP's in your report. Beyond the trivial case, though, it becomes a lot harder. Dynamic IP's? Multiple concurrent devices? Multiple users coming from a single IP? Application proxies on-site? This is where it starts to get ugly and is why there isn't really a truly generalized case. If you had some kind of ironclad way to associate user devices with login/logout - say 802.1X on both wired and wireless connections - you'd likely end up with RADIUS accounting logs that could include IP's in use, connection times, etc. This could be correlated (via a script) with the firewall traffic logs to associate Internet bandwidth use. It's basically something close to an ISP billing problem. Another option might be to require users to register with the firewall before using the Internet. This might provide a shortcut that's easier than the above - check this article on AD and ASA single-sign on integration for some ideas that might fit and be a lot cleaner than the general approaches listed above. 

So - in practice with the information provided in the question it's hard to offer much more than the general observations above. I don't know how much space you'd potentially reclaim but would point out the additional (also hopefully obvious) point that the amount of work and potential disruption that migration will require is non-trivial: interruptions of service/change windows, changes to routing schemas and policies, monitoring tool adjustments, operational/troubleshooting protocols, etc. Is the amount of time spent (or risk engendered) of greater or lesser value than the few thousand dollars the equivalent amount of public address space might be worth? 

For the outside point of view, your 60 host will fit on the public subnet. Suggestion : since public IPv4 are a limited resource, the best would be to NAT/PAT the 60 Host on only one IP and leave some free Public IPs, in case of need. Well this suggestion don't take in account the limitations of NAT/PAT, like how much host can be translate over one 1 Public IP. 

Edit1: Solution : - Removing the command solve the issue and I get access to router through SNMP. What is the purpose of such command ? Why on this router isn't working and on the others it is. 

I've a CPE connected to a 4506 switch. The interface is Up but I don't see traffic CPE MAC address on MAC sddes-table I've already replaced the cable, SFP and port. Now I've the minimal config (nothing i.e. switchport access) and no MAC yet. 

What I'm looking is a solution for the describe problem - How to define certain port as blocked ? What is the best practice on REP implementation. I read the official documentation and I'm still confuse on. If someone can share with me some document (other than the official) to better understanding, I will be grateful. 

I'm trying to provide to a customer the HTTP access on Cisco CMTS (NPE-G2) IOS: 12.2(33)SCG5 to check minor information like "show cable modem", "show cable flap-list" and maybe other show commands through HTTP page. So far, I'm able to configure the HTTP access but can't restrict the acces to only certain command. I tried to configure a user with privilege level 3 but I only can access to HTTP page with 'level 15 or view access' as show below. 

Traceroutes will work but since reverse resolution of the transit IP's won't it will provide no insight to others as to what path a given packet takes (i.e. is 10.x.x.x a router in Ashburn, VA or Hong Kong? Who knows?). Worse yet it may show up as an internal resolution for some, which isn't a huge deal but may be confusing. Depending on your design, your network management systems ability to reach individual interfaces may suffer. You can potentially offset this by carrying those routes in your own tables with the (hopefully obvious) caveat that these prefixes need to be carefully managed and filtered to avoid exposing them to any third parties. Again, we don't know much about your network topology but if you're peering with others the extent to which you expose any of these transit routes (or need to) has to be analyzed. As an example, preserving your internal next-hop in a peering environment ceases to be a useful option. You may run into administrative issues with some providers - or other third parties - as "exposing" 1918 addresses to the broader Internet is considered bad form. 

Yes - it is possible and from a limited perspective it's not even uncommon in certain circumstances. A good example is the use-case with Ethernet taps where transmitted frames are passively copied to an analysis box. The breakout is certainly transmit only. I recall seeing something similar to what you're describing in an ultra high volume Netflow collection situation where routers with optical interfaces would split a transmit from a common dummy source and drop it into the receive ports of multiple routers. It was enough to keep the link up while the corresponding transmit links (..carrying solely Netflow UDP packets) sent their payloads off into the ether. There also used to be an accommodation in IOS for simplex Ethernet drops (usually from microwave) via the command "transmit-interface," which took an additional interface as a corresponding receive only. I think the point there was to have the transmit-only throttle based on flow control (..or collisions) on the corresponding receive port, but it's beyond obscure at this point. There are a bunch of caveats - most fairly obvious. Any kind of link negotiation, flow control or QoS is completely out of the question. Speed and duplex need to be locked and only connectionless protocols (UDP, ICMP, etc) make any sense. Multicast and broadcast would be fine but unicast would likely require hard-coded MAC addresses (...this is how the Netflow situation mentioned above was managed) and if it's being dropped on a switch there very well could be some strange behaviors at both L2 and L3 as far as timers are concerned as the target address likely isn't sending any responses to build CAM and ARP tables. This, again, could be mitigated through hard-coding if the platform supports it. 

I've the challenge to configure REP on a ring with 2 4500-X and 2 4506 as you can see on topologie picture. I was able to configure a basic REP ring but don't know how to define the block port as on picture. With my configuration the blocked port it's the 4500x-1 - Te1/16. Here the configuration applied. 

Don't understand why I'm getting from the Vyatta_VPN_2 the routes 10.25.250.0/29 and 10.11.249.0/24 on CE_1 and CE_2 which are redistributed on MPLS VPN. 

We have a connection between our Vyatta Router to our MPLS VPN Service Provider which is a Cisco device. We would like to know how to filter the OSPF advertisement routes on Brocade Vrouter 5400 (Vyatta). We are open to any other free or lowcost option. In order to find a solution, we tried to simulate it with GNS3. We are trying to filter from the vyatta to Cisco. The big picture : 

Your scenario is somewhat confuse. If I uderstand well you want to filtered DHCP request on L2. You can achieve it by using the function DHCP Snooping features available on your platform. You could set all ports in untrusted mode so only DHCP reply from the switch will be accepted. DHCP Snooping - configuration guide 

After reading the specification of SFP, I change the fiber cable and the issue persist. I check the two sides (SFP and CPE), both are sending packet and the counters are incrementing. So a colleague suggest this probably it's the negotiation (speed/duplex). I configure the on no-negotiate, strangely I can set a numerical speed (100/1000/...) as other switchs, only or . I set too the on full, the problem persist. I contact our supplier of CPE Packetfront. We tried to tshoot the link. After a while and reading the Release Note of CPE we found there is improvements on firmware on negotiation with Cisco equipment, so he strongly recommend to upgrade version to the last version (1.10). Update done the CPE works fine. Thanks all for the support. 

Use an FHRP for hosts so that they (usually) don't need anything more than a default gateway. Only allow routing protocols to run on segments specifically interconnecting routers. The Cisco command accomplishes this for most IGP's (i.e. by default disallow routing adjacencies on any interfaces where not explicitly enabled). Ideally use an IGP capable of authentication, and then actually use that authentication (this last part is still really uncommon). 

Almost certainly 1 out of x packets. This is a common technique to reduce overhead for flow processing. A value of 1 means no sampling. If you use a higher value you need to make sure your collection / analysis tools are similarly configured to allow for proper interpolation. 

You need to look at your existing configuration ( from an enabled prompt) and find the existing NAT configuration ( or with the dots being the remainder of the command). Enter configuration mode ("conf t") Type "no" before the line to be removed. So - for example - if it presently has something like "ip nat inside source ..." you would type "no ip nat inside source..." At this point you should be able to enter the new translation command. 

Bear in mind that the idea with iBGP and route reflection has been to distribute path information with the idea that specific routing/forwarding decisions would be accommodated by the underlying IGP (particularly including multipathing, internal failover, etc). As such, a pointer to what ought to be fairly static next-hops can be kept in table while avoiding the churn associated with localized network information. Scalability and stability were (and arguably should be) the primary objectives of BGP - even at the price of suboptimal path choice and fast convergence. The traditional implementation of the RR epitomizes this. Ideally the information on RR's should be as static as possible and timers should be kept on the long side. BTW - There are circumstances in which an RR might send multiple paths to the same v4/v6 destination - both the AddPath feature mentioned above as well as in the MPLS VPN case where a given prefix is associated with the RD's of multiple PE's.