Maybe the HTML mails you get (erroneously) rely on that? We would have to see some e-mail headers and a bit of the content to ensure that's the reason though. Maybe you can write some script to fix it, just like an issue with ActiveSync, for which you can Use AppleScript to read ActiveSync Sent Items in Entourage. But then we'd still need to see some detailed information. (Shameless Mail.app plug, incase you're on 10.5 or later: Mail works great with Time Machine. You can even restore single messages from accounts that you have already deleted altogether. Just first activate Mail and then enter Time Machine. Bye bye Entourage...) 

(Tested from a Mac running 10.6 with Java 6, towards a Mac running Screen Sharing on 10.5.x, and from WinXP to 10.6.x.) 

I'd temporarily connect the AirPort Express to your computer using an UTP (ethernet) cable. Then the AirPort Utility does not need to get a wireless connection to start the troubleshooting. 

Recent versions indeed support it, but early versions might not. For the March 2008 802.11n version Macworld writes (emphasis mine): 

On my Mac, hitting Command-S (or using menu File, Save Page As...) works just fine. Likewise printing works fine using Command-P (or menu File, Print). On Windows that would be Ctrl-S and Ctrl-P then. However, your screenshot is using a HTML : one fixed upper frame with some Wiley information, and a lower frame with the PDF. Clicking "Open Frame in New Window" in the lower frame gets you a window with just the PDF, in which Ctrl-S will work. But hoping for an easier way, I created an example of such frameset that does not require one to log in. But in that example, in Chrome on a Mac, I have no clue how to avoid having to use "Open Frame in New Window" first. Like: clicking in the frame before hitting Ctrl-S or Ctrl-P does not tell my Chrome which part I want to save or print. 

The second line can also be done through a GUI, using Macfusion, but then be sure to read the SSHFS notes about that. 

The June 2013 802.11ac model of the Extreme now officially support this. From "Choosing a backup drive" in Apple's Mac Basics: Time Machine backs up your Mac: 

My guess is that you've set up Eclipse to use the OS-defined editor to open it, and then told Windows to use Eclipse? To be sure: right-click the file in Windows and see what "Open with" gives you. To fix it: change the file association in Preferences » General » Editors » File Associations, to make Eclipse use some built-in editor. (Or, if that doesn't work: right-click the file in the Eclipse Navigator, and ensure that Open With does not have System Editor selected.) 

I guess context-aware tools such as MarcoPolo can do the trick, surely if you use some shell script to set up the tunnels: 

And using you can monitor keyboard events. That probably won't help much by itself, but might help you Googling more helpful articles as that command is sometimes mentioned in such articles. 

I surely hope there's an easier way. Still, if all else fails: I've never used it, but the Python script (for use with faulty Time Machine backups) might help. It's a long script but it seems it's not only that long just because of Time Machine. And especially its support for faulty disks can be useful for your corrupted file system too. From its website: 

Time Machine uses FSEvents to tell in which directories files were added, changed or deleted after a certain time. (There's a good explanation at Ars Technica.) Even when somehow forcing OS X to rebuild the FSEvents database, I think Time Machine will still only consider changes that happened after the date of the last backup. I think it simply assumes all older backups are valid, and discards older files as it assumes it already copied them. Even if FSEvents tells Time Machine that something in a folder has changed, a nice in-depth article at Quarter Life Crisis claims: 

If your Mac originally came with Tiger, then I think a clean install might break the iLife things that came with your Mac. (You cannot easily install those on a clean installation of a newer OS X, I think, but I might be wrong. Installing iLife that came with 10.5 seems fine though, but your mileage may vary.) Apart from that it's totally fine (and legal, if you own both Leopard and Snow Leopard for that Mac). However, the "Erase and Install" option is no longer part of the normal installation, so you'll need to use Disk Utility (and backup your personal files). See as many as 44 steps at Apple's Mac OS X v10.6 Snow Leopard: How to Erase and Install. As a side note: "Archive and Install" is no longer available at all. But apparently: if you need to reinstall 10.6, it automatically archives and installs for you (or, one can do it manually). 

You won't need 301 redirects for your main page: once you have replaced the old files with the new ones, the server will show the new index.html or index.php unless a specific other page is requested. For other pages it can probably be set up using Apache URL Rewriting, but this really depends on what has changed. So: what has changed for the URLs (not the content)? 

This is an IP address for a private network, not for the internet. So I assume that the VPN service you use also uses its own DNS server, to relay all your requests through their own web servers. That DNS server then does not give your browser or Messenger the true IP address, but a private address. This way they can add advertisements, but that also breaks the secure connection that Messenger tries to use (man-in-the-middle attack), and hence Messenger will refuse to operate. If I am right, then some possible workarounds to make Messenger bypass this service: 

Often things remembered in autofill dropdowns can be removed by double-clicking the input field or typing a letter to make the browser show the list, and then use the cursor keys to go down in the list and highlight it. Next, depending on the browser and operating system, hit something like Delete, or Shift-Delete, or Command-Delete, or Shift-Backspace to remove it from the list. I also assume IE6 has some settings in Tools, Internet Options that is related to remembering user names and passwords. Next to that option you'll find a button to show you what has been remembered. But IE6 being so old, I doubt anyone can give you the exact location to that option. 

I don't know how it got mapped like that in my network; maybe as the domain is in a proposal state and someone already partially added it? As an aside: all domains map to that IP address for me. Still then, does not map to my local web server. So, I assume that maps to in your network, and to make your computer lookup the name, it needs a network connection. As using might clash if the proposed top level domain is ever assigned, and as you want things to work without a network connection, you could add other aliases to your host file. Like on the line for : 

If this is not some corporate environment bus some simple setup (like a shared internet connection in an apartment building) then Universal Plug and Play might open up the ports you need. (But to answer that, we need many more details. And if you want to use common ports like 22, 80 and 443 then someone else might already be using those.) 

Not an answer to the question that you already answered yourself, but just for the archives: After one has saved a file from a website or an email message, one can use Get Info in Finder to find where a file came from. For an email attachment this shows the message Sender, Subject and the URL referring to that message. Instead of Get Info, one can also use the command line to get the information: 

You can see where that is going if you need many (sub)domains... To use wildcards without a network connection, you'd probably need to set up some DNS server on your local machine. To quickly see if all this is indeed the issue, just add : 

All these dummy domains will have their own cookie, and thus their own session. And the tabs or windows will be easily distinguished from one another, based on the URL you see. (Of course, this assumes the session is based on a cookie, but your testing using multiple browsers shows that is true.) (You may also need to tell your web server to map requests for those dummy domains to the same "virtual host".) When this would not have been your own server, or one that was not easily changed to handle requests for additional domains, then using multiple web-based proxies like listed on Privax might do the trick as well. Though I guess I'd prefer with Firefox then. 

After saving this as an array formula somewhere in row 1, one can drag it down to add it to row 2, 3, and so on. Alternatively, instead of extending the result, you can copy/paste the array formula to have column and row references adjusted on the fly. In the screenshot below, I copied the following from B7, B12 and B17 into the other cells: 

A browser does not need to save a password in order for a website to keep one logged in: after logging in to a website (Facebook), it sets a cookie with some id that tells the site that the browser is logged in. Whenever a page is requested from the website, the browser sends that cookie along, so no password is needed. Some websites use cookies that are automatically removed when you close the browser, but a website could also make the cookie live for as long as it wants, even forever. If you would clear the cookies (don't do that!), the "session" would end, making the website prompt one for the credentials again. So: it seems no password was saved in the browser at all; it's just that the browser still has the cookie that keeps your friend logged in. (Luckily, even if you don't have a proper email address configured, Facebook offers a way to reset it: "If you're logged into Facebook on another device, we'll send you a notification to reset your password.") 

Windows by default sends all traffic over VPN, but a Mac does not. (On a Mac, the Advanced button shows an option "Send all traffic over VPN connection". Windows has a simular option, but I can't tell you where to find that exactly.) EDIT: changed the recommendation. 

By flushing your own DNS cache you might get an IP address that operates better than the one you were trying to use. The above output is fresh, and tells your computer that this answer is only valid for another 900 seconds. (Subsequent executions of the same command will show lower values until they expire. You'll also see the list of IP addresses change.) Meanwhile, on your computer things will already be expiring right now, so maybe when the DNS is refreshed after (at most) 15 minutes, Microsoft will already have taken out the faulty server from its DNS records. (You'll see similar output when using ) 

Both approaches need a very long time to complete, and will give you a very long list. But I think it's the only reliable way on non-Windows machines, and when you've been using odd file name extensions. On Linux, something similar will work. On Windows, this would require using something like Cygwin or GnuWin, or booting into Linux using a Live CD. Beware that you might also be interested in and similar MIME types, or even for unknown file types. 

Note that screen sharing has only been built-in since Tiger. Old tutorials may tell you to install a server like Vine (though some actually still prefer that). I guess good search terms would include . (Let us know what you found!) 

I guess a self-extractor is indeed the easiest solution for you and your users, but would imply that all users have the same password. Many ZIP utilities support it, including 7-Zip (with AES-256). Paquet Builder shows a nice GUI, but is not free. 

You're assuming allows an asterisk as some wildcard, but that is not how things are documented. Instead, use a partial address: 

If you fancy setting up your own hotspot, then see coova.org (based on the no longer active ChilliSpot). ChilliSpot is also used in FON's Fonera. 

It's bad because those who use it, apparently think it makes things more secure. And it's that wrong feeling of security that's the problem. (Don't bother to filter on MAC-address, nor to hide the SSID. Use WPA or WPA2 with a good passphrase instead.) 

However, the above first needs you to tell Firefox to load the original URL (so: you'll have to press Return in the location bar) to get the location object populated. Instead, to be prompted for a URL rather than first having your browser (try to) load it: