This will be a bit of a layman's answer, rather than quoting spec, but it should be accurate. The collision domain is the sum total of the network segment (hosts, hubs) affected by the collision, and forced to deal with it by a random backoff delay. Anytime a collision is detected on an Ethernet line, any and all interfaces on that line are required to stop transmitting. They each then come up with a random amount of time to wait before transmitting again, in an attempt to avoid another collision. In a crowded network, this delay will start to add up very quickly, and the collision domain is essentially the sum total of equipment that delay affects. As in your quote, it comes up a lot less these days. The original Ethernet gear that filled the role of the switch was a hub, which simply repeated any frame sent to it out all of the other ports. Once a network got even lightly congested, this made collisions a common symptom. Modern switch technology virtually eliminates that problem, since any frame received by the switch is only sent to the host it's intended for. The only possible collision is between a host and the switch, making it a very small collision domain, affecting only that host. 

The two kinds of NAT your question is referring to can be categorized as destination NAT, and source NAT. Destination NAT will typically change a connection to your router from the ISP direction to a destination target that's inside your network. It's also commonly referred to as port forwarding. This lets you expose a service that would normally be inaccessible inside your private network. Source NAT will change a connection through your router from your local network to a source target that is the router itself, allowing multiple hosts to use a single public address. NAT can perform other translations, but few others are useful except in niche cases. Despite the phrasing in your question, a source NAT that you describe is not helpful. Using a global address that is not functional on the router will have no good effect. No other device or protocol would keep track of that, so all replies will be forwarded to the device that should have that IP, which would know nothing about your setup and promptly drop them. If you want to use a different IP, get it set up and functional on the router first. 

If you have no need to divide the traffic on all (and it does have to be all) the old hardware, then just make sure the switch connection from the old Cisco equipment connects to a VLAN 10 only port on your Brocade. Don't configure for trunking, tagging, or any management protocol on either side of that one link - Cisco will only tag if the port is configured for trunk. The Brocade will consider all the traffic that comes in from the old hardware to be VLAN 10 traffic, and your Ciscos will keep doing what they're doing thinking they are VLAN1 without any config changes. This is not terribly good practice, so as soon anything changes this is a rather bad idea. If the replacement simply forges ahead as you describe however, it may be a way to tide you over. 

Questions: 1. Is this optimum with respect to security (VLAN segregation for each departments), manageability, bandwidth (broadcast domains and compromised endpoint quarantine)? 2. Will a machine on different VLAN and IP subnet (10.1.2.5) communicate with machine at HQ (10.1.1.5) and with 10.2.2.5 (at branch)? I reckon that within the same office (HQ/Branch) machines won't communicate. However, they will between branches of same department (10.1.1.5 with 10.2.1.5). Thank you very very much to everyone who has reviewed and assisted me with this. Second diagram 

Branches will start with 10.2.0.0 series. There will be further subdivision of IP ranges using VLANs per department. This will be consistent throughout the organization A. Sales will be allocated 10.1.1.0 in HQ. B. 10.2.1.0 in branch 1 and 10.3.1.0 in branch 3 – so on and so forth. Network device topology will remain consistency throughout branches: ISP CPE - Firewall - L3 Core swtich - L3 (working in L2 mode) switches - Endpoints. Physical topology between branches will be - Endpoints - L2 Switches - L3 Core switch - firewall - ISP CPE - L3VPN - ISP CPE - Firewall - L3 Core swtich - L3 (working in L2 mode) switches - Endpoints. Topology with IP addresses for illustration will be: Endpoints (10.1.1.5) - L2 Switches (10.1.5.2) - L3 Core switch (10.1.1.1) - firewall (10.1.1.250 - question - should this be on same subnet or is it better to have firewall IP as 10.1.0.250) - ISP CPE - L3VPN - ISP CPE - Firewall (10.2.1.250) - L3 Core swtich (10.2.1.1)- L3 (working in L2 mode) switches (10.1.5.2) - Endpoints (10.2.1.5) 

Thanking you all in anticipation! Edit: My requirements are for L3VPN as per one of the answers. Thank you again. Just to confirm and reiterate since this is critical and my job hangs on getting it right - As someone suggested - I am planning to shift to 10/8 subnet for better expendability. Hence: 1. HQ will have 10.1.0.0 subnet 

Greeting's, this is my first attempt at network connectivity and hence would truly appreciate if community at large can review and guide me through it. We have one main office with 7 branch offices. We don't plan to expand over 12-15 branch offices (even if we do, I feel my following assumptions and design should stand). We plan to have P2P VPN lines between offices. I have proposed that we use 172.16/12 subnet. With 172.16.x.x for HQ and 172.17.x.x and so on for each branch. We will never have over 500 PC's per branch. There are as of now 6 departments and I have proposed 172.16.1.x and so on for each department which will stay consistent over the branches. We have (for whatever) reason L3 switches all around and each switch may hold computers of 2 or more departments. Hence to segregate I've proposed VLANs which will be (VLAN IDs) consistent between switches (I am unsure of this part). Hence, if sales computers are in VLAN2 on switch 2. Other switches (switch 3 for example) will have VLAN2 holding subnet and PC dedicated to sales. I've attached a diagram for better explanation. I want to know if it's possible for inter VLAN communication based on the diagram I've attached and of course the changes recommend based on our needs. I am certain of having made mistakes with trunking. Please do guide me through it. Will the firewall be able to see IP's of endpoint with trunking on uplinks and L3 switch. Also all the switches in the diagram are L3 

To everyone who takes the time to read below, thank you very much. I want to start this off with the very general question and then give my exact situation. I really don't understand the terminology 'tag egress packets' vs 'untag egress packets' when it comes to setting up VLANs. As far as I was always concerned, tag meant that the switch was manually enforcing a VLAN tag on every packet that came into that port (placing the tag on itself) and untag meant that it wasn't. This goes back to one of my first bosses, who told me you could only have one tagged VLAN per port. I'm pretty sure this is wrong now, but I wouldn't mind figuring out exactly what that refers to. I'm currently operating under the assumption that tag means it accepts tagged packets for that VLAN and untagged means that it accepts untagged packets and places it into that VLAN (Probably the Primary VLAN ID). Of course, that could be complete bunk. My Situation/Problem The network infrastructure is currently running all NetGear Prosafe switches (not my choice, but until we do the upgrade later this month, I get to work with them) as well as one NetGear router. We are using Aerohive Access points to create a Campus wireless network. I'm basically going through, ripping out the existing SSIDs on the Aerohives and looking to replace them with a better option. The aerohives aren't the problem, I can configure them with my eyes closed. What I do have is three VLANs I want to create, to separate three different classes of users onto three different subnets. The Aerohives will assign 2220, 1135, and 2135 based on the user and SSID used. For right now, I'm focusing on 2220 as a test case. I have configured a new DHCP scope on the DHCP server (192.168.5.0/24) and have configured every port along the path with the tag egress packets option for the new VLAN. I have also added in a special routing port (even though I have high doubts it's needed at all). The Problem I don't receive DHCP on the network and when I do a VLAN probe for 2220 it shows up as not having a subnet. I really just don't know enough about VLAN routing and especially these NetGears to get why the DHCP requests do not get to the DHCP server. Clarification For right now there are only two switches between the DHCP server and the access point. The DHCP server, being on a different subnet, likely isn't contacted directly, but I'd likely expect the following to happen. AP > Switch 1 > Router > Switch 2 > DHCP server Yes, the router port I setup for the new VLAN is connected to the same switch as the AP is. Ideally, for this test case, I think I would only need to configure about 3-5 ports. Edit After reading the below answers I tried the following and wanted to add a bit more clarification. Switch 1 - Port 03 VLAN 3030 untagged, VLAN 2220 tagged, Primary VLAN 3030 3030 is the management interface VLAN and is needed for the AP to communicate so I can't really change the primary. Switch 1 - Port 09 VLAN 2220 untagged, Primary VLAN 2220 This heads off to the router. I get the feeling I should be able to just tag all three VLANs on this one port eventually and have the router deal with them in trunk mode. Router - Port 05 VLAN 2220 untagged, Primary VLAN 2220. VLAN routing interface 192.168.5.1, 255.255.255.0. DHCP helper relay is setup for the DHCP server. For reference, the DHCP server is on the 192.168.1.0/24 subnet. Note: This model of netgear does not let me configure an IP for the physical port, just for routing ports you create. Switch 2 - Port 05 This is the Hyper V host port and where I start getting confused. We have another subnet setup exactly the same way (not created by me). The port itself has only VLAN 1 untagged and primary. So, I don't think I need anything configured on the port. I just don't know if I'm missing something or not. DHCP still does not seem to work.