Have you been taking hardware in and out. If so, make sure to check that your SATA cables are in their connectors straight and fully connected. Also make sure there are no kinks in the cables and they are not pushing against a access panel. Even if all is well, you might try swapping cables from another SATA drive, or trying new ones if you have them lying around. It sounds crazy, but things could "look" 100% and still not be. HDD errors that are not explicitly called out can be very difficult to diagnose. I personally know sometimes our computer won't start after working on it and just pushing SATA cables and making sure they are resting against the side of the case we put on sometimes fixes it. Also, our motherboard doesn't like recieving 5V from a powered USB and will not start correctly or recognize drives correctly ONLY SOMETIMES. Point is, things like what you are mentioning can sometimes be something very elusive. If it isn't something more obvious like MrSeeds link would find, then you have to start thinking "outside of the box". 

Yes you can do this if your configuration allows the following. Create a degraded RAID array with a the new drive and a drive missing, the unclean drive. Boot and mount that degraded RAID array. Copy over the files to the degraded RAID array from the unclean drive. Then wipe it and add it to the array. Viola, fresh new RAID array with old data intact! 

will not be available to the user for anything else, though, with or without password, unless there are other entries in sudoers list that permit it. 

Let me add one more possibility here for future reference. If you are using the microSD card with full-size SD adapter, the adapter may be bad. This is especially common with cheaper cards, and these adapters may go bad pretty quickly too. (In my experience as little as 10 uses in the worst case.) The most reliable way to tell if the card is still good is to use a dedicated microSD reader, possibly a higher-quality one. A mobile phone that takes microSD card can also be used. I generally recommend using microSD readers for microSD cards. 

I finally got around to solving this. I used a configuration called Masquerading in OpenWRT wiki. The two routers are put on different subnets. Router with Internet is on 192.168.1.1/24. The second router is on 192.168.10.1/24. The router without Internet is configured using OpenWRT. The 'lan' entry in looks like this: 

Apart from dig, no other tool (ping, curl, etc) will actually use the address, but instead they all complain that the hostname could not be resolved. What am I doing wrong and is this approach good? 

...with the computer on, for voltage at fan; should read well above 0 volts but voltage could be low if the fan is suppose to be running at a low speed. ...That fan works; find 5 volts on your motherboard, then wire in 5 volts to the fan from anywhere you can find the voltage 

There really is no way to keep the performance of the SSDs if you create an array with the SSDs and the HDD. I would recommend you create a RAID 1 on the SSDs for the operating system; say 60-80 GB min or so for windows, less for Linux. Then create a RAID 0 of the remaining space on the SSDs for storage. Then schedule a program like Free File Sync to backup the files from the RAID 0 to the HDD on an interval of your liking. Or you can use Real Time Sync or equivalent to keep the RAID 0 and the HDD synced in realtime. This effective means you would be RAID'ing the RAID 0 and HDD on a file level, not the block level. This assumes you would store all of your user files and such on the RAID 0; not the default location on the RAID 1 with the OS. 

If your drive is failing as per Omar's suggestion, you should get another drive that is larger than the failing one (larger than 320GB + the size of the data you currently have on it) and burn a copy of SystemRescueCD or similar rescue system, and use a tool like ddrescue to copy the failing drive to the other one. It will generate an image file that you can later mount and copy files to the remaining space on the new larger drive. 

I'm not sure if I phrased the question correctly, so sorry for any confusion there. I have two routers. Routers are too far apart to connect them to each other using a cable. First is connected to Interent and has a single wlan interface. All devices on the LAN connect to it via WiFi. Second one has two wlan interfaces and no Internet connection. Here is a diagram made by Cont7e that describes what I want to achieve (thanks!): 

I have a local network consisting of two virtual machines (for testing purposes). Both run Debians. I'll refer to them as A and B. My goal is to have A act as 'whole of Internet' for B (for HTTP requests on ports 80 and 443), such that using any domain name (even those that don't exist on the Itneretnet) return the response from the web server on A. I've installed a DHCP server on A, and made it use its own IP address as the DNS server address, and started a tool. On B, I can successfully connect to the first one and obtain the IP address as well as the nameserver address using DHCP. The is started with: 

Note your external IP address. Update your DNS records as needed to point your domain to your IP address. Port Forward port 80 and 443 to the webserver. Make sure nothing else such as a firewall is blocking traffic. 

Well, as I developed this question, I solved it as well. Linux to the rescue of Windows was the solution. Using Gparted, I analyzed the partitions to look for any differences as the partition was technically a "sector-by-sector clone". Turns out they were the same, EXCEPT the starting sectors were different. The starting sector of the Windows parition on the old drive was 2048; the starting sector on the new was 63. Well, I deleted the partition and re-cloned using gparted making sure they started at the same sector and marked the partition as bootable after the clone finished. Voila!, Windows started right up! Sheesh. Anyone have insight into why this was the problem? 

Use conditional formatting. Set the format to change the text to white if the the condition is true; usually an IF statement is used for the condition. 

The result should be 631.25; not 4,725 but I cannot figure out why it is adding incorrectly. This exact same formula works fine in another workbook; this is from a template we use everyday that has never had this issue before. Excel 2010; windows 7. This is from a Vlookup+Vlookup*Vlookup which the final steps are all returning correct values. But the final result is wrong. Any ideas? 

Now we need to configure the Wi-Fi interface to connect to the other network. Edit and modify the entry for the radio you want to use: 

Windows 7 PC connects to the first one via WiFi, and to the second via Ethernet port. Another device connects to second router using Ethernet for now because I cannot get its WiFi working. I want to connect the second device to Internet somehow. I have installed a minimal OpenWRT install on the second router (not that I have any experience using it), and tried configuring the router to put one of the wlan interfaces into managed mode by editing its wireless configuration like so: 

With the above two lines in sudoers (you can edit the suoders with command), user account named will be able to run without password: 

This removes the data under key from the localStorage, and reloading the page may restore it to 'factory settings'. If you're not sure if the particular key is set by the cookie notification functionality, you may open the page in incognito mode, and list the contents of localStorage before and after interacting with the page. Again, I doubt too many sites use localStorage for this purpose. 

This did not produce the result I expected. Is what I'm trying generally a good approach? How do I make this work? EDIT: Added diagram kindly provided by Cont7e 

Sounds like you have an intermittent connection problem. To start, if the motherboard does not exhibit the same behavior with the power and reset button attached as not attached, it probably is not the MB; it is probably the buttons. But, if it does the same thing when you isolate the MB from everything else (disconnect buttons and technically all other hardware except CPU and RAM just for thoroughness), it is probably the MB or the PS. Test the resistance of your power button with a multimeter. It should normally be infinite (usually read as "1") ohms. Then, with the multtimeter, push the button, it should read near 0 ohms. Test your reset button as well the same way, it should exhibit the same behavior. Also check to make sure the back plane of you MB is not shorting the power pins by reading the resistance across the pins, it should read something other than near 0 ohms; not sure what though could be high, could be low. Put a small smount of pressure on the board with your fingures at that location, and test resistance at the same to see if it changes, it should not. Problem with your question is the power button and rest button typically (not always) do the same thing and usually can be swapped with each other. So if you swapped them, and it still came on right away, then either both buttons are bad or it is something other than the buttons, like a short on the back plane; but then it should have started and /or turned off with the buttons disconnected as well.. Could be you connectors themselves are bad also if the screwdriver works but the buttons do not and they test properly with a multimeter. You could do the same test to the buttons with them connected to the MB out of the computer and test the resistance of the buttons on the MB itself, it should do the same things as above. Infinite resistance usually, 0 when button pressed. 

1080p YouTube HTML5 video running on the secondary monitor (in Chrome or Firefox): ~44 FPS, CPU load: ~50% on core 4. The same YouTube video running on the primary monitor on top of the game: ~48 FPS, CPU load: ~50% on core 4. SMPlayer playing a 1024x426 AVC video on the secondary monitor: ~50 FPS, CPU load: ~25% on core 4. 

1080p YouTube HTML5 video running on the secondary monitor (in Chrome or Firefox): ~48 FPS, CPU load: ~50% on core 4. The same YouTube video running on the primary monitor on top of the game: same results as in (1). SMPlayer playing a 1024x426 AVC video on the secondary monitor: ~48 FPS, CPU load: ~25% on core 4. 

I am trying to understand why I experience FPS drops in demanding games when a video is playing in background and how to fix it. My particular setup (see the specs at the bottom): two monitors in extended desktop mode, the primary monitor connected via DisplayPort to an AMD R9 390 video card, the other via DVI alternatively to the on-die Intel HD 4600 graphics output or to the R9 390's DVI output. I will demonstrate the problem with Witcher 3 game, but the same problem occurs with at least one other game that I tried - World of Tanks (which is where the issue actually matters, as sometimes I put on music from YouTube while in game). In all the experiments below I run Witcher 3 on my primary monitor in windowed full-screen mode and measure the FPS in it with FRAPS. To guarantee stable FPS, I put the game on pause (by pressing ESC). I also set affinity of the Witcher 3 process to the first 3 cores and set the affinity of other applications to the 4th core. The CPU load has remained stable on cores 1-3 throughout the tests at 45-50%. Baseline test when the game is not running: CPU load is at ~0% on cores 1-3 and ~5% on core 4. Baseline test when the game is running, but no video being played in parallel: stable 58 FPS, CPU load: ~10% on core 4. First batch of tests: the secondary monitor is connected to the R9 390. 

The identifies the value set by JavaScript on the page you are on. If you believe does something relevant, you can try removing it by running the following: 

If you fancy using Linux, most distributions can be installed and booted off removable storage including external drives and SD cards. You could set aside a small partition on the external drive that is used for the Liunux OS, and then keep the rest as a FAT/NTFS filesystem. You will also need a tool on the Windows 7 machine that would synchronize the contents of the FAT/NTFS filesystem with a local directory. A tool like rsync is ideal, but not sure if one can be found for Windows. If you can't find it, another option is to run rsync from within the Linux OS on the external drive: boot it, sync the folders, and then boot Windows. Unless the files you are working on are large, I would suggest using an SD card instead of an external hard drive. It may not boot on some PCs, however, so you should first check. SD cards are far more robust than hard drives and there are large SD cards on market now that aren't too expensive (32GB should suffice for most purposes unless you are doing video or photo work). Booting from SD cards is also somewhat faster. 

BUT a rock solid (read overkill) backup "program" could mitigate almost ALL problems that arise other than downtime. Backups includes versioning and saving of deleted files, something RAID and other hardware solutions have NOTHING to do with. 

I got the same error due to an ill marked UUID in the bootloader and This guy had the answer for me along with these available commands in grub recover mode. Essentially first, you need to identify the drive and partition that has the grub menu files typically located in /boot/grub 

It is the seek time that is killer on any platter type drive. Also know that disks are constant angular velocity which means files are read faster on the outside edge of the disk vs the inside edge. So use these two facts to your advantage. Move all user data (my documents, my pictures, music, videos, temp internet files, even chromes using a junction, ANY thing not used by OS regularly) to another partition and condense you OS partition to 25%-35% free space. This pushes your OS files to the edge of the disk and it condenses the file locations physically on the disk so the head has to move less to read the files. Just make sure you give windows lots of room to grow on a new install (50% +/- free space) or leave 25%-35% free space on an older install. Use your computer for a few days like normal so files are accessed and used enough to show a pattern to a defrag program. Then defrag using a third party utility using a smart placement scheme or by access time scheme. This will make it so your OS files are literally on the outside edge of the drive and hopefully grouped in a way that multiple files read together are placed together or at least close to each other (doesn't exactly work, but it helps) We go as far as to use a second drive and put OS on first partition of drive 1, and install all programs on the first partition of drive 2. Shouldn't do much difference (I don't think files are called upon simultaneously) but it seems to make things faster yet. My wife doesn't understand why her "old" P4 2.8 runs faster than her friends computers (every one has a newer computer than her). All this hooplah is part of the reason. Also, to take things even further, stop all unneeded background processes and programs; many of them occasionally seek a file on the drive and many of them turns into regular seeks that will slow normal operation. This is usually minimal though compared to the rest of the things. 

You could probably use .netrc file (note: I havent't done this myself). You could either generate dynamically at runtime or have it sit there. EDIT: As long as your script has access to .netrc, so does the user that runs the script. So if you give the script to someone else and that someone else has access to the private key, it doesn't matter that you don't have the password hard-coded in the script. 

They asked you if you'd like to store preferences in cookies, not whether you'd like them to set cookies in general. So if I were writing support for this feature, I'd set a separate cookie (e.g., ) and check whether user has this cookie. There is a good chance you'll find such a cookie for that site, which you can clear without clearing other cookies or history. Inspecting cookies set for a particular page In Firefox, you can list cookies for a particular page by right-clicking a blank part of the page, then selecting View page info option. You'll find a "View Cookies" button in the "Security" tab. In Chrome, you have the same "View page info" option, which opens a dialog that hangs from the address bar. Link near the top will take you to a listing of cookies. I assume similar features can be found in other browsers. Discovering if site sets a cookie Here's one way you can discover what the site is doing. Open the site in Incognito mode. Open developer tools and switch to Network tab. Then check out what activity is happening in the background as you decline to have the site track you with cookies. Specifically, look for response headers and see if there are any 'Set-Cookie' headers in there. Then try deleting cookies mentioned in the header and see if that makes any difference. About localStorage Since another poster has mentioned localStorage (in-browser database), I'll comment on that as well. I think it'll be very rare that the site uses localStorage for this purpose as localStorage data isn't accessible to the server unless there is JavaScript code that sends the data back to server. If you wish to check the contents of the localStorage, the fastest way is to open the developer tools in your browser, go to (JavaScript) Console tab, and type . This should give you an output that looks something like: