You'll need to do this on each client that you'll be accessing this site from. For Windows clients it will be very similar: 

Yes, just add your user account to the www-data group. This will usually be all you need. If you have some files\directories which for some reason are not readable by the www-data group and you don't want to change them, then use sudo (if you have it; otherwise you'll want to just log in and use to modify the files). The reason it is a bad idea to log in as www-data via sudo is two fold. First, it is just annoying to create a home directory for www-data when it isn't needed. Secondly (and much more importantly), you don't want to allow any of the built in accounts to login via ssh. The reason that is a problem is because now a hacker only needs to guess the password. With your regular user account they'd also need to guess the user name. This advise mostly applies to the root account but it is also valid for www-data. 

Then (if you named it libload) it works like this You could also just put your code right in the file if that is easier. Also, it should be possible to add something like: to the top of each script but on my setup that doesn't work right ATM for some reason. Even so, it'd be nearly as easy to add to each file. It probably isn't a good idea to alias all calls to zsh. It is better for you to make a modified interpreter like I have shown than to replace the default ZSH command (or the default for any other interpreter). 

If the cells are selected already then just press CTRL + ENTER. You can also drag the square in the bottom right of the cell after you press ENTER if you forget. Also, when specifying a cell. If you put a $ in front of either the column, the row, or both the column or row will remain the same for all items. If not then that row or column will be relative to the value in the current cell. For example, if you have selected and you enter into the formula for and press CTRL + ENTER then the values in will be used in the corresponding cells. If you use then all cells will use the value in . UPDATE The only way that I'm aware of to do what you are wanting without using intermediate values is to use VBA. The basic function you want is simple. It will look something like this: 

You can select which document that your settings apply to in the dropdown. Then make sure is selected to make sure that others can see this document properly. This is especially important in an office environment where many users may not have the ability to install the font on their machine. 

You could replace the with an actual directory path or a batch parameter variable if you don't want this to work on the current directory. I've used some special variable modifiers here. A partial list of those available are: 

Press Win + R Type , and press Enter Click the character that you'd like. Press Alt + S, Alt + C Open your document and paste the character where you want it. 

The exact meaning of this may change slightly from card to card but that is referring to either your optical output or (most likely) the (usually) yellow\orange RCA type connector (SPDIF) on the back of the sound card. You aren't going to hear anything unless that connector is attached to a compatible device. Be careful though because many speakers use red\white analog RCA connectors; this type of speaker will not work with SPDIF (and could theoretically damage your speakers; but that is very unlikely). In general, digital out is meant for connecting to other devices (such as an external amplifier) and not directly to speakers themselves. Speakers which support it are around though, but they are way overpriced because they need extra hardware which is almost entirely pointless (the exception being that if your cable is very long digital signals won't degrade until the signal is beyond saving). 

This doesn't work in your registry entries because they are not executables. Here is the updated regedit file: 

Most home routers support some sort of rudimentary traffic meter. There is nothing stopping you from putting a router between the ISP supplied router and the rest of your network. You would then be able to use the new router to meter your traffic as long as it was the only thing plugged into the old router. 

The problem is that Bash is a system shell; not a DB shell. Assuming that you are using MySQL, you can get to a DB shell with the following command: 

This will do a ping sweep and list all computers which respond to a ping on your network (assuming that the network is 192.168.10.*). More information about nmap can be found here: $URL$ 

You may also want to set the target PC to use a static IP so that you don't ever need to change this. No restart is needed. It should work instantly upon save. As long as you don't name your PC something that is in use at work you shouldn't need to make any changes between work and home and it should just work. 

I'd consider this (mostly) self documenting but if you have a specific question about it then ask. Just put that file somewhere in your path and then run it like this: 

You will need to enable VBA for this. Then you want to paste this in your VBA editor after anything else: 

You cannot really use this directly in column E because that would be a circular reference. That is bad because the original data in Sheet1 column E is lost after the first invocation. You need the new column in order to keep the original data. Excel will allow it but the results are almost guaranteed to not be what you're expecting. You can hide the original Sheet1 column E by resizing it to 0 pixels wide and have a similar effect (it'll just skip over that column letter for display but it'll still be there to hold the original data).