I have only done this once before with Windows 7, but many times with Vista and XP. Generally with all of them, moving to a new physical system requires a little work, but it is quite manageable normally. As a general rule, I reinstall windows on top of itself. This preserves your data and most installed programs while reconfiguring the registry and getting the proper drivers installed. I have known people to move harddrives and just install the appropriate drivers without reinstalling windows, and this has worked in some cases, but overinstalling windows normally gives cleaner results. The one case where I would expect significant problems, that I have never personally tried, is moving from a 32 bit system to a 64 bit system. As with all major changes, you probably want to make a thorough backup of the data before making the change (or better, just double check the automated backups you already have....) 

Count the number of students (i.e. where column has a value of ) that ALSO have a (column ) value of or . 

This is a bit of a complicated question.. so bear with me! I have a spreadsheet which I've set up as a tally chart - for ease of inputting paper-based data. 

So, for instance, if the list has 5 Gold Gifted students, but only 4 of those students have a target grade of A* or A, the value I would want displayed is 4. I'm not even sure where to start. I've tried the following formula but I'm not sure I'm even on the right lines: 

We (the educational establishment I work for) use Office365 for e-mail. We recently set up a Google Apps for Education account on the same domain, to use with students, and we didn't really think we'd need e-mail access. However, we've since learnt that it would be useful to have access to e-mails for notification purposes, e.g. when homework tasks are set/fed back on. At the moment, our students have addresses like and staff have . These are the same formats that we use on our Office365 accounts (which some, but not all, students have access to for Office Pro Plus). Is there any way of setting our Google Apps domain up so that Gmail only tries to send to itself? At the moment, if I send an e-mail to a colleague from my Google account, they will receive it in O365. I would like Gmail to only ever send to other Google accounts, especially when sending feedback notifications etc. If I send an e-mail from Google to a colleague, I'd want it to go to their Google account - not O365. Thanks in advance 

Have you considered SciTE? It handles searching in multiple files quite gracefully and is completely free. 

I do not know how to do it in Adobe Illustrator, but there are 3rd party programs that will do it in batches. I have a rather inelegant one I wrote for my wife, but I posted the complete code at pypicresizer on Google code. I suspect there are a number of others that are a bit more user friendly than the one I wrote out there. 

Core Question How can I ensure that my GeForce GTS 450 is working properly? Background: I have an AlienWare system with dual GeForce GTS 450 in SLI running Windows 7 SP1. Shortly after I got it, I installed the Folding @ Home GPU client and that seemed to work quite well. Later, I ran into issues and reformatted the harddrive and reinstalled all the software piece by piece rather than using the straight "Factory Restore" option. This let me avoid many of the trial programs and other programs that came with it that I never used. The system works quite nicely, except that the Folding @ Home GPU client will not process anything other than its test unit and gives messages about the core not being available. I tried the non-GPU F@H client and that seems to work. The only game I play currently is SW:TOR but that seems to work without problems. I would like to get the F@H working to contribute again, but my main concern is making certain that my video cards are working properly. 

Since then I've tried to follow a few guides. I've tried to create the partitions using but nothing has worked. I've now got a drive with 3 partitions - 2 unallocated partitions (~229mb total) and 1 healthy ~490Gb partition containing the OS files (which I can still view/access, I haven't touched that partition at any point). The guides I've followed are for UEFI... but they seem to mention steps that I can't see like . I don't have anything like that! What steps do I need to take to set the right "System" and "Reserved" partitions up, and make my Windows 7 drive bootable again? I've got the Windows 7 CD that I used to install the OS in the first place but obviously the "repair" function doesn't work because it doesn't see any OS. Help..! :) 

Is there some way to add files to an encrypted archive without providing the password for that archive? For example, if you are using dropbox which has a TrueCrypt encrypted file on it, it is easy to use TrueCrypt in portable mode to mount that file and then add to it. But if you are working on a computer that is not fully trusted, that involves not just entering the password but actually permitting that computer at least temporary access to the unencrypted archive. That may not be desirable, but you may need to add files to that archive from the not fully trusted computer. My suspicion is that not only is there no current way to do this, but that there can be no way of doing it, but I would like to know if I am missing something. 

The column has a relatively simple formula to count the entries from my questionnaires: . Each column after , i.e. , and so on up to represents one questionnaire. So, if the column contains a in , it means that questionnaire's response was "I am a girl". As an example, the below questionnaire in row would have answered "1A: Boy", "1B: Year 9", "1C: (cell C7) Secret Middle School", "1D: Never attended any other high school", "2A: Have been bullied", "2D: In middle school" etc. 

Having a bit of a nightmare this morning. I've got 5 machines to setup. I've set one of them up perfectly, then I tried to take an image using Acronis Disk Director. However... I've managed to break everything in the process. Here are the steps I took in Disk Director: 

I have some relatively young children and when I got a faster computer, I gave them my old one. For the moment, I am keeping that computer entirely off network, but I would like to be able to put a few movies or tv shows on it for them. But I am being stymied in looking for a legal way to do this. I would love to be wrong, but I believe rippin a DVD generally violates the DMCA, so I cannot go that route. When buyin movies that are supposed to come with a digital copy, installing the digital copy virtually always requires an internet connection and is not (at least in a reasonably easy and legal way) transferrable to another computer which is not networked. I cannot find any site that would legally sell decent show downloads which are not heavily encumbered by DRM that also often requires an internet connection, even for government supported programs like Nova on PBS. So, are there any options I am overlooking? 

Regardless of what I try, I can't get the weeks to group starting on a Monday. Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated! 

I don't even know where to start. Could someone please point me in the right direction? I'm fairly comfortable with Excel formulae but I haven't used a lot of or Pivot Tables. Thanks in advance, Duncan 

As you can see, the grouping starts on 6th Sep 2017 which was a Wednesday. Presumably this is because where my data starts. Unfortunately, this renders the data somewhat useless. I need the data grouped by weeks starting on a Monday. I've tried changing the Starting With and Ending With settings to: 

In Excel 2016, I'm trying to set up a pivot table which has a Date-format column and group it by weeks. Ungrouped, the data looks like this: 

There are some sites that I use that require flash, but generally I would rather not use flash at all while working on the web. Is there some way to instruct Firefox to only permit flash use by certain sites? 

If I have two computers, both running Windows 7, on my home network, is there some way to write a script so that I can click on a single icon on the one computer and make the other computer execute a program? Clearly, I could do this by accessing the other computer through remote desktop connection and then executing the program, but I would like to avoid (or at least automate) making the connection so I can just click a single icon to have it happen. 

No option to "Clone Basic Disk" on the working local HDD Converted the local HDD from GPT to MBR Used "Clone Basic Disk" to copy this HDD to an external HDD Tried to boot the local machine... 

When you e-mail someone in Office 365 (through webmail or Outlook client), it must "store" the recipient's address somewhere as when you then go to e-mail them later on their name can autocomplete in the address bar (e.g. if I've e-mailed sales@blah.com, I can then start typing a new e-mail and write "sa" into the address bar and it will suggest sales@blah.com). Is there a way of getting a list of these e-mail addresses? I'm basically trying to find a list of any e-mail addresses I have sent to in the past (preferably date-filtered, if this is possible). We're moving e-mail domains on fairly short notice so I'd like to show staff how to e-mail everyone they need to saying "please update your records, I'm now using X.Y@domain.com e-mail address". EDIT: I am trying to get a list of my O365 users' e-mail recipients, e.g. people they have sent e-mails to, rather than a list of my O365 users' e-mail addresses. Ideally I would like the users themselves to be able to do this - to get a list of e-mail addresses which they can then send a BCC'd e-mail to stating "I have changed e-mail address". 

Is there some way to set up shortcuts to easily switch between having two monitors extended or duplicated simply? Perhaps a powershell script that would set it to one and another powershell script that would set it to the other settings? (My motivation is that when I am working alone I want the monitors set to extended to be able to use them both effectively, but sometimes when collaborating or displaying something it is convenient to have the display duplicated. Since I go back and forth, frequently, I would like a shortcut to make the change, rather than going through the Screen resolution menu in Windows 7 every time.) 

It depends on exactly what you mean by safe. CD-ROMS are read only and even CD-Rs and CD-RWs often require special efforts (at least on the OS end of things) to write to more than once. So, it is generally impossible to infect a LiveCD, unless it was somehow infected at time of creation. Now, the session can certainly become infected. But if you are careful about not running programs from the harddrive and only accessing data of types that you know is not infected you should be able to keep that risk very low indeed. I have in the past booted off a known clean harddrive in order to pull essential data off a partially corrupted or infected drive before formatting the drive with some success, if that is what you are looking for.