So Im making a topdown 2d rpg in slick2d and lwjgl 2, and I wanna make a map, but not just random map, something like this: 

so I've made a basic game in java w/ LWJGL 2 and Slick. Right now Im working on the hud and health system. I'm kindof trying to get a minecraft like health system, 15 hearts for health,but I want the health to change from level to level. Right now Ive got this: 

Im making an rpg game and right now I'm working on crafting. I've made a crafting slot class, and an arrayList of that class. I've got 10 of those slots in total, 9 placed in a 3x3 'order' and 1 below (like the minecraft inventory). I want to check if the 9 slots contain some items in a particular way, and if they do to put a item in the 10th slot. I can figure out how to craft stuff, but I don't know how to read all those 9 slots at the same time (btw Im using an enhanced for loop to update and render all of 'em). I figured I would check if the slots contain items in this order 

I have tried using the player as an attractor object which kind of works - the missile orbits the player object, but it mainly looks like it's moving backwards and forwards while the player object is standing still. 

$URL$ is a lovely tutorial to game state management! You can use it either for game entities or for a menu system like above. He starts teaching about the State Design Pattern, and then goes on to implement a , and successively extends it further and further. It's a very good read! Will give you a solid understanding of how the whole concept works and how to apply it to new types of problems! 

I've made a button class that can be drawn and clicked on. How can I write the text of that button (using the slick drawing API, g.drawString()) with a Centered alingment (so that the text is exactly centered in a rect with defined x,y,widht and height). Thanks 

Ive made this 'game' where you can fire an aibility (a fire ball for instance) from the player towards the mouse (to the point where the mouse was at the time of casting/fireing/shooting the ball), now Id like to know how I could implement it so that if it reaches its destination that it stops, and also how I could make it travel in the direction of the mouse but for a ciurtant distance only. Here's the code for the fire ball thing: 

Why not create a object that is a list of marked words in the order they were chosen? Something like this.. 

I would use: 1. Code management GIT (and the awesome reference), a distributed source code manager, for managing my code, and host it on GitHub as a private project if I want to keep it off limits. (There are A LOT of options here, just google for source code management, you don't even NEED to use GitHub or any other website, Git will work just fine on your local computer, but using GitHub will make the pain of managing backups a lot easier. If you have two computers you can create a repository on one that you'll call your backup machine, then you clone that repository over the local network and use it for development, when you're done with a feature you can push it to the backup machine and you'll have a 1:1 backup!) 2. Issue & Feature management I would use Trello or GitHub's built-in issue management to keep track of bugs and things to do. 3. Have a Design Process I would design my game first; 

Im making a topdown 2d game, and I've made a decent entity system so far. But I want to do the following with it: I want to have drawing depth, so if a , for instance, tree is above another tree then it should be drawn underneath the other tree. Here is baisicly a picture of what I mean. This is what Im trying to avoid: 

Im making a game and Im working on the collision. First Ill tell you what I want (Ill put in pictures), then Ill leave the code. What I want: I want the player to stop exactly before its collision box (a rectangle) intersects with a wall collision box. Right now this only happens sometimes, sometimes it doesnt go all the way to the wall, that is probably because the velocity is too big I guess. Here are the pictures: 

How to manage a project remotely Establish communication channels and routines for how to communicate so that information is never lost, and so that it is shared between everyone who wishes to partake in that flow of information. Communication is the pillar your project will stand on, if it isn't rigid and sturdy, your project's downfall is inevitable. Suggestions: 

I just found a publisher with what seems to be a great list of possible books: $URL$ - they're the publishers of the Game Programming Gems series. 

first in my mind, then on paper, then probably use GameMaker or PyGame to prototype my idea, and iterate over 1-3 until I have something that I enjoy playing. 

The blue stuff is water and rivers, the gray in the middle is "the mountains" and such. How could I create such a map design, but a random one through code. If anyone has an idea of how this is done, please tell me, or even link a tutorial if you know a good one. Thanks. 

What is better way of setting up a map for a java 2D topdown game? Would it be having an ArrayList of tiles, a simple 2D array, a HashMap? (Note: the tiles/blocks or whatever are squared) 

(4 being stone and 3 being the stick item) Each slot has its own item variable. So how can I access all of them at the same time? Or even if there is a simpler way to do this. Thank you 

I personally like Trello the most, you can assign work there based on the tasks you create, and it's very versatile, so you can use it for lots of different needs! How to handle the profits If you are serious about your passion and project, you should create a company, but this is a bit over my head, so I can't give you more advice on this except that it will be easier to determine ownership at the end of the month if everyone have their ownership stated and signed on paper witnessed by lawyers. 

which saves the number of instructions that the computer has to perform because you don't have to use the somewhat costly sqrt() function! 

If you have any idea how to do this, please tell me. If you need any code heres baiscily what I do: In my main class I call a generate entityes class. In that then I add Tree class-es to an arraylist through wich it renders them. Thanks. 

My question: How do I make it move all the way to the wall, never leaving a gap inbetween the player and the wall? 

Left: it works good, it goes all the way to the wall (btw the red square is the collision box). Right: The player only goes down that much and leaves a gap inbetween it and the wall (the circle shows the gap) and you can not go down to go all the way to the wall. The movment code: