I have a mounted NTFS partition under Windows (2003) and Linux (RHEL 5.7) at the same time. The LUN resides on SAN and is presented to both servers at the same time. At first, the setup looks ok as I initially can see files from both Windows and Linux. Writes are only initiated from Windows and I mounted the partition under Linux with read only (ro) and no access time (noatime) options. But when I add files from Windows, I can't see them under Linux. Is there anything I'm missing? Is it even possible at all? I would like to achieve this in order to avoid copying from the network for a data migration of > 1Tb. Do you see any other way to do it? 

I personally prefer using process accounting for this kind of activity monitoring. It is also the one that is the most similar to what you are looking for (commands summary, login summary...). 

Vim has vimdiff mode which is quite good. It obviously works in console mode too. It give you color highlighting of differences and the possibility to edit the diffed files efficiently. Vim is also installable or even installed on most *nix system these days... It is better if you already know Vim though... 

You've got a bad glue record for ns2.maisturismo.net -- it thinks it's on 67.213.220.17, not 67.213.220.171. 

The short version is that reverse DNS is used to get a domain name from an IP address, while normal DNS is used to get an IP address from a domain name. The way it actually works is that there's a dummy top-level domain called in-addr.arpa, and to find the domain name for IP address A.B.C.D, the DNS client does a lookup on D.C.B.A.in-addr.arpa. There are various complicated rules for delegation of sub-domains of in-addr.arpa to ensure that those requests go to the correct place. The Wikipedia article is OK, although perhaps a little terse: $URL$ What it means to you is that if you own a block of IP addresses, and you want to be able to create reverse DNS records for those addresses so that their domain names can be looked up, you need to make sure that whoever you got the block from has set up an appropriate delegation so that you manage a sub-domain of in-addr.arpa and can thus create the appropriate DNS PTR records. 

We have a spare Integrity blade (2x Tukwila quad-core + 16Gb RAM) laying around which I would like to use has a Virtual Host for a couple of Linux VMs. I am having some concerns finding the best solutions for our situation (if a solution is possible at all?). Here's what I'm dealing with: 

Version Control Gold Server Directory/Authentication Servers Network File Servers Configuration/Application management Monitoring ... 

Right now, I've thought about dd, cp and rsync, but I'm not sure on the best one to use and the best way to use them... 

When adding a new drive, it took over /dev/sda1. Now my old drive is /dev/sda2 and it messes with the current fstab setup of the server. I know I can get away with using UUID or labels (what I just did), but I would still prefer having the primary drive take /dev/sda1... So, how do I force a disk to take a particular device number? 

If you really want to use , you need to first select a window with , but be aware this configuration does not configure logging for all windows... 

I am trying to set up SSH to a SCO Unix server that runs custom software that uses the function keys on the keyboard, however the keys do not appear to be in the correct format for SCO to recognise. None of the keyboard options on PuTTY work, including the SCO option. How do I change the keycodes that SCO/bash is looking for when it wants a function key? If it helps, the system is upgrading from Wyse50 terminals. thanks! 

This will cause the NTP daemon to update the time once in the foreground and will allow large time changes. 

This would give you a single PFX file that contains your all three of your CA's certificates, your certificate, and your private key. You can then upload it to Azure using the same process you used previously. 

At it's default settings, ntpd will refuse to make any large changes to the system clock, as it assumes something has gone wrong. To force a large NTP update, do the following: 

Mainly, it's so that you can correlate incidents from logs on different devices. Suppose you have a security incident where someone accesses your database through your web server -- you want the timestamps on your firewall, your load balancer, your web server and your database server to all match up so that you can find the logs on each device that relate to the incident. Ideally, you'd like everything to be within a few milliseconds. And it needs to be in sync with the actual external time, so that you can also correlate your logs with third-party logs if that should become necessary. 

New A records shouldn't have any propagation delay at all, since they aren't cached anywhere. Any DNS client that can't find your new record in a cache should be going direct to your authoritative servers. It's only changes to existing records that can suffer from a delay. 

It's not likely to cache it on the router itself, but it's certainly possible to configure another port to mirror an active port, and attach a device to it that records all the packets received. You should always assume that ISP staff can view any unencrypted traffic that passes through their ISP. 

As per @HBruijn's comment, Gmail only supports retrieving email through POP3, not IMAP. This has been confirmed on their product forums Both Gmail and Dovecot support POP3 over SSL, which you should be able to use by opening port 995 on your firewalls, and directing Gmail at it. 

If the DHCP servers were added to the domain, then there will definitely be references to the domain after they have been removed from it. The only safe way to guarantee there is no AD data on the server is to wipe the disks and reinstall windows (though it may still be possible to get the data back with the use of data recovery software). 

As these are both HP products, you should be able to find a sticker on each with a part number (probably labled p/n) that you can look up on the HP website to identify which is which. 

If the card does not show under the lspci command, you most likely have a dead PCIe slot. Do you have any other PCIe cards you can test in the slot? 

The forbidden image is being cached in your web browser. You need to use mod_headers to set it to never cache. Try: 

There's no technical reason why you can't use a wildcard SSL certificate for *.example.co.uk on as many servers as you want whose domain names match the wildcard. But some certificate issuers have commercial terms & conditions that limit the number of servers on which the certificate can be used. It's not a technical limit, and the certificate will still work on as many servers as you want; you'll just be in breach of your contract with them if you use it on more servers than you have agreed. Of course that won't apply to your self-signed certificates that you're using to test it out, but it may when you get round to actually obtaining a certificate that's signed by a trusted CA. 

A private key is in RSA format, not X509. Use "rsa" instead of "x509" in your openssl conversion command. 

Safe compared to what? Compared to running your different environments on separate physical hardware, VMs are not as safe, but that would be fantastically expensive. Compared to running your environments as different processes in the same instance of the OS, which is the practical alternative, VMs are pretty safe. 

Hoping somebody here can help, as I'm a bit stuck on what to try next. Essentially, I had a RAID5 of 4 disks in . One of the disks started failing, not enough to have eject it, but enough to affect the server. So I physically removed the drive and rebooted the server. On boot, I get a message about needing to run an interactively (which makes sense, as the server became unresponsive several times due to the failing disk) and drops me into a shell, but the keyboard doesn't work (num-lock flashes each time I press a key, but no output. Works fine in BIOS and GRUB). I started a live environment and installed onto it, which found and assembled the RAID. But running from there complains about an invalid super-block. I've still got the failed drive (didn't do anything that stupid) but I'm not sure how to go about recovering the data. Could there be an LVM on the RAID that's stopping fsck? And if so, how would I bring it online in the live environment? Thanks!