since mod_userdir is disabled at the new host -- and I'm told that enabling it is not exactly simple. So that IP address and account name will not resolve. Great - so at the new host let's put the site at a dedicated IP address. Nope,that won't work either because the .htaccess rule that rewrites all traffic to "www." means it will break - you get this: 

I'm at the mercy of a sys admin who handles middleware config for an application I'm working on. Long story short I asked for SSL to be enabled for the application. The app is split up between a PHP layer being served from Apache httpd, and a set of REST services in Java, being served by Tomcat 8.5 (standalone) on port 8443. After the sys admin told me "your SSL is fully configured", I hit the base app at: 

Am I correct in saying that my .htaccess rule would simply take over what phpBB and WordPress would have been doing (internal re-writes) anyway? Or am I missing something? 

I have a customer whom I will be hosting a website for, let's say it is . I'm still pretty new at this, thus the worry about what is probably something fairly simple: Right now is only used for email, and the email service is via which is a service provided by their broadband company. The domain registrar () is using the nameservers provided by The email service does not allow any access to DNS records. Or if they do, nobody on their tech support team knows how to allow it. Therefore, I can't simply change the A record to point to my http service. It appears that I'm going to need to eliminate the email hosting company as DNS and either use the DNS zone at the registrar -- or change DNS at the registrar to my own DNS servers - where I will establish the MX records. I just want to make sure my game plan will not cause them any impact to email services. DIG AXFR fails; connection refused. DIG @ns-0.airmail.net example.com ANY reports this: 

The most basic is to keep an eye on amount of CPU load, free memory & swap, disk space, disk I/O, and network/bandwidth I/O. This can be done using tools like munin or collectd. Some people like to monitor a lot of things, but if you keep it simple at least you can get the overall picture. I also recommend that you configure the monitoring tools to send you email alerts when things start to go wrong (ie using "thresholds" or similar). Another very useful thing is to keep an eye on the most important server logs for anything unusual, ie error messages or perhaps even warnings. But such messages can be very common depending on how the various softwares are configured to log. Usually, daemons have a config file where you can change the "LogLevel" from error (=only log when something is broken) to debug (=log anything). Check which demons you have running on your server, and change the log levels to error or warning. Then you can install a log file analysis tool such as OSSEC and train it to be silent when certain things are acceptable while it should alert when things are broken. These alerts can be sent via email to you. For your specific services Nginx and Mysql, I recommend that you monitor their response time. This is good for two reasons: if you don't get a response at all, something is broken. ANd if you get a response that indicates an unusually high response time - especially if it's not temporary but over a period of say a few minutes or hours - then the service is struggling. 

I am able to get to this share with the IP address, FQDN, and straight typing the share in with no problem. Share is open to everyone without a problem. I am getting this error: 

I have uninstalled and reinstalled the components 3 times and I get the same issue. I cannot rebuild this server. How can I fix this WID issue to get the database working for WSUS? 

Above that you can apply any other GPOs you need but ensure you are still putting on all the upper level GPOs to make sure they are in the order you want. 

This allowed for a longer amount of time needed for Windows 10 to connect and check for updates, Reset the connections for all machines and allow for more memory for processing of updates which was a suggestion I found on a google search. 

I am trying to add/remove features from one server using the GUI Server Manager tool on Server 2012 R2. I have 2 servers doing this and both air connected to the same network and have no access to the internet. Upon trying to add/remove a feature from either of SERVER 1 or SERVER 2 I get the following error. 

Seems like there are no TXT records. Given this, does it seem like I have all the information I need and my plan is sound? I will set a low TTL at first, even though it probably doesn't matter since the MX target is not changing. (edit: I think I also have to consider and -- how do I know all the possible subdomains I need to check for DNS records?) Thanks for any advice you may have so I can complete this successfully. 

Other online tools warn me that no reverse-DNS PTR record exists for my domain. I asked my hosting company about it and they basically said "Right now all email is going through your cloud.example.com domain and through the IP address of the server. That IP does have a PTR record, so email will be fine. We recommend this instead of having email go through each static IP address and associated domain". So...is that an 'ok' answer or should I politely ask them again to please configure email for the domain I have at the other static IP address, to use that IP address -- and have a PTR record for reverse resolution? 

I have a site which is a combination of WordPress, phpBB forum and a PHP based shopping cart system. I have SSL running, and have always had it for the shopping cart, but would now like to simply redirect the entire site to https. As a test, I simply went to my browser and typed And behold, every page is being served over SSL - regardless of where I navigate. Seems perfectly normal. So, does this simple test mean I can safely do a .htaccess redirect like this? 

I found the issue was that .NET Framework 4.6 was installed. After uninstalling it and running the installer again all was installed fine without a problem. Reinstalled .NET 4.6 to run my other software after the installation was complete. There was some information I stumbled upon that .NET 4.6 and up can cause a problem with the installation of this software. Unisntall the .NET 4.6 or up and run the WSUS 3.0 SP2 installer again and then reinstall .NET 4.6. The WSUS installer will use the older .NET 2.0 framework to complete the installation successfully. 

Upon doing some research it states that my Terminal Services have been out of licensing for 120 days. This is where I get confused. NEVER have I had a licensing server running on any of my machines. All the RDC connections to work stations and Domain Controllers work without a problem; it seems to be just these 2 servers. It was working earlier this week and this just randomly started happening. Servers are running Windows Server 2008 R2 and is just for databases etc. Is there a way to get my RDC back without installing a Licensing Server since I didn't have one before and things were working or doing the Registry Stop gap of resetting the 120 days? Thanks. 

I kind of like hard-coding the actual domain because that guarantees nothing else gets touched, but I would imagine once I have a few hundred of these it may become silly. 

My hosted zone at AWS seem to be working fine so I am a little nervous about changing it -- but I noticed that my CNAME record for my white-label DNS looks like this right now (no trailing dot): 

still gives a warning on SSL. So, is there a hint of some sort or guidance, link to a good how-to, or anything I can share with this person to get her some help to understand how to get this SSL working on that Tomcat/port ? 

Does this method seem reasonable? Is there a better way to handle this, given the issue I am seeing? If I wanted to make this re-write generic to handle any incoming domain (as long as that domain does not include my base multisite domain name!) -- could someone show me how to form the condition/rule? 

Running WP multisite with client's able to use their own domain name. Works great - except the case where client does not use my nameservers and simply has an A record pointing to the WP static IP address. This happens sometimes when the client DNS has a ton of service records (e.g. Office 365), it is just safer to leave DNS there. When I control DNS, I can alias non-WWW to WWW, which makes WP multisite happy. When client is just using the A record pointer, the WP multisite trips on the incoming non-WWW request and lands at the sign-up page for the multisite. It really needs the 'www', to work right (unfortunately). I solve for each client by doing this in .htaccess: 

Want to know if it is possible to assign a network port on my server to only be accessed by the VM on that server. This would mean the host computer would not be able to use it to access that network resources. Configuration: 

I have a server running Windows Server 2008 R2 as a domain controller. I have a number of Windows 7 x64 Professional machines. I am trying to set Remote Desktop privileges to all users to login to all my domain machines. I have set the User Rights Assignment for to Authenticated users, Users, & Remote Desktop users. I have added to the group in Active Directory. I have also gone into Group policy and enabled the following setting: 

I have googled this error and I have found little information or none at all for this error. I have tried all of the suggestions I could find but nothing has resolved this issue. What I can make out of the last .ELT file when I open it with word is: 

So I am having an issues installing/removing features and rolls from a Windows Server 2012 R2 Server. I consistently come up with this error no matter which service, role, or feature I installed called WinRM Runspace pool invalid. Now I know the two servers can talk to each other through Server Manager and I know they are using WinRM and WSMan but I don't understand how if they can talk to each other how their getting a Runspace pool error. So I guess to better understand the error after all of the fixes I have tried is to try and understand what a "Runspace Pool" is and how to troubleshoot it? I can't find any information from Microsoft on what it is. Can anyone explain and maybe how it affects my error I am getting? 

If you choose the file structure option, one thing you can do to improve disk I/O performance at least to some degree is to mount the partition with noatime+nodiratime unless you must have them. They are not really important at all so I recommend doing that. Maybe you can also use a solid-state drive. 

I am setting up a single Debian server serving Magento with Mysql. High load is expected (millions of hits per day). I've been reading various people's comments and found so many different setups but I am not sure what to do if I want to. Load balancing between several servers would of course be nice but I have only one server. So how about this? Varnish in front of nginx and apache, where nginx does only static data and apache dynamic. Or would be a better idea to put varnish in front of apache only? So nginx is in front and having static data directly served by nginx and dynamic apache pages via varnish? 

Postfix. It's very reliable, still developed and used by many mail servers. Most Linux platforms support it. Works fine with php and mysql. If not postfix, then check qmail: same same but different. 

Sounds like a firewall is blocking traffic. I'd recommend using a udp sniffer..for linux, try tcpdump (which despite its name does also udp). 

I'm afraid to turn off that "www." rewrite rule because it was put in place years ago and I'm not sure what might break if it's not there. So at this point I see no way to move this site and have the old site redirect to the new site. I have TTL set very low so I am going to have to count on the global DNS caches refreshing in a reasonable amount of time (I can tolerate 24 hours). My head hurts. Am I missing anything or should I just go with the game plan to move the site and not even attempt to do the redirect from the old location? 

Is this working correctly because the system is smart enough not to append another to the value? Or should I just go ahead and add the dot at the end so it looks like this: 

I have one lingering issue with DNS for my domain, which sits at a static IP address on a server at my hosting company which has a few other domains sharing another IP address. When I check my DNS at dnsstuff.com I get one error: 

Also, am I correct in saying that if I want one domain to map to another via CNAME then the format must have the dot at the end, to avoid ambiguity? E.g.: 

EDIT 3: Findings Enabled firewall on the BDC and it is working so it seems the only problem is the DC. Not sure why it is doing that to itself but everything is still working and the firewall is off only on the DC. So I went on to BDC and changed the GPO settings while adding the Firewall rules and then applied. Everything seems fine so far but will verify a little more tomorrow. 

Looks like the secret key is not the issue. There is something preventing my credentials from passing with the network policy. This is a default policy with the following settings: 

I have a primary domain XXX.com running DHCP. I have a Child domain child.xxx.com running Static IP. In Active Directory Sites and Services I have both DCs under one group. I am able to ping and access files from the Primary DC to the Child DC. Main problem is I can't access the Active Directory from my primary domain control for the Child domain. In my server manager I can see the server but it says "Kerberos authentication error." Both servers are running Windows Server 2016. I tried to setup the child on a DHCP subnet but when it didn't work I put the server back in to the group in ADSS. I am afraid I broke some kind of trust that I can't fix. I am looking to at least get communication back before I figure out my subnet problem. What did I forget to change so that I can access my child A/D from my parent DC?