I am looking through the modules that my apache server has loaded. To get this list I am using the following command: 

In the list this provides there are a number of modules that I don't immediately recognise, specifically: 

As a possibly related issue, today I experience a server outage for reasons yet unknown. As part of the investigation into this I used Plesk to reboot the server. This action completed successfully and was the last action I performed in Plesk. Since the reboot I can access all services other than plesk itself. Having never encountered this issue before, and also being something of a newbie when it comes to administering a Linux based server, I have no idea where to go next? Is there are log file I can check for service start errors? Is the solution staring me in the face? Or maybe something else. Thanks in advance EDIT Something else that may or may not be relevant: After rebooting, and before attempting to access Plesk again I installed sysstat with yum in order to be able to use iostat. Other than that no other changes have been made to the server. EDIT 2 The last entry in the file is 

It would seem that when I attempt to access my Plesk admin page this is unavailable. After doing some cursory checks I discovered that the server was not listening for incoming requests on port 8443 (verified remotely via telnet). I therefore assumed that the service was not running and therefore issued the following command via SSH under the root account: 

When I perform the backup (initiated via a cron job) I set a .htaccess rule on my site to redirect any requests to a static "down for backup, back shortly" page. Once the backup completes I remove the rule and the site reopens. All well and good, it has been like this for years and as you can imagine this works perfectly well and I haven't had any issues. However... I would like to not have to close the site during the backup, so the question is can I do this with mysqldump? Is the tool capable of handling conditions where data changes after the backup initiates? If it does live backups can I guarantee that I won't get a corrupt backup? Is there a better way of doing a live backup? 

Once the resilvering was finished (which worked fine), I rebooted the machine to verify the setup before continuing to other disks. What I found, however, was that ZFS labeled as UNAVAIL. verified that dm-crypt activated the LUKS container correctly. Running causes ZFS to begin resilvering but then completes and resumes healthy operation in a manner of seconds. I'm guessing the dm-crypt device is simply not loaded when ZFS first tries to accesses ? Is it a question of load-order or do I need to be using a different identifier for the LUKS device in ? How do I ensure that ZFS sees these LUKS devices on reboot? This is a box (Arch) if that matters. Thanks! 

Keep SPF, DKIM, DMARC, and ADSP and give up using mailing lists, or Drop this DNS security/reporting layer and have my normal outgoing mail rejected by Google, Yahoo!, Live, etc. 

UPDATE 2: Also worth noting that while my localhost has trouble with these outbound connections, other clients (including on one, and one off, my LAN) have no issues whatsoever to any of the same remote hosts, or any other hosts. Again, leading me to believe that this is solely some config issue within localhost (but maybe I'm wrong?). 

UPDATE 1: Worth noting that I've been able to duplicate this behavior on a second SSH host, as well as an IRC server, thus proving (in my mind) that this is an issue wholly within some config on my local host. 

I'm having trouble connecting to my remote host via SSH. I have narrowed the issue down to my local host only as other clients make nominal (fast and stable) connections every time. Attempting to connect to from via SSH will time out all but about 1 out of 10 attempts (it hangs here and then times out): 

UPDATE 3: I have removed the openssh package (and configs) from localhost and reinstalled, to no avail. 

Looks to me like this is a DKIM signature failure, but I have no idea why. Is the receiving server trying to verify my DKIM signature against the mailing-list-server's key, or vice versa? For some reason, I wouldn't expect this to happen - I remember reading somewhere that in cases like this Relays and such will sometimes remove/munge headers like this to ensure these types of failures don't occur? 

EDIT 3 As the errors in the log seem to point to the issue that whose resolution is detailed here: $URL$ I have followed the guidelines in that KB, with the following outputs: 

Using the guide here: $URL$ I have create a certificate authority using OpenSSL. However I would now like to use the Microsoft CA instead. The question is, is it possible to "import" the root/sub certificates I created with OpenSSL into MSCA? 

If I attempt to start Plesk with the command I mentioned earlier 2 new entries, the same as the one above, are added to the error log. I have found some reference to this error log entry and these relate to an updated version of SSL breaking plesk, however I have not (to my knowledge) updated SSL (unless the install of sysstat did this in the background??) Output from is: 

So the question is : Does anybody know of a way of tracking down the location of the module file and the conf file that loaded it Worth noting that these are not loaded from httpd.conf (/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf) or the conf.d/*.conf location that httpd.conf includes. However there are conf files here that include other locations and these include others and its all a bit rabbit hole. So if there is a command to get the info I need then all the better 

When using HTTPs/TLS/SSL site traffic is encrypted between your browser (or the application initiating the connection) and the web server that is serving pages to you. This means that if any intermediary attempts to "listen" to your requests/responses all they will see is encrypted traffic. This encryption model is the same regardless of whether you are using a VPN or a standard internet connection. 

I would get a 403 error back, however all I am seeing is page.php. Conclusion is that the directives are malformed and not being followed. Could anybody offer any guidance on where I may have gone wrong? 

I have been staring at this for a while not I can't fathom it, probably a wood for the trees scenario. I am attempting to use HTACCESS to block certain inputs to a web server, so I have added the following directives: 

EDIT 2: Thanks to @Christopher Karel for referencing a DMARC report parsing tool at dmarcian.com. The lions share of entries are listed as forwarders (which makes sense). There is one server (*.mailhop.org) listed as "preserv[ing] DKIM" - I've sucessfully sent mail over one of the Ruby language forums which has worked, and I know from my research they use mailhop.org. Under the category "Servers that break DKIM signatures (or create spoofed signatures)" are listed , , (dunno why this appears here, maybe another list I'm on uses them as well in a different configuration), among others and the lists I've been most active on are Arch and a few hosted by Google Groups so this makes sense. About 400 messages in total - I haven't sent nearly that many messages, so I guess maybe it's counting retries. I'm getting depressed - at the moment it seems like my choices are: 

Is this proc wait delay real? Confirmable by VMWare documentation? If it is real (and not obvious from provided documentation), are there equations to measure projected impact of guest vcpu increases ahead of time? Tooling to measure what kind of real world impact the delay is already having? 

Where else can I look? What other debug tools can I use (all I can think to do is run )? I tried running on remotehost while attempting a connection, but couldn't figure out how to filter the packets from the shell running thus infinite-loop spamming myself out of any useful diagnostics. 

Turns out there doesn't seem to be anything wrong with my configuration. What's happening is that my messages are being processed by mailman correctly, and being relayed out to the list. There are a couple of receivers however which (for whatever reason is unique to them) reject the message. Because I have actually correctly configured SPF, I'm seeing the rejection message from those destination SMTP servers, not from the Mailing List relay itself. Some awesome folks in the Arch community helped me chase this one down, as they had access to said ML server. 

Answering my own question here (which by no means devalues the answer from JakeGould) I have finally found the cause of this, rather than a writeup it is all neatly summarised on this page: $URL$ Using the guidance on that page (and the linked articles) I looked at loaded Apache modules and found mod_view_proxy.so which is not a known Apache Module. This was being loaded into Apache via a LoadModule directive in /etc/httpd/conf.d/perl.conf. All files had been touched so the datetime stamp on them do not look suspicious. As blog entry mentions the SSHD had also been replaced with a different version. As to how it got compromised, not entirely sure - the assumption is that it was caused by running and older version of vBulletin and/or one of its plugins (which is entirely my fault). Also I need to give these guys their dues: $URL$ As you can see from this thread I had exhausted all ideas I had and also my technical ability, so as a last resort I went to Sucuri with everything I knew and had done. Yes, its a paid service but they found the issue, resolved it - their service was fantastic. They were genuinely interested in helping me navigate through this issue, a level service we don't often see these days. I have nothing but praise for them and would not hesitate to recommend them to anybody in my position. 

To be honest there are quite literally hundreds, maybe tens, of ways of doing this. Personally I would use a simple batch file that maps a network drive (net use) and then copies the files. Rather than copy or xcopy I would recommend using robocopy as this support functions such as mirroring. As for executing installers, thats a different question entirely. For this you could use remote command (rcmd) to execute the installer once you have copied it across. 

Rather than copy the MDF files around, a better solution is to take a backup of the database and then restore that backup onto your target SQL instance. Assuming you are using SQL Management Studio, you can do this by right clicking on your database and choosing: 

EDIT 1: Thinking back, and thanks @Alex for setting me straight, I really haven't provided enough data to make an accurate assessment. Here's an example of a notice I received on my address when attempting to post to a mailing list: 

Which exits cleanly, and brings the device back into the pool. Perhaps this is due to the load order of different modules during boot? Maybe the activation of dm-crypt devices is done such that ZFS begins importing pools before the LUKS container is properly open? 

I have recently configured my own mail server (Linux-based postfix + dovecot scenario). This is just for personal use - I have no bulk mail going out, no automatically generated mail outbound from the host, nothing like that. I've gone through the trouble to configure all the additional fun-to-debug email DNS records: 

—- If it’s at all relevant, the real world problem sparking this question is we have an MS SQL Server 2014 with 4 cores that run on average 60% capacity during the day with regular spikes to 100% and we’re having an internal debate as to whether it’s smart to increase the guest to 6 or 8 cores to alleviate some performance problems we’re experiencing. The host has (I don’t know the model, only the specs) dual socket Intel hexcore at 2.6GHz w/ hyper-threading - so 24 logical cores per host. 

EDIT 3: My proposal from edit #2 above did not work. I had to wipe the drive and re- the device because ZFS would not allow me to replace the device with itself. After resilvering was complete I rebooted and is and device is . It's worth noting that does appear in as well as , so it is being loaded correctly. I can verify this by running: 

I’ve heard that if you have a guest with N virtual cores under ESXi, the hypervisor waits for N total logical processors on the host to become available simultaneously before delegating work from the guest to the hardware. Therefore, the advice is that you should very carefully consider increasing the guest by X cores unless you truly need the processing cycles because you’ll incur an increase in that wait proportionate to X, and you want to ensure your gain from adding vcpus outweighs the cost of this increased delay. In the extreme example, suppose ESXi hosts hA and hB have identical hardware and configurations, and each has a single guest (gA and gB, respectively) and the guests are identical other than the fact that gA has 1 virtual cpu and gB has 2. If you put the same (non-parallelizable) workload on both hosts, gA “should” compete the task “faster.”