I actually called Microsoft support on this for my brothers laptop and they have a hotfix as well. It was just a patch we downloaded from the internet on their support site. The phone tech walked me through it once, and I did it once by myself. Unfortunately, I only bookmarked it on my brother's machine. 

I would go Color to Alpha too if you want to specify the color with rgb to match something else in the image. 

Under the 'Select' dropdown menu on the top of the page click 'None'. Or Shift Ctrl A is the shortcut. This is just to deselect without another action. 

I agree that RAID isn't the best for most users. I don't trust Time Machine either, though I use it for incremental backups. I prefer to back up my Mac partition with Time Machine and periodically make a clone with SuperDuper. I've had issues with Time Machine losing data on restores. 

A couple of things might work: Pull guides from the edges of the workspace, they're blue lines. Make guides to show you where the polyline is. Temporarily move the polyline layer to the top, make it somewhat transparent. Then scale the layer beneath it from the menu with pixels incrementally. 

I'd definitely put the green bars, and I liked the punch holes on that fan paper ( a drop shadow would set that off nicely). For authenticity, match the blue or faded black of the ink. I was working at a place last year that used dot matrix printers (they're still in common use on the line in restaurants) and they would print two colors, red and black with a monospace, kind of blocky font. Although the same font was used, capitalization and the two colors were used to set off varying properties of the document. On invoices, the letterhead is usually printed directly on the paper with a logo and regular fonts (in black), but the actual inventory is printed in triplicate with a indigo ink (use a little blur to make it look right and remember the second or third copy is gray). Invoices generally had multiple copies with one page striped, then customer and merchant copies in pink and yellow. and Also consider that since dot matrix printers actually use ink, they run out of ink, and if you're doing multiple docs, maybe fade a couple of the 'older ones'. You can find some interesting images just by googling invoice + (the year you want to reproduce). Try it! Intriguing. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ (Check out the eccentricity of the fonts on this one, and the Invoice number in red on the upper right: very typical) Here is an image with code, but it doesn't specify paper. $URL$ You know you can use Photoshop brushes with Gimp, and some stains or smudges might be nice if you're doing the grunge thing $URL$ 

I got two hard disks, one of 40gb and another one with 1tb. The 40gb has windows 7 installed on it, taking all the space of this hdd, and in the 1tb disk i got few logic and extended partitions; in this order: 1) Windows 8 2) Microsoft Server 2012 3) Empty storage partition 4) Ubuntu 12.04 precise pangolin And some empty extended partitions with non partitioned space as well. However, i put the Solaris 11 Automated install on my DVD, restarted my pc, and booted from this Solaris DVD, then it started to read parameters of my pc, and suddendly started to download the packages. No partitions screen, no way to know what was actually going on (i thought it will show me or AT LEAST select en empty partition or empty space on my second hdd (1tb one)). Anyway, it started to download packages, and for any reason i stopped the process (it was just starting to download) and after that rebooted my machine. As i told before, the first 40gb hdd had windows7 fully installed on it, then i cannot access my windows 7 installation anymore, i can just access the ubuntu one, and what's more amusing i can'tr even see this hdd from system devices in Ubuntu, as i saw on windows 8 rescue system, seems like it's gpt partition right now. I don't know or i don't think it erased and formatted everything in such a short time. This automated install just looks for the first disk and erase everything? Being used or not? I don't think so... I need urgent help with this. I think that maaaybe it just overran the MBR or something like that. Already tried with repair installation from windows 7 dvd but no luck. Could somebody shed some light upon this? I hope i've explained myself. Thanks in advance. 

I'm trying to have a RDP client on Windows Server 2012 But still no success, I don't understand why something that easy is so cumbersome on winserver 2012 I just need to install the feature to connect myself to another win server 2012 which is on aws You know, that software that executes a little window where you put address and password then connect to remote host? How can I achieve this on winserver 2012? I've read somewhere that it isn't available on this microsft platform, I can't believe that... Any ideas? Thanks in Advance! 

I purchased a DELL Laptop model Inspiron 14z 5423 And i'm presenting an issue with the Windows 7 installation it comes with. It keeps freezing, i mean if i Power on the device, it loads just fine, then comes Windows 7 login screen, after that i login normally, then after 5 to 10 minutes independently of what i'm doing it just freezes the screen, and i can't make it work again, only option is to reboot the machine, and after that, the same vicious circle. What could be the issue in these circumstances? Some BIOS not set up correctly? Video drivers? Could someone give some advice to solve this? Thanks in advance