Fundamentally, loss of signal and/or increase in noise. If your SNR is always low and has always been low, it may simply be near the distance limit. Then again, it could be that it's always run over a lousy chunk of cable or bad splice. A few years back I had two ADSL circuits to campus, which took different routes - one significantly longer. Both cost the same, but the shorter one always ran faster in practice. When I got better options I shut them both down. 

Without knowing what, exactly, has been done by "outside vendor" I'm going to guess that each "company" has a separate VLAN (virtual LAN.) That is the most common way to isolate entities that should not have the ability to snoop on each other's network traffic that share infrastructure. If you have the password to access the switches you should be able to see if that is the case by examining the switch setup and mapping the port destination to any defined VLANs on the switch ports. If so, you should be able to make access to any VLAN from any port. Keep your most ethical self in control when doing this. Hmm - actually, if you have "dumb hubs" on the second floor, you may need to upgrade those to a "smart switch" for proper VLAN handling. Or, if there is adequate cabling in the patch between first and second, and switch ports on the first, you just patch on the second floor, using switch ports on the first floor. To know what your options are, you really need to know (or describe) what you actually have, cable-wise. If you have a VLAN-capable switch on the second floor, one wire can carry 4 VLANs between floors and then the switch can deliver them to the proper wall jacks. OK. If you only have two cables (which for some reason are both connected from down to up on the "main company - building owner" network, and if you get a smart/managed/vlan capable switch for upstairs (probably only need one, really, at least for the scale of the problem so far) then you will need to set up VLANs on a downstairs switch for the building owner and each client. You'd plug each client into an "untagged" port on the downstairs switch assigned to their VLAN; on (at least one of) the lines running between down and up you have a port on a downstairs switch that is assigned to all 4 VLANS, tagged (which is how one wire carries 4 networks) and that connects to a port on the upstairs switch which also has all 4 of those VLANs, tagged. Then on the upstairs switch you break out the 3 "customer" VLANs to untagged ports which you patch to their assigned wall ports, and the company VLAN to the other ports (or to only the actual ports in use, as a better "best practice" which does require remembering that you need to reconfigure the switch when/if you move cables around.) With smart/managed switches, the two lines from downstairs to upstairs can be configured as a LACP so that data can move twice as fast over the pair of cables. 

If your router or switch has SNMP functions, it's useful to simply monitor traffic on the interfaces with a simple SNMP reporting tool running on your computer - then you will see the traffic that is going on. If you have a 5Mb connection and it's flowing at 5Mb, you might well have a hard time getting more than 0.3 in edgewise to speedtest - but you'd know that 5Mb was flowing somewhere, so it's not an ISP problem. If nothing is moving and you can only get 0.3Mb to speedtest, then you might have an ISP problem. If your switch(es) do SNMP, then you'd also know where (on your network) it's flowing to. SNMP capable switches allow tracking the culprit (or legitimate user, if the company is doing things that eat bandwidth...) down to the port level without needing to do detailed analysis - if ports map directly to computers, you can then choose whether you want to talk to the person, or do detailed analysis from that point before talking to them. There are many complex and/or expensive SNMP reporting tools, but for a small office simple and free ones may be adequate, at least to get started. 

It's all obsolete, in the current era. Which means whatever you are reading is obsolete. Anything less than 1000Mb/s is ancient history. Fortunately for folks with antique equipment still running, myself included, most 1000 Mb/s ports will autonegotiate down to whatever the obsolete equipment is running at. The point of autonegotiating is being able to speak to an obsolete device at a speed it can handle, without having to specifically configure a port to talk that slowly. 

DHCP is "implemented" as normal, whether or not the DHCP server is in the device the computer is directly connected to - a discover is sent, an offer is received, a request is sent, an acknowledgement is received. So long as it's all one network (at layer 2) no particular setup is required to manage that - it's supposed to work, and generally does. Many of mine pass through 3 switches to and from the DHCP server. If it's not all one network, you get into needing "helpers" to get DHCP requests from a network without DHCP servers to a server that lives elsewhere and hands out the addresses for that other network. This is more complicated. Setting it up in the switches first requires switches that have the capability, and then it requires a fanatical dedication to documentation and management - if every switch is a DHCP server, you have a potential mess, and in most cases it becomes an actual mess. It's much, much less confusing to have a single DHCP server where you managed all the reservations and pools for non-reserved machines. This usually IS the router/firewall in small networks, but it does not NEED to be - it can be a completely different machine, so long as it's on the network. 

Unifi are wireless Access Points (only) Mesh is an inaccurate term for how they work, by the way(unless you put non-factory firmware on them). They CAN be configured in a "single-leaf" wireless uplink mode, but should not be (it cuts throughput by at least half .vs. wiring them all.) You seem to be saying they are all wired into a switch, so there is no "mesh" going on, simply provision of the SSID over multiple devices. A common problem (not clear from the level of detail in your question) is people deploying them with WAY too much power and overloading the input stages of the client devices (especially if they get the UAP-LR because it's advertised to have "more range") - in MANY cases, performance is improved by turning power down. The link does not work unless the radio can also hear the client device, and UAP-LRs have a VERY small field of appropriate application. 

This will depend greatly on what "secured" is supposed to mean in this situation - RADIUS allowing you to use WPA2-enterprise is fairly decent, just slapping WPA2-personal on APs is generally kinda-low security, but may be adequate for some uses. Radius saves you from (and identifies) "password sharers." My initial response was (and mostly remains) - Very tediously for the stuff without central control. Having moved from no central control to a system with central command/control (UniFi), the difference is night and day, even on a relatively small campus. Multi-branded APs generally works fine so long as the SSIDs, security settings, and password or authentication method are exactly the same across any set that you want to work as a set, and you don't care about missing statistics, etc. from those that are not part of the centralized system. 

Two different philosophies are commonly applied (IME), leading to two different approaches (well, 3 if we include the not-very-philosophical "random mess".) The higher-paranoia approach is to restrict all VLANs only to the places they are needed, and to place all unused ports into a VLAN that goes nowhere. If you later add VoIP phones to a particular switch that does not have them now, you will add the VoIP VLAN to that trunk link at the time, not before. The lower paranoia approach would be to put all VLANs on all trunks, and only apply them to device ports as needed. This is often (but need not be) combined with leaving open ports on some useful network rather than a "dead" VLAN so that plugging things in does not require a management change every time. Which is appropriate depends on the use of the network(s), the exposure of switches to unauthorized persons, and to some extent which philosophy is dominant in your local/company culture. 

Dirt, mostly. Trees are also bad, being essentially vertical accumulations of water, and water being bad news for 2.4 and 5 GHz (and several licensed bands as well) propagation. One aspect not mentioned so far is the Fresnel Zone, a roughly cigar-shaped area between antennas which means that you can have "line of sight" between two antennas and still get a lousy connection (or even no connection) due to excessive intrusion into that zone of radio-dense objects (commonly trees, dirt, and the more-or-less-equivalent to piles of trees and dirt things we call buildings.) Towers allow the elevation of radios to the point where an adequate amount of the Fresnel Zone is clear. 

Yup, just plug the "LAN" ports of the injector bricks together, leaving the "POE" ports connected to the respective equipment. Should work fine, it does on my network. 

Due to the way that fiber lasers work, common digital encoding on fiber is <20% is a 0 and >80% is a 1 so the beam is never "off" it just varies between low and high power. Turning the laser OFF is much more of an event than varying its power level, so this method is faster. The transmitted data is put through various encodings before going on the fiber which ensure things like an equal number of 1's and 0's and never having a very long string of 1s or 0s in a row - the received data is decoded from that format before being passed on, and for Ethernet anyway the actual "raw" data speed in the line is greater than the "nominal" speed to permit carrying decoded data at the nominal speed. At 10 GB, the encoding schemes have been altered to make them less of a burden - rather than using 10 raw bits to carry 8 data bits as is done at 1 gigabit, 66 raw bits carry 64 data bits.