Honestly... You're getting more into page-layout than document creation. Word does a better job of doing document creation than it does with page layout. Publisher is much better at page-layouts. You can accomplish the same task in Word... but it appears slightly different than you would expect. Under the "Page Layout" tab... go to Margins -> Custom Margins (at the bottom of the list), and then near the middle of the dialog, there should be a "Multiple Pages:" drop-down-box with "2 Pages per sheet". Also set the page-layout to Landscape. On the screen while editing, it would appear like you're working on 1 skinny page... and as you add content... what appears to be the 2nd page will actually be printed on the second half on the 1st printed-page. 

What you're looking for is called a section break. In short... here's what you do. Before on the page that starts your new numbering, you want to insert a section break. (Under Page Layout ribon click on Breaks drop-down menu & click on Next Page) Once the break is inserted... you can then go to your header or footer & add your page numbering. While in the header/footer Design menu, you will have an option under "Page Number" to "Format Page Numbers..." From there you can pick a different "style" (roman vs latin... and many others) as well as providing a new "Start at" number. so the first three pages can be roman number i, ii, iii... and the next section can use latin-numbering starting at 1... and continuing on. Because it's a section break... you can also add additional stuff before the break and the numbering will auto-adjust down-the-line. 

Your notification will reappear eventually, but it may not be today, or tomorrow, or the next day... I came across this announcement today when I viewed this old Windows 8 forum post, and I dare say it is showing in various other places: 

You shouldn't have to do anything in the BIOS etc—it should just work. And your board does support up to 8GB of RAM. Try removing and reseating the memory, to make sure it has connected properly. If that doesn't help, and the memory is of the correct type, one of the 4GB modules you have installed may be defective. Try with one module at a time, to establish whether they both work. 

I find this no longer works in Windows 10. Even after logging off and even restarting, Windows 10 goes right on adding the word "shortcut". Furthermore, it changes back from to other values such as . This registry tweak has always worked before, going right back to Windows 95 & 98, through Windows Vista & 7 and Windows 8. I'm on the latest version of Windows 10 that's successfully come to my machines (April tech preview, build 10074). I've searched but can find nothing about this. How can we stop Windows 10 from adding the word "shortcut"? 

Is this running in a virtual-machine? It is not uncommon to have "RTC" (realtime clock) issues in a virtual machine, especially when the correct virtual-tools package isn't installed. It is also possible that the server is polling time from a bad source. More information about the server would be helpful. 

Only one reboot is technically required. The problem is that group-policies will apply on their own over-time.... or on a reboot (your first), and then the second reboot is when you actually see the auto-logon. Two solutions could be: 1) Apply the policy... then wait until the group-policy would naturally apply (could be anywhere from a few minutes and up.) and then reboot. 2) Apply the policy then force the policy to apply using , and then reboot. 

There are a few reasons why you can't execute files... and all of them are bad. It may be possible to fix the problem, but it is likely that you will continue to have problems. Typically this is caused by a virus (that modified the registry has quite possibly changed additional things or is still active.) or a hard drive that has become corrupted. (you will likely see more corruption as time goes on) If you're set on trying to duct-tape the problem... start by looking in the registry and browse to the following registry key: 

Uninstall MEGAsync Uninstall the Visual C++ 2010 runtime (all versions, in case you have an old version present that's confusing the MEGAsync setup) Reinstall MEGAsync 

There's actually a big clue in the message: "Hardware reserved". If checking/unchecking the "Maximum memory" checkbox under Windows isn't helping, the culprit may be the default BIOS settings, which can reserve excessive RAM for graphics hardware. In my case, Windows reported that 1.1G of my installed 8G RAM was "hardware reserved": 

The entries in the left pane can be a bit confusing, particularly as they can appear to represent a fixed hierarchy, when they don't really do that. All they are is shortcuts. A list of arbitrary shortcuts with simple names, to take you to commonly used places. Some replies to specific points which may help: 

Despite all the key combinations tried, there actually is a key combination that does get a response and gives the dialog focus: ALT+TAB. Although the dialog has the appearance of being the only window open—so that the problem doesn't present itself as a need to switch between windows—there is in fact another window open. The Welcome screen may just look like a background, but the ALT+TAB key sequence works to "switch windows" back to the dialog:    

Try setting the string prior to connecting. Setting the "xterm-color" type lets bash (and others) know that your tty supports color. You can also do some fun things with the environment variables... but that is another discussion for another day. 

You can always partition a thumb drive into multiple partitions... but I'm a bit confused as to what you mean by "hidden". Honestly... the only ways to implement a truly hidden partition are very difficult and dangerous to the data at best. With true-crypt, you can make an encrypted volume that exists as a file on the "un-encrypted" drive... which you can mount to a different drive-letter... and there are ways to partition the thumb-drive and leave 1/2 of it marked as free-space... which actually contains an encrypted volume. The risk is... because it appears as free-space it might accidentally get overwritten in a dozen different ways. I've even seen a 3rd option done... where you have a true-crypt volume file on the un-encrypted space... and in the true-crypt volume.. you have it split into two partitions where the 1st is treated normally... and the 2nd is marked as free-space... which contains a 2nd true-crypted volume... which would need to be mounted as a 3rd drive. $URL$ If you're going to that level of trying to hide your data... you're doing something wrong. (either technically, or morally. I hope it's not the latter) 

No, you're supposed to run its setup program. Windows will take care of where the files live. You just run its setup to install it, then run it from Start. 

So my question is: how can we script a change of mouse pointer speed that actually changes mouse behaviour immediately? 

Those for the nine-and-a-half years from January 2006 are available for download from Microsoft as monthly Security Releases ISO image files. These run from that date till the last one in July 2016, after support for Windows Server 2003 ended the previous year. These monthly files provide a way to apply the updates without connecting the machine in question to the internet, and in sizeable chunks too, meaning far less manual effort—at least for that nine-and-a-half year period. Other updates can be downloaded individually from the Microsoft Update Catalog for applying offline. 

The 403 is because you haven't configured the site to allow directory browsing. You can do so easily enough: 

Is there a registry setting etc for the default window startup location? I'm not talking about individual programs which can save such a setting, but the global default. Windows often opens windows in the top left corner, but with many apps employing a "hover at top of screen" mechanism for making a toolbar swing into view, it becomes desireable for this default window startup location NOT to be jammed up against the top of the screen, so that the new window can be moused over without some other toolbar popping down and obscuring it. I'm using mainly Windows 8.1 and Windows 7, but probably if there is a setting it's common to other versions too? 

The advantage is subtle at best. Basically it means that your web browser can process very large integer values more efficiently and without conversion. There's quite a bit of number-crunching that goes on behind the scenes of the web browser. Unfortunately, to the average user... it means nothing. Any improvements you see will be minimal at best. 

You cannot remove/disable/or inhibit the functionality of links in NTFS. It's a feature of the base file-system. I am a bit curious as to why you're wanting to disable them. Symbolic & Hard links both have been used for decades in varying forms. As far as exploitability goes... if a virus/hacker/??? can get access to the file system with sufficient privileges to create/delete them... you have far more things to worry about. 

Sorry, nope, no fix. It's "by-design". If the delete dialog cannot determine the physical location of the file, the permanent delete dialog is shown instead. With a symlink, the physical location of the file is "indeterminate" at best... so no-chance for the move-to-recycle bin option. 

is an environment variable that defaults to your current appdata folder. In Windows, this can be roaming, local, or localnew. Almost everything uses ... so in most cases it's probably better just to use the variable instead of the parent directory of . 

This Microsoft post, as well as confirming that MSVCP100.dll is part of Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package which you've tried reinstalling, also says you should run this command to check/fix your system files: 

However, what I found was that while this command did clear the static IP address I'd set, it left the option selected to use a static IP address: 

only my Backup setting was saved: on checking the stored configuration, the Data/Log settings had reverted to Program Files: 

Further to @Adam Millerchip's answer, we can reduce the password-change effort to what it was prior to joining a domain, when we always had to run control userpasswords2 again every time to store the new password. Now we're on a domain, we can just run a batch file instead that runs control userpasswords2 and also restores our domain and username registry settings: AfterPwdChange.bat 

(run as administrator). If it still doesn't work after applying the recommended actions, right-click the disk in File Explorer and from Properties, Tools press the Check button under Error checking. After a restart this will check your disk and you can then retry the other things once you know your disk is in good shape. 

Note: Acronis True Image for Crucial is just an example, and it only works if it detects a Crucial SSD, so don't waste time on it if you don't have one. I just happened to get a Crucial drive, so I used Acronis, but I'm sure there must be others, free or otherwise. For example, over a decade ago I used Norton Ghost for all my disk imaging, and that could reboot to another environment to clone the current partition in just the same way. 

Your question really isn't clear here... and let me try to explain why: Security is a subjective question. It is best asked as: Secure from what? If you're merely trying to obscure your IP address, there are hundreds of ways to accomplish that... and wrapping your connection in layers of VPNs will not make you any more anonymous than if you simply used 1 proxy service. If you're trying to keep potential hackers from snagging credit-card numbers that may be sent in clear-text (or slightly-obscured)... it's just easier to rely on existing technologies that are already in-place like SSL. If you're trying to keep traffic between two individuals very secure from people in the middle, you need to use a point-to-point encrypted tunnel (of some sort) that does not rely on 3rd parties. Keep in mind that the quality of security is also a subjective matter. Given enough computing power and enough time, almost any encryption used in the world today can be broken. At some-point, you just have to say enough is enough and call it safe. If you're asking us "how-to-evade-law-enforcement"... you're in the wrong place. 

There are several pieces to this puzzle that must work-together to make copy/paste work. First, the "terminal" must have a way to exchange data from one session to another... Most of the time, this is handled by a GUI manager of some sort... (XORG/Windows/etc...) which implements some sort of "clipboard" functionality. Second, the "terminal" application itself must be able to interact with whatever clipboard interface exists... to keep all "terminals" in sync... Third, the shell (bash/ash/dash/csh/etc...) needs to be able to access the terminal's clipboard APIs... Forth, VIM needs to make use of the clipboard APIs provided by the shell it's running in. Any one of those failures can mean that your application can't make use of any sort of clipboard between terminals. All that being said... there are some "standardized" API calls for the clipboard... so assuming each bit has done it's job properly, it should work. Now... there are some handy tricks to simply get the job done without worrying about all the clipboard crap... which is probably what you want to begin with... VIM will let you copy text and export it to a file and then on another console import the text from that file, and here's how: First: make sure you're not in "edit" mode... (press escape key) and move the cursor to the place you want to start copying and press the key. Go to the end of what you want to select... and press . If you want to paste a copy in the same document at this point... just move the cursor to wherever and press ... but since we're copying to another terminal, we'll need to open a new file someplace else to paste into... like this: 

For "of the simplest type", may we read "it cost next to nothing"? :) You're assuming the problem was caused by the Mac crashing while it was mounted. But probably cause and effect are the other way round: if a computer's writing to a USB device which gets removed prematurely, problems can occur on the device, but in this case it's a media player so your Mac was only reading data from the device. It sounds to me as though your USB stick suffered a hardware failure, crashing the Mac. And it won't work now because, well, it's suffered a hardware failure. Time to get another perhaps. 

When I'm editing several files, Visual Studio makes it obvious which file currently has focus by highlighting its tab in bright yellow. Often, after working in another Visual Studio pane such as Team Explorer, I want to close one of the files I'm editing, but now Visual Studio has lost the yellow highlight and the "active" tab is now virtually the same colour as all the others. The net effect is that I'm looking at a main pane full of text that's clearly the file I want to close, but it's not obvious which tab I need to use to close it, because the tabs above it are now barely distinguishable from one another. The extra click required to bring back the yellow highlight is just an annoyance, but all the little annoyances add up and I'd like to get rid of it if there's a way. On researching this I found that Productivity Power Tools lets you customize tab colours quite a lot, but it doesn't include anything to fix this particular issue. This is VS2013 btw; I dare say it's improved in later versions but we need 2013 at the moment to support some of the codebase so this question is for a way that works with VS2013. 

In short, no... you don't need IP addresses to connect machines in the same network. There are several examples of protocols like this like: IPX or Banyan protocols. The problem with using hardware-addresses is best described like this: Imagine for a moment that computers are people in a room... (everyone is glued to 1 spot and can't move around) If Bob wants to talk to Suzy... he shouts out "Hey Suzy"... and Suzy responds... and a conversation ensues. Great right? Sure... on a small scale this works quite well and is actually used regularly in some networking protocols between two (or a few) devices. (Many high I/O protocols use non protocols because they're much "simpler" and finely tuned for the task.) The Internet (as we know it today) is not just 2... or a few people talking directly to each other. The internet is literally BILLIONS of devices. If they were all placed into the same "room" (network-segment)... Imagine what would happen if Bob wanted to talk to Suzy. Bob would yell "Hey Suzy!"... and Bob's voice would be lost in the crowd. (Building a room to fit BILLIONS of people is equally ridiculous.) For this reason, networks are into "smaller rooms" which allow people who are in the same (room) to talk directly to each others, but people outside the room you need some sort of to pass messages from one room to the next room. But the vast number of rooms means you need some sort of addressing scheme so the various in the middle know how to get a message from Bob to Suzy. With the IP protocol, they assign a to each "room", and the routers are told how to pass a message from one room to the next. For example, if Bob's address is 1.1.1.1, and Suzy's address 2.2.2.2, and Bob's is 1.1.1.0/24 (meaning the first 3 bytes of his address must match for it to be in his room), Bob needs to pass his message to the so it can be passed along to Suzy's "room*. Bob knows his is 1.1.1.2, so he passes the message to the , and the router passes it along to other routers in the middle until the message is passed to Suzy's router at 2.2.2.1, which hands the message directly to Suzy... and Suzy can send the reply back to Bob in the same way. Computers in the same actually do communicate directly with each other using the MAC address. It actually starts by sending out an request (ARP = Address Resolution Protocol) which means it shouts out "Who has the address X.X.X.X?"... and whoever has that address replies and from that point on, they continue to talk to each other directly. (I can continue this analogy and explain a great deal more of how the Internet works if you're really interested.)