Client (192.168.1.3) sends TCP-SYN to your external IP, Port 80 (123.123.123.1:80) Router sees port forwarding rule and forwards the packet to the server (192.168.1.2:80) without changing the source IP (192.168.1.3) Client waits for a SYN-ACK from the external IP Server send his answer back to the client directly, because it's on the same subnet. It does not send the packet to the router, which would reverse the NAT. Client recieves a SYN-ACK from 192.168.1.2 instead of 123.123.123.1. And discards it. Client still waits for a SYN-ACK from 123.123.123.1 and times out. 

From my experience, cheap hardware does cost a lot, too. I'm sure you do not need the high end model of a professional server to serve a few websites. But you don't want to miss 

"Have you tried turning it off an on again?" :) No. Really. This seems to be a network messup where your client doesn't see the domain controllers. Maybe there's something wrong with DNS or IP addressing, or anything else preventing proper communication between Client and DCs. 

You could use the good old well known Squid proxy for this. Here is just one howto with config examples. Google will give you a lot more in no-time. HTH, PEra 

If you used a real firewall, it would be able look at the command inside the FTP control channel (TCP/21) and open the data port accordingly. Therefor, you only need to open TCP/21 and the firewall takes care of the rest. Of course, the usual SOHO routers (and software FWs) won't do this for you. In this case you should stick with a defined port range (~3 ports per concurrent user) like recommended. 

However, I see some disadvantages for using Windows here. Am I right that you want do use a 2k8 license just to filter and forward some traffic? Sounds expencive. And somewhat insecure. There are pre-packaged Linux/BSD distros with nice web-GUIs if you have no Unix experience. Have a look at pfSense, it's a really nice firewall. And here is an article, which describes Snort integration. You can test it using VMWare, for example. HTH, PEra 

You could configure a mirror (or "span") port on the switch. Almost every managed switch has such a feature. If it's your own home network and there are only unmanaged switches, get a hub and connect the "victim",the router and your sniffing pc to it. The "bad" way to get the traffic in a switched environment is called "ARP spoofing". Google for if you need a tool to help you out. Well... If it's not your own network and/or the person using the "victim" computer doesn't know and agree with what you're doing, just don't do it. 

It would not be that wise to have the users and passwords inside the .htaccess file (or the apache-config itself) for min. two main reasons. See, the .htaccess lies inside a directory of your website. The password file should never lie there, because everyone could then download it and has a complete list of valid usernames. And can brute force their passwords offline. Another reason could be that you could have a large number of users/groups for a BASIC auth protected website. You do not want to mix server config and authentication database. 

should work on any normal filesystem. What do you see with ? Is the symlink created? If it is, check if apache is allowed to open the directory and read the config files. To do so, enter and look for "x" and "r" bits in the permissions (beginning of line). Update after comment: The permissions are okay AFAIK. You should focus on apache then. Are there any errors in the logs? What does debug say? 

You could set up a free monitoring solution like Incinga or Nagios. There are tons of plugins for every check you can think of. Or you could just write your own script which reports a status ("good", "bad", whatever...). A good commercial thingy would be WhatsUp Gold. It includes performance measurement tools, too. If you want some real gold, take a look at Jazzey. It's a real high class, really expencive, end-to-end monitoring tool. It simulates real users working with your (web-) apps. Spent lots of ours with at work. 

From 10.5 on, OS X comes with a new, application-oriented firewall instead of . But ipfw is still installed. If you have trouble with its syntax, check out graphical frontends like or . HTH, PEra 

This should not be a problem. I did this with several other vendors (Foundry, HP, Extreme, ...) and Cisco should not be a problem, too. Don't rely 100% on the syntax, tho. 

If it's just another service, set up a new server inside a DMZ (ask your networking guy), configure it with a public IP or let your firewall do some NAT. Name that new server whatever your service will be like, e.g. access.company.com and create a A-Record for it. 

You could boot with a live cd like GRML and use the boot option to check the RAM for errors. If you boot the normal grml OS (debian based linux), there are lots of tools for diag (like cpu burn-in). 

I agree with Matt Simmons' answer. Please let me add that HyperThreading (the Pentium4-thingy) itself has never done any good to my systems. No performance gain, but sometimes even trouble. You're better off disabling it completely. 

It could possibly be any filtering device on the way between your VM and the FTP server. Most firewalls (including home routers) have a state table where idle TCP sessions are reset after certain timeout. You could change the VMs NIC to bridged mode (instead of NAT) to sort out the host OS. Then, make sure your FTP client sends NOOP commands periodically to keep the command channel open. There are firewalls around which close the data connection, if they see that the command session is closed. Regardless if the data connection is idle or carrying traffic... HTH, PEra 

Workaround- created seperate counter log. It might be because there are too many counters in that counter log... 

Work around- used dynamic sql to capture all logins, stored it into a temporary table. Scripted out for the ones needed and then ran executesql. 

If the temp db drive is unavailable (others system database files are available), how can I trick SQL server 2000 to create new temp db on C: and start up? When trying to start up using from command prompt, it just displays the following and thats it: 

fixed- since it was restored daily. i have excluded it from re-index, dbcc checkdb, update stats etc maintenance plans. even though they ran during seperate schedule, excluding the database fixed the issue. 

Are there any general rules/tips which we can use to run Sql Server Reporting Services 2005 reports faster? I have been tuning the Tsql behind the reports but does there exist any SSRS specific performance tuning? regards Manjot 

I am a database administrator and I need to move SQL databases from one server to another for enterprise project management, Project Server 2007 installed on WSS 3.0 (both at patch level SP2 + Aug09 CU). I know how to move databases but I don't know how to re-point the application to the new server. Can anyone please help me? - Thanks! 

In SQL 2005 and above, If i dont want to give someone sys admin rights how can the person see Activity monitor and sql server logs? what is the minimum level of rights to see Activity monitor and sql server logs in SQL server? any help? regards Manjot 

For multiple instances of SQL server 2000 servers on the same server, how can I set up to use static ports? I tried to search it on the Internet and i came across This article. If I use this article, how will assign port number for seperate instances? Thanks in advance. 

The above process creates linked server with integrated security for authorisation. Work around-change the security on linked server to use service account. 

Execute LogShipping_Destination_Schema & LogShipping_Destination_Logic in master on destinations server Run: exec bts_ConfigureBizTalkLogShipping @nvcDescription = '', @nvcMgmtDatabaseName = '', @nvcMgmtServerName = '', @SourceServerName = null, -- null indicates that this destination server restores all databases @fLinkServers = 1 -- 1 automatically links the server to the management database 

solved. One of my friends answered: Start the Server Network Utility. To do this, do one of the following: Click Start, point to Programs, point to Microsoft SQL Server, and then click Server Network Utility. In the Instance(s) on this server list, select your instance of SQL Server. In the Default port box, type a static port number, and then click OK. Note The static port that you specify must differ from the dynamic port that your instance of SQL Server is currently listening on. Restart the instance of SQL Server. From: This article 

We have a central management server on which we collect Baselines for remote servers. Baseline includes perfmon counters like logical disk, SQL server buffer manager, physical disk, network interface etc. We save it to a SQL server database. The problem is, it is not collecting data for logical disk for 1 server. To check that there is no problem with counters on this server, I created a server specific baseline to collect only the logical disk counters for this server remotely. It collected counter data just fine. this server specific baseline is running under same credentials as the full baseline. Server specifications: Windows server 2003 R2 standard (64 bit) edition Management Server specifications: Windows server 2003 enterprise edition Any help why it is not working for the full baseline? I have dropped and added the counters manually but it doesn't help. Thanks in advance 

SQl services are runing under different domain accounts. So, I asked the domain admin to create SPNs for the servers, SQL service accounts for beoth source and destination using name and FQDN. enabled computer name and service accounts for delegation. When I run the following: 

I created an SSIS package to transfer logins from one server to another in SQL 2005 SSIS project using BIDS. I want to transfer all packages but skip 3. So I changed the maximum number of error count to 3. But it didn't help. can anyone please help me in achieving this? Thanks in advance 

I can backup and restore databases on Microsoft SQL server Analysis Service 2008 using GUI as from Backup SSAS I want to schedule backup and restore it to another server every night. so what i did is : I scripted out the backup and restore process from the GUI. Created a new SQL server agent job in database engine and added a "Run SSAS query" step. Copied the scripts to this step. But it fails. the scripts that the GUI copied out look like: 

On a SQL server, why do we need a weekly update stats job (with full scan) when we have AUTO_UPDATE_STATISTICS=ON for all databases? Doesn't this option update statistics all the time? Regards 

I have migrated some DTS packages to SSIS 2005 using "Migration" wizard. When I tried to run it, it fails saying you need a higher version of SSIS even though the destination SSIS server is on 9.0.4211 level. then I digged in the package using business intelligence studio and saw that one of the package subtasks is "Transform data task" (the dts version) and the package fails to run that. The storage location for this dts task is set to "Embedded in Task". I didn't touch it. why didn't it convert this task to an SSIS data flow task? any help please? Thansk in advance 

To find out edition of SSRS, go to: C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\90\Setup Bootstrap\Log on the server which has SSRS Open the Summary.txt file. Look for the log file for Product : Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services. In the SSRS log file, search for keyword "edition"