Without seeing the greater context in which this code appears such as how the components are constructed, and not having kept up with Spring since 1999, I can only address the immediate code. The above could be converted to use two maps: one for the text fields and another for the strings. In the code that builds the components, create the two maps and store them in instance fields of the same class. 

General Many of the variable names lack meaning and are inconsistent. I cover some of them specifically below, but for example is not a good choice for a list of suggestions--even though you intend to print them. Instead, clearly identifies what the list holds. Learn to use JavaDoc for documenting public classes and methods. Not only is it nicer to read than one-liners, developing this habit early will demonstrate your goal to become a professional engineer (if that's the case). 

Importing Classes I used to prefer to import each class separately (no ) so you can see at a glance what the class uses. However, as I focus more on creating smaller classes it's not such a big deal. I still do it, but I'm not anal about it like I used to be. Pick a style and stick to it. 

Obviously, the three x cells at the end of that row must contain 7, 8 and 9 in some order. This allows you to eliminate them from the y and z mini-groups. I haven't thought through yet how you'd make use of this, but it may enable more complex rules. 

I don't know Go so I'll limit this to a more general review. If I recommend non-standard things, please point them out so someone else doesn't pick up bad habits. :) Unless the error result is always named in Go, I would prefer in the cases where you are searching for a node by key to clarify its meaning. A comment in says missing nodes will be created automatically ("make new node if doesn't have one"), but the code doesn't match. The problem is that there's no payload for the new node(s). The graph will let you add nodes to which you cannot attach edges. Move the key checking to a new method, and call it from and . 

This is definitely a lot easier to read, especially as the length increases. It also allows proper JSDoc comments (with some minor finagling), calling overridden methods in the superclass, chaining constructors, etc. 

You didn't specify whether or not nested comments are allowed, but your code trims only the shorter comment. For example, case 4 would yield with nesting but without. It would be helpful to include some unit tests to demonstrate the intent. Your solution is pretty straight-forward with only one real complication. I would remove the incrementer and instead perform an extra increment where you're setting to . It's minor, but it removes unnecessary state. To help with the readability, introduce a variable for the length of the input since it's used in so many places. Another solution would be to use to seek ahead to the next open/close. The algorithm will still be \$O(n)\$, but the fewer number of calls could add up with very, very long strings. This is more to show an alternate method than to improve on yours. 

You're finding all solutions, but because the code overwrites the for every solution found you only see the last one. Try this: 

The fact that you must be able to swap in a new set of maps at any time--even if only once every three months--requires a design change. Here are the requirements as I understand them: 

This issue is so critical to the correctness of the solution that I'll leave it to stand on its own and leave any other review issues for others. 

Since this set doesn't support elements, you can drop the "and this set does not support null elements" at the end. 

You can simplify your intersection methods by employing and . It would be nice to make these instance methods of the rectangle classes at the same time and introduce some static factory methods. 

I'd be curious to see if introducing a private static class to combine the result of and could simplify . Finally, why bother with the null checks when null values will immediately throw NPE anyway? It would make sense if the check included a message denoting the problem, but all you get here is a line number--no more than without them. Not that this isn't a good habit in general. 

As for the algorithm, you're on the right track by deleting friends as you read them, but you can take it a step further by deleting more than one when possible. For example, when you delete the previous friend, it may allow you to delete the next previous friend as well. The benefit of this is that you're always deleting from the end of the list which minimizes the amount of memory being copied for each friend deleted. And as I stated in my comment, preallocate the full length of the list to avoid more memory copies. The array starts with ten elements by default (last time I checked), and doubles in size every time it runs out of space. That requires ten copies to handle ten thousand friends. It's not a large number, but the amount of memory being copied adds up quick. 

While it doesn't address the nested try-catch blocks, it does move them out of the original loop which may improve that method's readability. At least now this new method does one logical thing: mark the job completed or roll it back. That your original code s when a unit of work cannot be rolled back makes me suspect that the method should actually throw an exception in this case. 

This introduces a common trick to simplify high-level logic: moving special-case checks into extracted methods. Writing to accept for also allows to handle the empty list and single-row corner cases. With that out of the way we can focus on combining the current best paths (accumulator) with the next row to form the new best paths. Rewriting your original code to build a new row is sufficient: 

It seems strange to me for to be a specific way of getting all items, and should always return all items. Introduce a helper for clarity. 

This is common when using similarly-named variables, but it's difficult to avoid doing so in rendering code. Clarity You can improve the performance of the random choice between -1, 0, and 1--and in my opinion make it more obvious--using a simpler equation without the array: 

Your solution is short and sweet. Hopefully my answer will be too since rolfl covered most of what I saw. :)