I'd recommend that you check appdeploy.com for informations on how to silently deploy your software. Most of the time you'll find here informations on how to extract an MSI from a .exe installer if it is supported by the installer. For instance, with the msn example : $URL$ 

I read recently some news about how MS will have to hand over data to the US government if they asked for it. ( $URL$ or $URL$ ) Some of our clients could be concerned by that. MS does have european datacenters, but i was wondering if anyone knew if these datacenter could be targeted too ? 

I think that Forefront client security (server equivalent of MS security essentials) should be the easiest thing to implement on server OS $URL$ 

I'll have to deploy virtual machines on demo laptops, which will use Vmware player, but I've got some security concerns, as some data stored in the virtual machines are a bit sensitive. Is there a way to prevent the copy of these virtual machines ? Are the virtual hard drives encrypted, and if not is there a way to encrypt them ? In short, is there a way to lock down everything so that nobody could copy and or use these VMs in another computer ? EDIT : Truecrypt to encrypt the VM could be a solution, but if the password used by truecrypt is leaked, then it becomes useless. Associating the VM with a computer so that it can only run on a specifica hardware should do the trick, but I haven't found a solution that allows me to do that... 

The problem is that the system temp directory is required when machine installs updates first thing after a restart. My RAM disk, however, starts through , which is probably read later in the process. My question is this - is there a way to redirect the system temp directory to a RAM disk in a way that this redirection is realized before windows installs the updates after restart? Use case: I have installed a RAM disk that gets initialized on startup. Everything works fine, including rebooting the server (it is possible to save the RAM disk image, making it survive the reboot). However, when I reboot the server as a result of Windows Update the update is undone, because Windows is unable to access the TEMP directory - the RAM disk has not been loaded yet. Truth to be told the problem is only with the system TEMP directory and there is not much harm not to redirect the system TEMP and leave it as is. Still, if I could load the RAM disk before the Windows Update resumes then I could place the system TEMP on the RAM disk as well. My question - is it possible? 

Suppose I have a product which I want to install on a non SSD drive, if exists. Otherwise, I want it to go on the drive C. For example, the following configuration is supposed to install the Sql Server 2016 in the default location: 

Someone told me one day : "Dress for the job level you're trying to reach", and it must be one of the best advice I've ever heard in my professional life. 

You can try to set the proxy of IE to a fake proxy, and add the website you want your users to access in the exception list of that proxy ? that way, no data connection at all, except for the website you choose. Cost : zero ! 

I'm looking for a way to prevent people to send emails to anyone but a whitelist of trusted contacts / trusted domains. Currently we're using an outlook macro to achieve that, but i'm wondering if there's a way to do this within Exchange ? WE're urrently using Exchange 2003, but are planning on upgrading to exchange 2010. Maybe this feature already exists in Exchange 2010 ? 

In my case, we install updates at 4am, in order to avoid impact on any users, even those working a bit late. If you have a good monitoring system that warns you if a problem occurs, you should be able to fix it early in the morning, before even going to work. 

I'd like to deploy Office 2010 on Citrix servers, but i can't enable form scripting support. With outlook 2007, it was solved by adding Outlvbs.dll in the office directory, and running But it seems this does not work anymore with Outlook 2010, I get the following error : I don't get much help from microsoft support site, as there isn't a lot of informations on office 2010 yet. Have anyone succeded in installing and using outlook 2010 with form scripting in a citrix environment ? 

EDIT 6 I followed all the instructions. At the end and after a few days I noticed I have it! Switched to advanced analytics and here I have it: 

There is, however, a problem - the certificate is left on the target machine. I would like to avoid it. One idea could be instead of copying the certificate to share the Azure File Storage container having the PFX file and install it from the share, but then the share remains permanently mounted on the target machine - essentially the same problem. I am looking for a way to ensure the certificate is present without leaving a trace. I thought I could add a resource with Ensure = "Absent" and make it depend on the PfxImport resource, but then how will it work? Will it constantly download the certificate, ensure it is installed (it would be) and then delete it again? Doing this every 30 minutes? Is this the right approach? 

It should be added to the Sql Server as a login account in sysadmin role. Visual Studio extensions that I want every developer to have must be installed from a session started by the owner account (not the SYSTEM account used to apply the DSC configurations) The TFS workspaces must be associated with the owner account. 

Part of configuration is to run all the Windows Updates. I am trying to figure out how to express it with Powershell DSC. Seems like the best is to ensure that the windows updates are scheduled regularly. I found xWindowsUpdateAgent DSC resource, but it does not allow to specify the schedule itself, only to ensure that the updates are scheduled. So, is it possible to ensure a concrete windows update schedule? 

I may be mistaken, but you can try to add a -i parameter, so that the process you're trying to launch will run in an interactive mode in the specified target computer. Edit : I just saw what you're trying to acheive, and I don't think you can acheive that with psexec, which is used to execute process on remote computers. Here, you may what to try an application presentation solution, like Xenapp or Windows 2008 remote desktop services 

You sometimes may have to host your own mail systems because you need to be able to know exactly where you data is, geographically speaking. It happens a lot in the banking world. 

You can try to change the wireless connexion metric, to an higher metric than your wired connection. This way, your wireless connection default route will always be used if you're connected to the wireless network. 

I've got an SQL database on an azure VM (non domain) that i'd like to backup to our internal DPM 2012 server. I've installed the DPM agent on the Azure VM, setup DCOM to use only the ports 5000 to 5025 on both the VM and the DPM server, created the 135, 5000-5025, 5718 5719 endpoints on azure and on the VM's firewall. When trying to add this agent to the DPM server, I end up with an error, "Unable to contact the protection Agent on server .cloudapp.net" I know there is some sort of connection between them, as using a wrong password gives me an Invalid Credentials error. The error seems to be DCOM related : When trying to connect to the Azure VM from the DPM server using VBEMTest, i get an Error "0x800706ba The RPC server is unavailable", but access is deneid when using wrong credentials ) What am i missing ? Has someone been able to achieve this kind of setup ? Thanks for your help ! 

I used ssh-host-config both on vm and srv to configure the ssh to run as a windows service. Besides that I did nothing else. Can anyone help me troubleshoot this issue? Thank you very much. EDIT The virtual machine software is VMWare Workstation 7.1.4. I think the problem is in its settings, but I have no idea where exactly. The Network Adapter is set to Bridged. EDIT2 All the machines are located in the company lab, I think all of them are on the same segment, but I may be wrong. Below is the output for each machine (skipping the linux server). I have deleted the Tunnel adapters to keep the output minimal. If anyone thinks they matter, do tell so and I will post them as well. In addition ping output is given to show that DNS is correct. Something else, may be relevant, may be not. Doing to srv works OK, whereas to vm failes with Access Denied. srv: 

Server Manager → Manage → Server Manager Properties "Do not Start manager automatically at logon" Server Manager → Local Server → IE Enhanced Security Configuration → Off 

It is unclear to me how Azure Automation DSC can allow for such coupling. Sometimes just the account name is needed (to configure Sql Server), but sometimes the resource must be run as the owner, i.e. the owner credentials are needed. Unless there is a way for a DSC resource to run as the workstation owner without knowing owner's credentials. In short, it seems to me that Azure Automation DSC cannot be used to configure developer machines. And I am not even talking about shortage of out of the box and tested DSC resources like: 

We can't really do our job correctly without scripting, and sometime these scripts can be difficult to create / debug with only text editors I'm currently using UltraEdit or Notepad++ as text editors and scripting platform (syntax highlighting is almost mandatory), but I was wondering if there was a more advanced scripting environment, an IDE of some sort, for VBscript and Powershell mostly ? (like always, free is better, but if the tool is really good I'm not against paying for it) 

You can have most of this using the PFsense firewall distribution. It allows you to easily setup a captive portal, manage a proxy for the users, block them with firewall rules. All is configurable through an easy to use web interface, and if you want more advanced features, you can always go deeper with command line. And all the hardware you'll need is a cheap computer with a wireless network card :D 

To avoid the google redirection, just use $URL$ , it will direct you to the google.com website even if you're located in another country. 

In the "Citrix connection configuration tool", you can prevent the client printers to be mounted by editing the ica connection --> clients settings --> uncheck "Connect client printers at logon". There's the same configuration option in the rdp connection, you can configure it from the same tool. The connection configuration tool can be accessed from the citrix server, in the administration tool menu, or by using the ICA toolbar.