You need to set the PSH flag to tell the receiver to process the data even though the buffer is not full. Here is a good explanation. 

On this switch, you define profiles that control who can access the management interface. This is different than most IOS based switches. From the management console, Click 

The concern is that generating the traps will affect the performance of the router, especially on that day when things go wrong and you have a lot of changes. Some problem will cause instability, which will lead to a flurry of traps, which will tax the router, leading to even more instability,... An alternative is to dedicate a router to monitoring the BGP table. This router does not route traffic. It participates in BGP, but does not advertise any prefixes. This router can send you traps -- if it runs into problems, your network is not affected. 

You are not using your ASA's in a failover configuration, so you should not configure them that way. Use the command 

You say that inter-VLAN routing is done by the firewall, but you have IP routing enabled on the switch. Turn it off. 

You can create a low priority flow entry that matches all frames. The default behavior for unknown frames is to drop them. 

If I understand your question (or the question behind the question), you want to know if you can use your two ISPs to create a backup link between your two locations in case your primary link fails. The answer is Yes with a couple of caveats, but BGP is probably not what you're looking for. One idea is to create a tunnel (you will probably want to encrypt it with IPsec) between the external interfaces of your border routers. You can run your IGP in the tunnel and adjust your metrics so that tunnel is less preferred than any of your internal links. Should your internal link fail, the tunnel will be used to connect your locations. You should consider what kind of bandwidth will be required if the tunnel is used, and apply QoS as needed so that you don't oversubscribe the tunnel capacity. Also consider if the tunnel MTU might cause problems and adjust accordingly. 

Whenever someone asks what is the most secure way to do something, I always wonder if that's what they would really want if they consider the costs of doing so. Implementing security controls have a cost associated with them -- the additional time and effort it takes to implement, maintain and troubleshoot the security features, along with the effects they have on productivity, reliability, and availability. It's not always clear that the benefits of the added security are worth the costs of implementing them. For example, consider the mac-address sticky command. It sounds good at first blush, but what happens when the phone or PC is moved? Someone has to change the config on the switch. Depending on the size of the organization, that can take a while. I've seen office moves that were not coordinated with the network team. As a result, dozens of people couldn't do their work until the switch was reconfigured. The helpdesk took a lot of angry phone calls that day. Do you think the office moving team took the blame? The maximum mac address value is usually set too low (IMO). The purpose of the command is to prevent address table overflows. But many administrators set it very low (3, for example) to limit what can be plugged into a port. Again, if someone moves a computer, or replaces a phone, they're locked out and the helpdesk has to intervene. If you set the maximum to something like 10, you still protect the switch from overflows, but you also eliminate most of the headaches and user complaints. I'm not saying one shouldn't use these commands. But rather, you should consider if the protection you're getting is worth the cost to your users. 

Yes, assuming your ISP has assigned BOTH a range of addresses for your hosts AND a separate subnet for the link between you and the ISP. 

If no route matches the destination address, drop the packet. If only one route matches the address, forward the packet out the defined interface. If more than one route exists, use the route with the longest subnet mask (the most specific route). If more than one route has the most specific route, choose the one with the lowest administrative distance. If more than one route has the same administrative distance, choose the one with the lowest metric. If more than one has the lowest metric, alternate among all routes (either per-packet or per-flow, depending on the configuration). 

The answer to your question is mostly opinion, which is frowned upon on this forum. But I'm willing to bet real money that the majority of people here will agree with me. I suppose that for some people, spending lots of time with Excel spreadsheets, keeping track of multiple spreadsheet versions, and the intellectual challenge of troubleshooting duplicate address problems are all enjoyable, but that's really no way to manage a network. I won't speculate on why DHCP was never implemented (cough fear *cough), but DHCP will help you manage your network more effectively by freeing you up from doing a lot of mundane tasks that can and should be automated. I should point out that not everything will use DHCP. Your routers, switches, firewalls, some servers, will need static addresses. But the majority of devices, especially end user PCs, wireless devices, printers, etc. should use DHCP. What you really need is an IP address management application, or IPAM. There are commercial products as well as freeware that manage both DHCP scopes and static addresses. You don't have to give up your nifty addressing scheme either. You can create DHCP "scopes" for each of your locations and device types. Certain devices that need stable addresses (like printers) can use DHCP reservations, so you can manage their addresses from a single application. That saves a lot of "running around" time. In addition, you can use dynamic DNS, that syncs DHCP and DNS so that when an address is leased, a DNS entry is automatically created. Your Xirrus AP will always have the same name no matter where it is. 

There is no theoretical limit, but memory/CPU may impose practical limits on particular hardware. Depending on the topology, increasing the number of devices increases the convergence time. When that becomes a problem depends on your particular situation. In my experience, loops tend to be small. I don't recall ever seeing a looped configuration larger than 3 or 4 devices. 

A channel usually refers to a physical medium, while data link is usually a logical connection. Again, the terms can be fuzzy, and there are no doubt exceptions to what I just said, although I can't think of any at the moment. A LAN can be thought of a set of devices that share a medium (e.g. Ethernet) with these two characteristics: a. Every device can directly address every other device via the media, creating a data link connection. In Ethernet, every device on a LAN can send traffic directly to every other device using the MAC address. b. Devices can send data to all devices on the medium at once (i.e., broadcast). 

In your diagram, you have one PC. GLBP will not help you there. If you have many PCs, GLBP might help assuming: 

I have to disagree with TAC on this one. Running those low speeds is really not a good idea. I wouldn't run anything lower than 12 unless you absolutely need 11b. If you have interference, the only way you're going to find it is with some sort of sniffer or spectrum analyzer. Maybe you can borrow one? Try turning off your WLAN and see what other wifi signals you pick up. You might look for microwave ovens in the vicinity. You can also try changing channels to see if that helps (choose from 1, 6 or 11). 

If the image name includes the letters "K9", as in then yes. Otherwise, no. You can also type a command like 

Clients will use the ARP cache entry as long as it's valid. How long that is depends on the OS. On a Cisco router, it's 4 hours. On a Windows PC, it's a random value (really!) between 15 and 45 seconds. Most Linux systems use 60 seconds. 

Rajan, It depends what you mean by "communicate." The switch will forward packets based on MAC address only. In that sense they will communicate. But there are many other things that have to happen for the two devices to transfer data. The sender needs to know the MAC address of sys2. And when the receiver (sys2) replies, it also must know the MAC address of sys1. The devices will use the ARP protocol to learn MAC addresses. ARP will only work if each device knows which interface to use. That in turn requires that there is information in the device route table for that subnet. Finally, the destination IP address has to match the IP of the receiver. Otherwise the receiver will discard the packet. 

And you can control what ports, source addresses, protocols, etc can access the management interface. 

To answer your specific question, each VAN interface has a /21 mask. Think of the VLAN interface as just another host address on each subnet. By the way, assuming a Cisco router, you don't need to have multiple interfaces on your DHCP server. You can have just one and configure 

The reason you see the MAC address on V105 is that the internal switch sends CDP, LLDP, STP, etc on the native VLAN, using that MAC address. 

The next hop 0.0.0.0 means that the route is originated from this router - i.e., this is the router that is sourcing this route. The metric (or multi exit discriminator) is set to 0 by default. That information probably doesn't help you troubleshoot your problem. If you include a diagram of your network, we will be better able to help you. 

While everything @RonMaupin says is true, in your particular case, with only five routers, there is not a lot to be gained by adding another routing protocol. Since you don't have a full mesh, you will have to configure your core routers as route reflectors. The only real downside is that BGP converges more slowly than OSPF, but there are ways to minimize that deficiency. 

You're really asking how MPLS works. The answer to that is too long for this forum. But briefly, OSPF is a poor choice for routing customer networks because 

Yes, it's possible. Your wireless clients can communicate with each other (although on some consumer devices, you have to explicitly allow this). 

I don't know of any switches that are 802.1x supplicants, so Option A is probably out. So between Options B and C, the primary difference is cost. I imagine rewiring your office is both expensive and disruptive, vs the cost and the hassle of managing all those new switches. The real question you should be asking is, what threat am I defending against, and what is the real risk? Are you really worried that someone might sneak into your building (I have no idea what kind of office you're in or where it is) and plug in an unknown device? Why would they do that? The question should not be "is it possible," but "is it a significant risk worth the cost of rewiring or buying new switches?" As an example, in the office I'm currently working (a quasi-government agency), we do not have 802.1x. In theory, anyone can plug a device into the network. But in order to do so, you first have to get by the guards at the entrance, and you would need a badge with a card key. If you are an employee, you would know that there is a policy prohibiting unauthorized devices on the network. Clearly, if you really, really wanted to, you could bypass all these controls. But management has decided that these controls are sufficient, given the risk to the network. Frankly, if you really wanted something on our network, it would be easier to pwn a machine and steal it remotely. That way, you could take your time and avoid the risk of detection and arrest. My point is: just because you have a shiny new 802.1x system for wifi, it doesn't mean you need it for your wired network. Or if you do decide to use it, tamper-proof boxes, etc, may not be necessary. You (and management) need to weigh the risk against the cost of new switches, wiring, maintenance and reliability (what happens if your RADIUS server crashes? Does that block all network access?). Maybe you work in a high-security environment where all these controls are necessary. But I'm guessing you have a solution looking for a problem. Best to weigh the risk vs cost. That analysis will allow you to justify the costs (monetary and operational) to management. 

The HP can be either a bridge or AP, not both. I recommend that you do this: just replace the HP with the Netgear, since it can handle more clients than the HP. If your wifi signal is good enough to cover the entire ares, that might be the simplest option. You also might consider using both: put the Netgear in the same location as the HP. Connect the Netgear wired port to the HP. Use the DHCP server on the HP. Set the HP and Netgear to be on different channels (eg, 1 and 11). You can either use the same SSID or differnt ones, but the idea is that half your clients will connect to the HP and half to the Netgear. 

I'm planning to run BGP with my upstream provider and advertise our global IPv6 prefixes. I'd like to use only link-local addresses between the ISP's router and my border router to make the border router "invisible" to the Internet and thereby reduce the attack surface. Has anyone else tried this? Are there pitfalls I should be aware of? 

You're confusing layer 2 and layer 3 (A common mistake). The layer 2 technology -- serial port, ethernet, ethernet trunk, DSL, satellite, or piece of string -- does not affect layer 3. You can have IP use any of those layer 2 media. It's still IP routing. In the past, it was easy to define LAN and WAN by their technologies: serial ports were always "WAN." Now that Ethernet is so ubiquitous, the distinctions are harder to identify which is which, because Ethernet is everywhere. 

Based on your description and images, I suspect radio interference. You replaced all your hardware and have the same problem. You moved the hardware to your "lab," and the problem went away. That strongly implicates your environment as the issue. You don't say where you did the measurement sample in relation to your receivers, but a 12-15 db SNR isn't very good. Also, I would move your frequency to channel 1,6 or 11. If you're listening on channel 3, you are getting interference from both channel 1 and 6 that your receiver doesn't deal with very well. It may seem counter-intuitive, but your radio can deal with interference better if it's on the same channel. 

If only phones are connected to the switch, you should be fine. If you also have PCs connected in tandem (switch<->phone<->PC), then you need to worry about QoS capabilities on the switch. 

Yes, assuming the switches are connected together and VLAN 10 is forwarding on the connected ports. Both ports have to be configured the same, so that VLAN 10 is either tagged on both or untagged (native) on both. 

Configuring the router with a BVI interface seems to make the most sense. You can't use a port channel, and BDI is for IOS-XE routers. Make the router the root of the spanning tree. 

Because it doesn't guarantee a loop-free path. Comparing the reported distance against the feasibility distance does. Jeremy Stretch has a good write-up on it. 

One way is create a new VLAN with 10.0.0.3 as the SVI (VLAN) interface. Eash ASA (in a failover pair) gets connected to an access port on that VLAN. 

Very briefly, SONET/SDH is a high bandwidth optical WAN technology. T-carrier is an electrical (digital) WAN technology. SONET/SDH is (was) typically used for backbone and inter-provider circuits. T-carrier is (was) used for lower bandwidth leased lines for subscribers. SONET bandwidth typically starts at around 150Mb and goes up to 10Gb. T-carrier typically starts at 1.5 Mb and tops out at around 45Mb. Both technologies were developed for voice telephony, but were adapted for data transmission. Bandwidth guarantees depend on the carrier. They may or may not make guarantees depending on the level of service you buy. Both technologies are on their way out, being rapidly replaced by long range Ethernet