Note that, in addition to fixing the syntax in general, I have moved the column assignment to the top, so that the result of could be re-used in the expression for . You can keep your order of assignments, of course. Note, however, that in the last assignment 

Yours appears to be a "greatest N per group" problem. What you can do is get the maximum seats per engine results: 

Those columns are not needed in the output, they only serve as steps of the solution. In order to avoid returning them, use the query as a derived table, so that only the columns you want can be pulled from it: 

The former way seems cleaner, the latter, however, is more flexible, as it will be easier to expand when we want to add a filter on the number of rented books per member. You would just need to add a HAVING clause: 

This is much more efficient then combining the tables first and then filtering and aggregating the combined set, even though the code would look simpler that way. This method can also benefit from an index on in each table, while probably no index would help if you decided to combine whole tables first. 

Updating the list is implemented in the form of additional computed columns without explicit aliases, namely these: 

A table is much more flexible in that you are not tied to just one syntactic structure. Although you could still use the temporary table in an IN predicate, as in your example: 

Note that rather than "fixing" your table like this, it would be better to normalise it by creating an actual reference table with columns and that you would then join back to your data table whenever you need to retrieve . Consequently, the column in the original table would no longer be needed. 

I have to justify the answer and give an estimate of query execution cost in all three cases. To my mind it was 

The fact that I can't explain it in relational calculus let me think that I've done a mistake. Edit with the new tables I read all the links you provided and therfore add some comments and changes on my tables, can you tell me if I'm right on my assumptions? 

R is decomposed in & & Is it without loss of information? I would have said yes as far as with the following array 

Yet, it creates some issues when trying to ask to the database which are the clients that never ordered product number one? Indeed, I don't know how to do it in SQL as far as it seems that there is no relations between Client, Commande and Produit. It gived the following sql code: 

R is stored with heap organization with data unsorted with both respect to K and A, in pages of size Dpag=1024 bytes each. I have an array giving me the following costs for heap organizations : 

I have to create a check to know if the date in Livraison (Delivery in French) is >= Date in Commande (Order in French) 

I know this wrong, not enough accurate. Can you help me learning how to create an accurate and right trigger? The related database scheme in UML is (in French, unfortunately): 

I have several csv files on university courses that all seem linked by an ID, that you can find here, and I wondered how to put them on Elasticsearch. I know, thanks to this video and Logstash, how to insert one sole file csv file to Elasticsearch. But do you know how to insert several such as those in the provided link ? At the moment I started with a first file for a first csv file : . But it would be painful to write them all... The file is : 

That way would work as expected. Note that if a particular hour has no data at all, AVG would return NULL, and so would the corresponding SUM. If, however, you want your SUMs to default to zero, then you will need to combine the method suggested in this answer with adding IFNULL or COALESCE to your SUM expressions, like this: 

If the columns you are talking about could be viewed as describing a single logical entity, you could (and perhaps should) move them all to a (new) separate table and establish a primary key/foreign key relationship between the two tables. For instance, if your table was like this: 

I was able to find an answer with some more searching in the archive. $URL$ So the SQL I created from that post which works in my case is as follows... 

For the second option, using an ID instead of a name to specify the user would mean a simpler left join: 

If this is a table of back-to-back ranges only, your case can be treated as a classic "gaps and islands" problem, where you just need to isolate islands of consecutive ranges and then "condense" them by taking the minimum and the maximum per island. There is an established method of solving this using two ROW_NUMBER calls: 

Therefore, the lock could be acquired either by Tx 1 or by Tx 2, because one is updating rows and the other is deleting rows. Moreover, as pointed out by ypercubeᵀᴹ in a comment, your update statements are not restricted by a filter, thus each running on the entire table. When run in parallel with a delete, even a filtered one, such an update can naturally be expected to cause collisions acquiring exclusive locks. 

and you want the requested data from every table that has a match – then you need to use only full joins. This is one way how you could implement the request: 

I am learning dynamic tree-structure organizations and how to design databases. Consider a DBMS with the following characteristics : 

I'm studying non-key organizations to know when are they better to use than classical key ones. With the following SQL queries, which of them takes less benefices from the multi-attribute index on R with A as a first attribute and B as the second attribute ? 

I think that the answer in relational algebra is : ΠConstructor(Product ⋈ Laptop ⋈ Printer) Yet I don't know how to write it in SQL, would it be : 

Therefore there is a difference, something we store in the nodes in a B tree is stored in the leaves in a B+ tree. Thus, to my mind it was (m-1)h (m being the order and h being the height) as far as each nodes contains at most (m-1) keys to another node. But this is not linked with the number of bytes. Yet I found in the book mentioned above the following table : 

Update May, 3rd Without knowing how to use a file to implement csv files to Elasticsearch, I fell back to Elastic blog and tried to do a shell script for a first file before trying to generalize the approach : importCSVFiles : 

According to my teacher the number of deleted records for an attribute operation is Nrec(R)/Lr = 100000/100 = 100. But I don't understand why. Therfore the cost of the operation would be : Npage+100. 

I would say that those which aren't equality searches are those that may have less benefices from the multi-attribute index, but I'm not sure why... Here is an an example of a multi-attribute index (which remains as a link for I don't know which reason ... : 

I found a similar question on SO which states that the error indicates that zookeeper quorum is not running - most probable cause can be some inconsistency with your zookeeper.quorum setting in but it didn't helped my file looks like :