diff assumes that the second file may have been created by not only editing lines but by inserting and deleting lines. If you just want to know which lines differ without considering inserted or deleted lines, you can use a simpler approach. 

If your SSH client supports zmodem (e.g. Kitty), you can use . Otherwise you can play with , , SSH logging and . 

Messing around with ownership and permissions of system directories is usually inadvisable - unless you are an operating system developer who understands all the ramifications. 

There are ways out, but I wouldn't describe them as easy. If you can write programs or scripts, you can probably automate fetching the pages and concatenating the results. You can probably use or for part of this but if I was doing this I'd use a scripting language (e.g. Perl, but probably almost any scripting language would do the job). 

Don't discard potentially useful messages Whenever a cron job fails mysteriously, my first action is usually to redirect STDOUT and STDERR into files in /tmp so I can see any error messages and other potentially helpful output. So the cron entry would be 

then you can visit If you want to retrieve the same site, you can configure your webserver to also listen on port 80 (as well as 8888) and configure virtual hosting in which case the webserver can use the HTTP headers passed by the client () to identify the required site. How you do this depends on the webserver you use. For Apache see the documentation for Listen and Virtual Hosts 

Note that the problem you experience is nothing to do with . In my example I avoided unnecessary use of cat, partly to make this clear, partly out of tradition. 

When you press any key, a scancode is sent to the motherboard. When you release that key, a different scancode is sent. 

So far as I know, On a standard install of Windows 7, there is no log kept of such actions by supplied utilities like Windows Explorer or the command prompt. There is an auditing facility that you can turn on. Apply or Modify Auditing Policy Settings for a Local File or Folder. This might help in future, or it might just fill your hard disk with audit logs you'll never read. 

Usually, it's the second part that people wish to avoid. The main way to avoid both parts is to run web-based applications - but that would be rather self-defeating in this case. The idea of a portable app is that you install it on a removable storage device such as a USB flash memory drive. It can then be run on any number of PCs with performing any additional installation for each PC. If this does not meet your needs, I suggest you revise your question to clarify your specific objectives. 

You could the results to see what is causing the difference - my guess is a timestamp. Wordprocessor documents can contain functions and fields that are evaluated when "published". 

For CentOS I find it best to use Yum - which, by default, should install the correct version from the CentOS repositories. If you installed the wrong version using I would also use the command to uninstall it if possible (then try using Yum to install the correct version - if available in centOS repositories). 

You could re-install XP and applications from clean media (e.g. CD) then restore data from backup. You could remove your HDD, place it in a USB enclosure, take it to a friend's PC which does have AV installed and get your friend to use their AV to clean your HDD. Personally I find it easier to just use AV. There are plenty of inexpensive and free products. 

wmf2eps is old and unsupported but might get your data into a form that can more easily be converted to PDF. At worst maybe you can use Windows XP mode 

In the former case, I'd use port labelled (2) "WAN/LAN1" and choose the offboard DSL modem configuration option. In the latter case I'd use port labelled (1) "T-DSL" (n.b. I don't read German very well) 

Whoever produced it set it's background to be transparent. This is a feature of several image file formats. sometimes it is referred to as an alpha channel (which provides degrees of transparency) some tools/formats simply allow for one color to be selected and marked as fully transparent. GIF supports index transparency, which is the latter type. 

When a browser is displaying text in a font specified by the HTML or by the browser, it may come across characters which are not present in that font. This is particularly the case where the encoding of the web-page is UTF-8, for example, as no single font includes the million or so characters defined by Unicode. In previous decades, browsers used to display a stand-in character such as an empty square or diamond instead of that character. For some time now, most browsers, when they need to display a character not in the current font, will now effectively search through all the fonts installed in the computer until they find a font that contains the character needed. This means that browsers are much less likely to display characters as empty squares. More recent versions of Microsoft applications such as Notepad now do something similar. These applications now use system libraries that do this searching for characters which are unavailable in the current font. 

OCR You can use OCR software to convert images of text into true text - this will allow you to render the text at any level of quality you desire. OCR software is often included with image scanners and graphics suites. Arabic OCR software is available. Even if the target platform doesn't support Arabic, you can OCR on a platform that does and then rasterise the text to a higher quality image for deployment. Use "SHARPEN" If you want to apply transformations such as sharpening or edge detection you can use tools such as ImageMagick 

to do in-place editing of all lines in any number of files. But test it on a copy of the file first! 

This information should be available in either the appropriate Wikipedia articles or in the relevant technical standards (which are probably referred to in those articles) In general the signalling rate or frequency is not the same as the data rate (due to encoding, the use of multiple transmission channels (e.g. pairs) and other factors) but dividing by ten will give you a (very) rough idea. For example, 1000Base-T Ethernet has a data rate of 10^9 bits/second, so you could assume a signalling frequency that is 100 MHz. For the actual rate, use Google (which would lead you to relevant articles) 

Putty and WinSCP use the same underlying SSH2 protocol, the degree of security is mostly determined by this protocol. The two programs aren't really comparable, WinSCP is a Secure Copy (SCP) client, Putty comes with an equivalent called pscp, but pscp is a command-line client not a GUI client. Putty is perhaps mainly used for remote shell access - entering commands (like the one you mention). There's probably no reason why you can't use both Putty and WinSCP. You may even be able to share private keys between both applications. I don't know of any current major security issue with Putty, or with WinSCP. 

(tested on Linux after cutting and pasting your exact data) If you are willing and able to install and use vim, grep should be no problem. FINDSTR You can also do this with the native 

Non Hot-Plug, not designed for removal and replacement whilst the system is still running. Business servers (other than entry-level SME servers) generally are specified with Hot-Plug drives to reduce server down-time. 

Linux supports FAT-32 and FAT-16. It's support for UFS seems less than universal (or perhaps UFS varies somewhat between other operating systems implementations). I believe Linux also supports HFS plus but you must disable journalling and there may be other problems. Therefore I would use FAT-32 

If you want to be able to go to another computer and type or point a web-browser at $URL$ you should find your local DNS server (if any) and add the entry there to the DNS configuration files. If you don't have a local DNS server then you need to add the entry to every computers file. On the Ubuntu server you can add the domain to /etc/resolv.conf but there's probably a handy GUI configuration tool for doing this. 

I have two PCs both with Firefox Quantum 58.0.1 (64-bit). One of them has the bookmarks toolbar and new-tab widget in the expected places, below the address bar, and to the immediate right of the rightmost tab. The other is like this 

The DNS records are normally served by a DNS server belonging to the company that sold you the domain. The NS records for your domain should point to their DNS nameservers. If your domain is example.com and the domain company's nameservers are at 198.51.100.1 and 198.51.100.2, your domain company will have set up these records (at the top-level nameservers) 

Update As MSalters commented, Designers of filesystems like NTFS, EXT4 etc go to considerable lengths to optimise their performance. Though of course they also place a high value on reliability and resilience which mean making trade-offs that affect performance. Opinion: As with so many things it is therefore often counter-productive for end-users to try to second guess the decisions made by operating system developers. For most of us it may be best to configure systems the way we believe OS designers expect most people to do. In other words set things up in the simplest and most straightforward way, accept most of the defaults suggested by the operating system installer. Only if your use-case is very unusual and performance critical might it be worthwhile tuning the installation manually. For example, if I were asked to build a commercial cluster of dedicated Oracle DBMS servers, rather than worry about raw vs cooked filesystems I'd probably just use Oracle's Linux distro and expect it to do the right thing. If serious money was involved I would pay an Oracle consultant to make sure the right configuration options were selected. For the average desktop PC this should be completely unnecessary. 

Those are text editors, not all text editors are optimized for searching in large text files. It isn't their main job. They might perform a lot of parsing (e.g. for syntax detection and highlighting) and other work that isn't relevant to your task. It is often the case that small specialized tools can outperform more general purpose tools. 

socat can handle serial-ports. Normally it is used with network interfaces and can relay data, but it does handle serial TTY devices too. The examples in the above link don't include serial-serial relaying but from those examples you can probably work out the command parameters that ought to accomplish that. 

EDIT2: Actually NTLMV2 doesnt require the authenticating server to know the password - according to this Miicrosoft article. 

Before the Temperature for Core 0 was shown as about the same as for the other cores, the Distance to TJ Max is unaffected by this configuration change - so that demonstrates to my satisfaction that Distance to Tjmax is the value Real Temp gets from the CPU and Temperature is it's guess based on whatever TjMax is configured to. So If the CPU thinks DTS is 35 C there is no problem with CPU overheating. 

There is noting in the SSH protocol design or specification that prevents this. It is an implementation-specific restriction in the SSH daemon (or service) The usual program on Linux (etc) platforms was written to read a single configuration file that applies to all users of that instance of the program. I believe it would be possible to write an SSH daemon that looks for a supplementary configuration file in a user's home directory (for example). However this has not been done (insufficient demand probably) 

I would give each use their own separate home directory. Use permissions to lock down settings for some applications and use hardlinks to make common settings. I don't think you can get finer granularity than that. I imagine that applications that expect to be able to change (some of) their settings may fail in unexpected ways when users attempt to change something - so careful testing is needed. It might be instructive to read what JWZ did. Though his use case is more extreme. 

Microsoft's summary is similar. The TLS handshake is also similar in this regard. In step 2 there doesn't appear to be a way for the client to say "don't bother sending a server certificate, I'll use my cache". Note that there are several types of certificates, client, server and CA. Some of these are cached. 

The best way to monitor a commercial website for changes is probably to use one of the many commercial website monitoring services. This is mainly of use for checking for unauthorised changes in mainly static sites. You can easily find such services using a web-search engine.