This solve the problem. The procedure above is exactly to fix a Direct Access scenario failing, but it should works to solve this problem in every case. Keep in mind that if you are not using Direct Access you can avoid some steps like the 9. 

Your PC always consumed that RAM, but older versions of Windows didn't show. Now if you think that the hardware reserverd memory is a lot we need to which device is consuming that and how much each device. For do that open the Device Manager (), go to the view menu, Select Resources By Connection and expand the Memory subtree. There you have the ranges of RAM used by each device. Convert the two values of each device from hexadeximal to decimal, and substrac them. The difference is how much memory is a device using. This way we will know what are taking you RAM. 

I don't know the answer about Deep Freeze but this is the kind of problems that this type of software generates. The software freeze the machine in a point of the time, and everything you do is lost when the machine is restart. That is bad thing because machines stops to taking changes of important things like updates. These type of software let you make execptions to dont have this issues, but in lots of cases still fails. Some time ago Microsoft had a software like this called Steady State for Windows Xp but for Windows 7 it was disccontinuated. ¿Why? Because this kind of software is not necessary. With Windows natively you can have mandatory profiles, a type of user profile that lost all the changes when the user close his session. So my recommendation here is dont use Deep Freeze, Windows natively can do to a similar behavior with lots of advantages for free. Microsoft has a guide to do this using GPos and mandatory profiles: Creating a Steady State by Using Microsoft Technologies 

Yes you can. You can join the reference machine to the domain, and assing the accounts of your service. After you join your machine again when the image is applied everything should works because the SID of the service account is exactly the same. 

I had reset the winsock and the ipv4 and ipv6 stack and still doesnt work. I don't have any firewall but the Windows one. It was working. It had Forefront TMG, i though it was the culprit so i totally uninstalled it. ¿Wha do you think? 

You don't need to change the permissions for security. In the recent versions of Windows in the Windows Files like System32 only TrustedInstaller have modify permissions not even the System account. Since Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008, Windows Services can be at the ACLs of a folder. And the TrustedInstaller account is the Service Windows Modules Installer which is used for change files when Windows is performing an update. You do not need and should not change this default behavior. 

IIS of Windows Vista and Windows 7 dont have SMTP server available. So following the document you used you should write another SMTP as a Windows Server 2008 R2, not the localhost. SMTP server it's not available. You can instead use another SMTP for your tests like this. Check this blog post of a Microsoft MVP of IIS. 

If your board or network card dont, or you are in a enviroment with a different broadcast domain that your server in Windows Deployment Services of Windows Service you can create a Discovery boot cd, and with this CD you'll can connect to the Server that will applies your OS Images. 

You may change the in your script to if you dont want the file to be rewrited instead to append to the existing file each time. After you have the script create a Basic Task using the Windows Task Scheduler to run it every thime when the PC starts. 

What is the support of Microsoft about unsigned drivers? They support a System with them? I'm looking for a document with the Windows Policy support and what they said about not drivers. 

Configure Direct Acess using the command prompt. You can enable the IPv6 transitions technoliges (6to4 and IPHTTPS) using netsh. You also have to configure the clients and IPSec. In Windows Server 2012 you can configure Direct Access without Teredo, only with IPHTTPS, so you dont need public IPs anymore. 

These are the differences: - As you said, join the machine to the domain. - Cannot run Windows XP mode - You cannot make backups to a network. - Unlike Windows XP you wont can map network drives on Windows 7 home editions. - As @Multiverse said in this answer you can not connet to the computer by RDP. Microsoft has a comparision page of the Windows 7 Editions. Outlook can connect to the exachange without hassles. Windows 7 home edition can connect to a WSUS, but keep in mind that how it's not a domain you will ned to manually modifiy the Windows Update registry keys to make it to connect to the WSUS Server. 

This is called Nested VMS. An impressive thing is even if your host computer dont support hardware assisted virtualization can run hypervisor on a Virtual Machine. There is available this documment at the VMware Website that speaks about it and how to use it: Running Nested VMs. Particulary for casa of running EsXI you will see details at the document, but for start and run the virtual Machine you will need to change the virtual machine processor settings and enable the checkbox "Intel VT-x/EPT or AMD-V/RVI." 

If you cannot do it using System Center Configuration Manager you have to edit the Windows Image, the file, of that sequence task. You can add the File using the command avaibale in the free download Microsoft AIK. The procedure to add the language pack with is here, in this Microsoft Technet article: Add and Remove Language Packs Offline 

This is a issue with your Windows Credential Manager. Moste likely because your credential manager have wrong entry with and old password or if it was selected to be disable. Write Credential Manager at the start menu and open it. Check if it is allowing save password and if it is delete all the entries saved and try again. If it's not allowing to save password it's possible that it is setting from a domain groupo policy and your network admin should check it. Regards. 

¿Why could be this happening? I dont think is the Antivirus software neither superfecth because I enable it only to fetch the boot files. 

This is the issue: All programs works fine in the network. A Command line console, elevated with UAC, can make a ping and everything works fine. A command line, runnning as standar user, says General Failure when you make ping. We try: 

Check if the network dns suffix on that network is the same of the value storage in the registry key . If not it wont be marked as Domain. Check your DNS suffix. If the suffix is the same of the value, the computer will try to contact the domain controller using LDAP. If this is success you will have a Domain profile. To check this install the telnet client and run: Check if the port UDP 389 is open between the server and the DC. 

We have a latpop that when it is connected to the wireless network, all other laptops of the network start to have intermittent connection. Why could be this happening? The computer is not getting IP Address when is connected to the wireless network. 

It's very likely that install Windows 7 drivers on a Windows 2008 R2 wont give you any issue. As example if you buy a a Windows 7 laptop and you install Windows Server 2008 R2 on it most of your devices will work ok. Maybe wont your bluethoot device. That is due Windows 7 and Windows 2008 R2 share the same kernel code, the access to the devices is the same. The same thing happens with Windows Vista and Windows 2008 but not whit Windows Server 2003 and Windows XP. The bast majority of drivers will install out of the box, sometimes dont because the INF file of the driver dont allow it. With this trick of a Technet Blog you can install them: Installing Windows Server 2008 R2 on a notebook and getting all those required drivers. So, tipically you dont have any problem but always keep in mind that it is not suppoted by Micosoft. 

I am seeing this behavior and I find it interesting. After I close a Virtual Machine on VMWare-Workstation, even closing the VMWware-Workstation console I see lots of hard disk activiy on of the virtual machine. I have seen this in the VMDK and in the VMEM files as you can see here. 

There is a lot, depends of the thing to manage, some software have web consoles, you even can install ssh on a Windows PC to connect to it. But by default windows comes with two tools: Remote Desktop and MMC. 

But if the RDP is a valid file when windows asks the credentials it fails and continue with next process. For demo purposes I changed the logoff for a calc. 

I created this script based on yours, it do what you need: interate over the members of a group. Do what you want with the object in the loop. 

Try to have them all. Remeber to rename them exactly on all your nodes. Remeber that is not supported by Microsoft to have Teaming at NICs in Hyper-V Clusters, that could genereate failures. There is more information at Microsoft KB 968703. Read this article about network best practice for knowinf what protocols you should enable in whic NIC and about the metric. It's highy recommended to change the metric in each interface. 

Today good global load balancers that works using that technic and work pretty well. Check for example Azure Traffic Manager $URL$ 

I think you cannot remove the connect to another option. And even if you can, what happens if one user create a console a bring it in your network by a flash memory? You have to work in the permissions and rights of your servers. 

Bad news. Windows Server 2008 R2 allow you to bind the DHCP to a specfied NIC but this binding is for the DHCP Service not for a specfied scope. You will need to set up another server or VM to the other network segment or off course you can make a reservation based on the MAC for each PC but it dont think that it will very usefull. Regards.