Dug that up here at SmallNetBuilder. So, switch to WPA2 and enable WMM. That should kick your speeds back up between the N clients and the N router. 

So... you need to find the right VGA to Digital converter for your screen, and you need to find an adequate power supply for your screen inverter (so you can illuminate the screen), and you'll need to have a steady hand and a good soldering iron... and some disposable income. 

Yes, there might still be a problem with the laptop. Yes, an external faulty hard drive can cause a BSOD. The two are not mutually exclusive. All the BSOD proves is that there is still a problem. The details of the BSOD can more specifically indicate what the problem is, but the mere presence of the BSOD itself doesn't tell you what the problem is. If the laptop operates without error, without the hard drive in question, and ONLY shows the BSOD when the drive is connected, then that would indicate the issue is most probably with the drive. If you connect the drive to another computer and you get a BSOD on that machine, this would most certainly prove it out. However, if you connect other USB storage devices to the laptop and still encounter the BSOD, then you would have to point to the laptop as having the issue, as opposed to the hard drive. Of course, if connecting other USB storage devices causes a BSOD on the laptop, and the external drive also causes BSODs on other computers, then you see that both could be causing issues. In short, there isn't enough information to say exactly what the problem is. Connect the drive to another computer. Connect other storage devices to the laptop. See what happens. 

Ok. So, to be clear.... When you are sitting at the computer that is running WAMP, and you put the EXTERNAL IP address in the browser, you can view the web server. When you are sitting at a different computer on the same IP subnet (connected to the same router and/or switch) and you put the EXTERNAL IP address in the browser, you don't see the web server. When you are sitting at a different computer that is NOT on the same IP subnet (not connected to the same router and/or switch) and you put the EXTERNAL IP address in the browser, you don't see the web server. Have you forwarded port 80 in the router to the internal IP address of that computer? Does your ISP allow inbound access/traffic on port 80? How would you test this? Well, first, make sure your router doesn't have a firewall blocking inbound port 80 traffic. Make sure you properly forwarded port 80. Make sure your internal IP address is static (in the DHCP table). If you have done these things... then it might be an issue with port 80. You can test it by going into WAMP and changing the port used to... whatever... 8080. This is just for testing purposes anyway. Then, go back into the router, and everywhere you dealt with port 80, change it to 8080. Then try accessing the server. 

You aren't even sure how the RFID reader is connected to the computer, and... let's face it... there aren't many VGA INPUTS on a computer. It is not to say you are wrong that it is using a VGA cable, but that means there is some other device in the computer that has a VGA input, and that is not standard and should have documentation. If you yourself have to come at this from the ground up, the equipment you are working with should also be as new to the project as you are. Granted, others have been thrust into projects where they are expected to take over where someone left off, but that implies there was a substantial investment that needed to be protected by NOT starting with all new hardware. This doesn't apply when you are dealing with a no-name RFID reader connected by soldered cabled and loose wires that was quite possibly thrown together from what someone found in a donation bin. 

Have you already visited and discounted Driversguide.com? $URL$ Using the DriversGuide installer is annoying, but they will let you download the driver for free. You don't have to sign up with DriversGuide. Look at that list I gave you a link to. 

This is more to add to Renan's answer than anything else. He covered the fact that you can't expect Lenovo to foot the bill on this one, and did so very well. 

In short, it depends on the software you are using to take the video from the camera, the type of USB connection, the size of the image you are getting from the camera, and the capture settings WITHIN the software. So... without more specific information from you, no more specific information could be given to you. Read up. $URL$ 

... is present in the Startup section of MSConfig. You can go one step further by searching for just osuninst.exe in the registry (start-run-regedit) and removing it from any key that is involved with being run at startup. There are 4, and it might be within any of them. 

Do you intend to simply purchase the Ram and put it in yourself? If so, then you should identify where the Ram goes in your laptop, you should open that compartment, you should examine the sticker on the Ram that is currently in your laptop, you should write down what it says on that sticker, and you should use that information to purchase more Ram. Do you intend to just bring your laptop to a repair shop and allow them to install the new Ram? If so, then do that. It doesn't require any further input from you. If you REALLY want to insist on using software to identify your Ram, before you actually will be physically examining it, then use CPU-Z (CPUID) for it will not only tell you how much Ram you have and what speed it is running at, it will tell you who made the Ram, the individual product ID of each stick of Ram, what speed it is supposed to run at, which slot it is in, etc. 

It is hit or miss when you have to try to figure it out on your own. You could end up purchasing parts in anticipation of a solution, only to find that they did not solve your problem. That said, it sounds like your screen inverter is in need of replacement. You can search youtube for a video detailing how to replace the one in your specific model, which you did not share with us. Essentially, you remove the screws holding the screen bezel in place ( the plastic frame around the screen ) and you will see a small narrow printed circuit board at the bottom of the LCD panel. That is the screen inverter. 

... one with a solid back, the other with the grill-type. Why is this important and being mentioned at all? Because whatever caused the Fn key to stop working could also cause the whole laptop to stop working. Not getting it repaired as soon as possible could make the difference between replacing a keyboard, and replacing the laptop. What's cheaper. Losing a day or two of productivity, or replacing the laptop? 

From the Download page at Asus, under Utilities, there is a PowerWiz installation that appears to have this within the sys file... 

HP clearly indicates that this model can support 4gb of Ram @ 4x1gb configuration. Configurable Components. The speed and size of the Ram you indicate falls well within the parameters set by HP. I realize I am most likely telling you nothing that you did not already know. I am just being clear that you haven't done anything wrong by accident... from what information you have provided. What could be wrong? For one, you might be mistaken about the two sticks that you want to add, in that they might not actually be working. You could try replacing the existing memory with those two sticks (instead of adding them) and see if the machine boots. By Replace, I don't mean put them in the empty slots, and then remove the old ones. The black slot has to always have a Ram stick in it, so I mean actually put the two new ones in the same slots that the old ones were in. If the machine boots without beeping angrily at you, then you have confirmed the Ram is not what is making it beep. It is possible (but not probable) that when you put the new Ram in, you didn't seat one or both sticks completely. I realize you most likely checked that, which is why I say it isn't probable. I just have to mention the possibility. I can tell you that it does NOT have to do with the fact that the new Ram is pc2-5300u Ram. The U means unbuffered, and the Ram already in the unit is ALSO unbuffered. So, confirm that the new Ram is indeed good Ram. If you just bought it, that is no guarantee. 

It is important to note that a BIOS is written to recognize processors, not just read data from them and spit that data back out. Thus, it is possible to put a processor in a socket it technically fits, and have the motherboard not recognize it because the BIOS was never written to recognize it. Moreover, you will find motherboard manufacturers release BIOS updates that contain nothing more than increased processor support. I bring this up, because the last BIOS update released by HP for that system was on 7/19/2007 while that processor wasn't released until 7/13/2009... almost 2 years later. So, while there is a small possibility that the processor will work, it is almost certain that the processor will have functions not recognized by the motherboard. 

From there, browse to the files or folders you want to add in the top half of the window, select them, and click the "Add Selected" button. Of course, you can also use the Add Files or Add Folders buttons. But that will show you remaining space, as well as file details before you burn. 

You can use the more powerful DC adapter (19v @2.15A = 40 watts) for both, since the Netbook which requires less juice will only draw what it needs from the more powerful one. This of course depends on if the plug is not only the same size, but has the same positive/negative configuration. Think of this like using a Universal DC adapter which puts out a Max of 90 watts, with a device that only draws 65 watts. Same Deal. 

This needs to be defined. Sorry, but that's just how it is. Without knowing what you fiddled with and already tried, it's hard to know what to tell you that you may or may not have done. I mean, it could be something as simple as firewall settings. Silly, I know. But did you turn off the Windows firewalls on each computers? Does your AV suite come with it's own Firewall? Have you turned it off as well? Both computers have internet access, which implies that the IP settings are correct for each, as well as the quality of the ethernet cables, the network adapters, and the router/modem. One computer kind of sees the other, but that's one way. If you can't ping one computer from the other, while both are connected to the same router and getting internet access through it, then it most likely is a setting somewhere. So, start going through connection tutorials. For example, this one at HowToGeek. Sure, it applies specifically to sharing files between a Windows 7 and Windows XP computer, but all you need to do is make sure both computers are properly set according to the Windows 7 settings explained and detailed in the article. Things like... making sure both computers are in the same workgroup... making sure network discovery is on at both machines... making sure that file and printer sharing is turned on at both computers... making sure that read/write access to the Public directories is available to both machines... try turning off password protection for both machines.... things you may or may not have done already, but the point is to double and triple check that each is done. Try going into your router settings, and giving each computer a static internal IP address in the DHCP reservation table. Here's another tutorial at AddictiveTips.com covering some of the same steps, and pointing out some other important details. It deals with wireless sharing, which I'm not sure, but I think partially applies here. You say that both networks have the same name... are they both considered Public Networks? You said you had to change the workgroup name and make them both the same. Did you triple check that it is spelled the same way on both machines, including capitalization? In the end, again, you are going to have to detail what you've done here, so we can all follow along, and see if any of us can come up with something. 

Very rarely do laptop keys just stop functioning without there being a reason. Almost all of the time, there was a liquid spill of some kind, and the user refuses to acknowledge it because the spill was very small, or the user just flatly refuse to believe that a little Iced Tea could possibly cause the key in question to stop working. What they don't realize is that Laptop Keyboards are not made to be repaired. They are made to be replaced. They also don't realize how keyboards in general function and/or are constructed. They don't realize that more than half of the laptop keyboards out there have a grill-like construction... so that anything spilled on them will pass right through them and onto the more sensitive components below. Here are two laptop keyboards made for the SAME model laptop... 

I've seen two different brands of routers do this, but in both cases it was a bad DC adapter that was to blame. In both cases, you could see the router turn off, turn back on, and cycle up... only to repeat indefinitely. When the DC adapter was replaced, the problem did not return. So, when you observe the router during this process, does it actually turn off and turn back on? Or does it appear to be on the entire time, only to drop the connection once a minute? If you believe it to be a configuration issue, you could hold the reset button in for 10-15 seconds to return it to the factory settings, and see if the problem happens again.