Iv'e done some more tests and this is what ive found out, so far: a) I logged in to my pi via xming and putty as user pi. I then created a shortcut to the script, and ran it, which worked and created an image on the desktop of my pi. 

Oh dear! I didn't read the comments, the first comment suggested i chainge the type of quotation marks, and bingo it worked, Sorry! This worked: 

I seem to have got it working by placing in the start section of and commenting out see the below code: 

note 'runtime_frame_count' increments, so this should only run once. The "main" thread gathers the frames from the camera and performs the motion detection, and the "server" tries to serve the frames gathered. Could this be why I'm having the same script trying to access the port, but in different threads? edit 2 to explain exactly what i'm doing: a) I'm accessing the headless PI, via two open SSH putty connections, from my laptop which has a local IP address of 192.168.1.4 and the PI has a local IP address of 192.168.1.61. b) I run the script using one SSH connection and watch the script increment the runtime_frame_count which prints out on each new frame gathered; i'll call this SSH window run-ssh-window, then I use the other SSH connection to send the commands, i'll call this command-ssh-window. c) When thread 2 starts (server) the script outputs from the run-ssh-window 

Google Chrome installation instruction Note: Exagear, which is needed is not free it does cost a few bucks for a license! Configure Raspbian 

Have you tried a solution similar to this? Try running this in the terminal: For the official tutorial from remote3.it see the bottom of this post! Check the OS Version First, you will need to determine which version of the OS is installed on your Pi. Run: 

The Rapup Now we make it all work Thats all there is. Once you have setup your /.xbindkeysrc confirguration file, you just need to configure xbindkeys to run automatically on system startup. This is going to be different depending on your windows manager, but here are the steps for KDE and Gnome Gnome3 There’s a tool in GNOME 3 which allows you to add, modify and remove autostart entries and you can run it by executing from a terminal or from the ALT+F2 dialog. Just run gnome-session-properties Click on “Add” Write ‘Xbindkeys’ in the Name and ‘/usr/bin/xbindkeys’ as the Command and press OK. And done Open System Settings. Go to Advanced tab -> Autostart. Click on “Add Program…”. Write ‘/usr/bin/xbindkeys’ and press OK. A new dialog pops up. Press OK again. Done! Source I hope this helped you! 

Save the file with ctrl+ x and then the key to save the file! Then open the cron tab to edit! The -e is for edit: 

Which, to me, suggested that I needed to flush the first two values i'd loaded! Following this example, I could see that following a popleft I got 0 then 10 then 1a, so it dawned on me that I was preloading the dque with 2 integers not numpy arrays. so I modified my script to flush out the 2 pre loaded integers and it worked: 

I have Motion installed on one PI and wondered if it was possible to easy duplicate the install process, with dependencies, on a another pi without either: 1) Installing and configuring it again 2) Removing the SD card and making a backup of the image, then duplicating the image to the second PI I remember it was difficult to get it working with the NOIR PI-cam, and I cannot remember exactly what I did to get it to work. 

and the resultant jpg output of an integer of value 10: I'm assuming eclipse doesn't complain when you ask it to convert the number 10 to a jpg, but the PI does! 

I've recently moved my headless PI to a hard to get at location, and now am having problems with my WIFI connection dropping out. I'd previously installed a script to reconnect the WIFI if it didn't see an IP address present, and all was dandy; but since moving it's resulted patchy reception. 1) Does this script actually work if iv'e hard coded the IP address to be static, not to use DCHP? 2) It only reconnects if I pull the power and reboot, why could this be? network interfaces file: 

Skip the following if already have a editor selected: You should be prompted to choose an editor. Press enter to select nano as the default editor. Now if you skiped the above then start again here: You will now be looking at a empty file if this is the first time trying to schedule a cron job. If you already have cron jobs scheduled then you will see a list of cron jobs scheduled. Each line should contain a cron job. Note: You are only viewing the cron jobs that are running for your current user. Most likely that is ‘pi’. Check out the commands below to see how you can view the cron jobs for other users as well as schedule cron jobs for other users. Lets add a new scheduled task. The layout for a cron entry is made up of six components: minute, hour, day of month, month of year, day of week, and the command to be executed. The following command would run a PHP script every day at 6 am: 

So we need to add our button-to-key configurations, but first we need to know what ‘events’ the mouse buttons are triggering before we can remap them. For this we can use xev, this program is a key and mouse event sniffer. It runs by opening a small window. You can now start pressing keyboard or mouse buttons over the window and see if they are detected. For example the forward button on my Logitech Revolution MX looks something like this: 

Iv'e tested this script on my pi, by running it every min, but cannot see any messages in the logs from the script. I can however see it being called by the cron. 

I've been looking in the syslog file to try and find out why this may be happening but i'm getting myself confused, so I've switched my attention to a patch, not a fix. From what I understand of the logs, the wifi seems to stop trying to re connect and will only reestablish following a reboot. A nasty but effective way of re establishing the connection, is to but I'm running a headless PI so I have to pull the power. Could someone give me some pointers on how to modify this script to force a reboot if the script has been called 10 times in succession, but the wifi is still down. Script 

2) Is it possible to modify the server script to incorporate the CV2 motion detection stuff, and have it continually detecting motion, regardless of the state of the server? 3) If I have two scripts, and only have the motion detection script grabbing a img (numpy array), how could I pass this img to the server script for display over the web? I hope I've made myself clearer... 

These ips aren't either of my pis on the network, so i'm guessing they'e my Laptop. The bit i'm interested in is the "crash","down and "pts/o". Could someone please explain what these are? 

If I understand correctly, you want to start ssh at boot? won't start at boot but that allows you to start it manually. You could use a system cron? To do that use: Make sure nano is installed 

This shows you are using raspberry pi Jessie! Or stretch will work also! If you are using the Wheezy version of Raspbian, or to support other ARM boards using Debian (such as BeagleBone Black and Wandboard), please follow the installation directions here. Install the weavedconnectd package First, get the latest repositories: 

Download ExaGear Desktop archive with installation packages and license key. Unpack the downloaded archive by entering the following command in Terminal: 

Alternatively you can install the package chromium-browser instead of chromium. That’s all! If you are connected through SSH or not using the graphical user interface, you should start (startx). Otherwise you can also establish a remote desktop connection. Now click the start button and navigate to “Internet” where you will find the Chromium shortcut. 

The goal is to configure the mouse buttons to send key combinations to activate o ther desktop or application functionalities. Technically all xbindkeys is doing is executing an application in response to a keystroke or mouse button. So in-order to map a mouse button to a keystroke we have to install an application called xte, which in Ubuntu comes as part of the xautomation package which can be installed like this 

I ran the command from shell, and it came back with /home/pi/box/pi_pictures' is not a directory`. I added this directory, via shell, to the pi, and BINGO! 

When i use the web interface (mmaltest) on motion it doesn't appear to change the operation of motion. It remembers the values i change on the web interface, so looks like it's working, but is's not transferring the values across when i look using terminal. 1) where does motion look for its motion.conf file? I've seen a conf file in etc/motion.conf and /ect/motion/motion.conf; which one is motion using? 2)if motion runs as user motion, and the permissions are set to 0777 can user pi see /change the motion.conf file? 

a) The motion side of the script works, but the server doesn't. b) I can serve a simple webpage using the same IP address and port, using a different script, so I don't think something else is using that port. c) Both PI and laptop are on the same local network. 1) Are there any other tests I can do, that could point to what is wrong? 2) What do these errors suggest? Edit: gives: 

1) Did this not work because of having control_authentication set up? 2) Is it possible to control motion in this way with authentication set up if so how? 3) Am I approaching this in the correct way? 

The above command will replace any Jessie keyword occurrence to Stretch thus effectively enabling new Stretch repositories. Once your /etc/apt/sources.list is updated to included Stretch repositories, update your local package index with: 

Install Chromium on Raspberry Pi’s by using git If you want to compile the Raspberry Pi Chrome (Chromium) Browser yourself, visit their Google Source repository where you can also check the code. The code is not available on GitHub, but that makes no difference for cloning and compiling the repository. But you should know that the files to download are about 15 gigabyte (after installing in fact 22 GB). This is why I recommend the first option, if you only want to install it quickly. If the installation above failed (for any reason) or you want to inspect / change the code, this is how you can do it (you must have a Raspberry Pi Model 2B / 3, because the models before have not 4 kernels): If you haven’t already installed git, you have to install it first: 

Depending on your internet speed this step can take a while. After finished downloading all files, you can compile the project. 

We need to edit this file in a text editor. I use nano, but vim, kate or gedit are just as good but you can of course use what ever editor you would prefer to… 

Or a more elegant solution is not to load the integers in in the first place, define an empty deque, and specify the max_qlen when one calls the function! 

I recently tried inserting a 5M USB extension cable in between my WIFI dongle and my PI, which didn't work, so I removed immediately; but the PI still wouldn't connect following a reboot for ages. Can adding a 5 meter USB extension cable to the WIFI dongle cause problems even after it's removed? 

I'm using opencv2 and V4L2 driver on my pi and have managed to get a tiny picture out of the Raspberry Pi Camera Module with the following script: 

I tried , but that made no difference, then i tried which did the job! Thanks Rune Vikestad for suggesting this, I can now install packages again. Does this suggest i had too much installed on my 4GB sd card or something else? 

2) can someone please explain exactly what this line is doing. 3) my motion.conf file is located in /etc with permission 0755, does this mean user "motion" will not be able to write to the file? 

I needed to make the file "motion.conf" user, owner and group to "motion" then it let me control it using the web interface. 

I am using the raspberry pi NOIR board to supply a Python motion detection script. This "motion detection script" uses opencv2 to grab, modify and detect motion. I wanted to extend the motion detection script, by adding a continuous live feed, within the motion detection script, but have run into problems. The problem I have, is I cannot have the two operations accessing the NOIR camera board together, because this upsets the PI. 1) Is it some how possible to have two scripts grabbing frames together using the below code in each?