Looks like it's reserved by IANA - the organisation that hands out IP addresses see 000/8 in the table. The table shows 000/8 to 255/8 that's 0.0.0.0/8 to 255.0.0.0/8 I think in Windows if ipconfig shows it, it means no ip address assigned, like ipconfig /release might or would cause it. and in netstat -n whether it's 0.0.0.0 listed as Listening or a private address from RFC 1918 like 192.168.1.0 or if it's 127/8 they tell you who can connect, so if 0.0.0.0 then anybody, if 192.168.1.0 then only them, and if 127/8 then only local host. As to what protocol, all I can say is IP since they're IP Addresses. But maybe some higher layer protocols do.. It's not for broadcasts. And it wouldn't identify any more than any othe ip adress or network, infact less since a computer on a network shouldn't have that IP address. In windows when a computer has that IP it is not on a network. (correction, it would be on a network if there's a wired or wireless connection, and as grawity points out, they'd still have their MAC addresses) $URL$ 

I see some deleted answers that mention some useful things Apparently slhck suggested Bleeping Computer's $URL$ That worked for the OP. Somebody else suggested $URL$ That has a reg fix that may be for a particular error, but it also mentioned another bleeping computer tool called far bar, of which there seem to be two.. $URL$ $URL$ 

You got the volts right $URL$ 1.8V $URL$ 1.8 volts. Maybe your motherboard needs RAM on its list of compatible RAM modules $URL$ scroll down, Click the Mrmory tab and a list appears. Looking at your latest comments, neither module is on the list, the first works, the second doesn't. So get one that's on the list or identical to the first. The list means the motherboard manufacturer has tested it and found that it works. Or one identical to the original since you tested that one and found that it worked, and you'll be using it anyway in the upgrade from 2GB to 2GB via 2*2GB. 

edit the source to remove any miscellaneous parts.. like HTML attributes, obvious things that shouldn't be there.  or use this line which is better and should just get them all without anything miscellaneous to remove. 

The subject is Digital Systems Design, it's not really within what people here tend to know about. I only scraped the subject a tiny bit, long ago. Digital Circuit Design is another one. These kind of books Digital Design: Principles and Practices (Prentice Hall Xilinx design series) John F. Wakerly here on amazon maybe A First Course in Digital Systems Design: An Integrated Approach John P. Uyemura I know the first book provides a good foundation to digital system design, and if I recall, a fascinating discussion of CMOS. The first book there mentions Xilinx. And if you use that it may be very interesting for you. And a link on the xilinx site mentions about FPGA and ASIC $URL$ so I think it hits very much on the subject area you are asking about. But I must say, the way you have worded your question(e.g. writing of programming in many dimensions), sounds a bit untechnical and sloppy, and these are technical subjects. I don't know enough about FPGA, ASIC or Hardware Description Languages to comment on that other than the name of the subject as I have. I don't know what you mean re dimensions. As for streams of code moving. It's never that. Computers involve electricity going through circuits. Programs break into assembly language, which breaks into simple instructions you can build with logic gates. . 

What would cause an EXE extension to be mandatory at the command line and how can it be resolved in the current shell? I had a path that was long. > 2048 characters, and I installed a program, nodejs that added to that path. And then things went a bit screwy. I had a problem that some people seem to get at some point when their path is > 2048 char. The bulk of my path got removed. (I still have some old cmd shells with my path so that's not a big problem so i've saved my old path in a file) And the windir environment variable got (I think set to nothing), in the registry. And I couldn't even open the environment variables window (this is a symptom people can get when their path is > 2048 char and they lose their windir variable). So I used setx to create and I opened the environment variables window and fixed my PATH to what it was. And now cmd prompt windows that I open are fine. But I still have some older cmd prompt windows from prior to me fixing it, and I understand the path is shortened in them, and I understand there's no windir variable set, but I still see a bizarre result in them that I cannot explain. And that i'd like to be able to fix from within those cmd windows. It seems that I need to put the EXE after an executable in order to run it. 

how do I create an image from a usb stick in windows.. that I could then later write to a usb in rufus or whatever program. also I want to make an image(from a usb stick), where the image doesn't include the files(if that's possible), so it'd copy any boot record or partition, (I understand that info may be at the beginning of the disk anyway), and I could then add whatever files I want later. 

the following doesn't matter much, but I no doubt meant to also say, that after , doing ipconfig /release, ipconfig showed the LAN still has an IP. but I and everybody assumed that from the title- correctly. so, ipconfig /release didn't work on the LAN. and for those that don't bother to read the comments, the ultimate answer/reason, was that it was a static ip and that's why ipconfig /release didn't work on the LAN. 

will output a list of IPs You could run a for loop on that just reading each line into a variable then it's not a question of reading IPs just reading lines of a file. 

this link has PATH and other environment variables $URL$ states that the default path in windows 7 is 

Programs that use more GUI objects, cause more of an issue.. So it makes sense. I don't think i've seen it on the laptop with 1600MB video memory.. though I did have some kind of issue once loading programs.. so it may have been that 'cos I doubt it was the 12GB RAM. But either way, the fact that the other computers I mention, had video memory of 128MB or 32MB, even though they had more than enough RAM. Shows that it looks like video memory that was the issue. It'd be good to be able to see how much video memory is consumed, and to be able to flush video memory. 

you use search and replace, and tick the regex box, and look for a regex for finding IPs. e.g. put it in the find section and put nothing in the replace section. If you want something that limits each octet to 0-255 then the regex would be a bit more complex, but you can google for regexes that identify IPs, but you may find that one I gave you is fine. It looks for the pattern of between one and 3 digits, followed by a dot, let's call that pattern blah that's .it looks for that to occur 3 times , followed then by one to three digits , giving the regex of but regexes are a subject in themselves as you can imagine. 

There aren't any commands in windows that only use dash. Even arp can use slash. Commands that can use dash are based on *nix commands e.g. arp or shutdown. With shutdown, the cmd help depends on windows version! In XP cmd help shows shutdown -? In Win7 it shows shutdown /?. The MS web help shows it with a dash. But either windows version accepts either. With arp, the cmd help in XP and 7, and the web help, show it with dash. But they can accept slash. I don't think MS have ever rewritten a command that took dashes, to only accept slash. And the idea you mention in comments, that you're worried that one implementation might differ from another in using vs I don't think so. You'd struggle to find any example of that, I doubt it has ever happened. Microsoft simply don't do that! If a dash works in one windows version for a command, i'd be surprised if it didn't work in another(for that command). If you ever hear of that happening, e.g. you see an example of it, then you could start concerning yourself with how to know which to use to be compatible across windows versions. Though even then you could go with slash because they all seem to accept it. 

To clarify. You are differentiating between the computer drive(that would I suppose look like a DVD drive). Compared to the device that attaches to a TV. 

But the following discussion involves copying/pasting from the Windows-1255 one. Copy to Clipboard in Chrome 

Please consider submitting the fingerprint so that all Nmap users can benefit. It only takes a minute or two and it may mean you don't need to see that ugly message again when you scan the host with the next Nmap version! Simply visit the URL Nmap provides for instructions. If Nmap finds no matches and yet prints no fingerprint, conditions were not ideal. Even if you obtain the fingerprint through debug mode or XML output, please don't submit it unless Nmap asks you to (as in the previous example). 

I edited the path in notepad PATH=C:\Python33\; <-- may not be wrong but i'd remove the \ so C:\Python33; and these three should really be at the beginning C:\Windows\system32;C:\Windows;C:\Windows\System32\Wbem; C:\Windows\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\; (may not be wrong but i'd remove the \ ) C:\Program Files\WIDCOMM\Bluetooth Software\; ditto ;C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft ASP.NET\ASP.NET Web Pages\v1.0\; ditto C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\110\Tools\Binn\; <-- Binn, hmm, turns out that's right Binn. Though i'd still change \; to ; C:\Program Files (x86)\QuickTime\QTSystem\; <-- the \ C:\Program Files (x86)\Common Files\Acronis\SnapAPI\; <-- the \ C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\8.1\Windows Performance Toolkit\; <-- the \ C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\TypeScript\; <--- the \ C:\Program Files (x86)\MySQL\MySQL Utilities 1.3.4\;; <--- two semi-colons!!! that should be one semi-colon So, try that I mention. If it works then you can make it permanent in the GUI. I'd do it for the system path variable and remove the user path variable. (I think the user one appends to the system one, it's unnecessaru unless you want multiple users each with their own slightly different path) And if it fails.. then you can remove chunks and see if it works, thus troubleshooting it. added- If the system path is greyed out, try making the user path blank, (put it in a text file first as a backup). Then click OK, open a cmd prompt window, and now you should try appending a directory to the path within the cmd prompt and see if it works.. So, now type PATH see that the above command did append Git to the Path. And see if Git runs. That tells you that the PATH as it was, has no error in it. That means the System path is OK.. (as the user path was blank so the path there is just the system path). Try not to write any directories in the user path that duplicate what is in the system path, though probably no harm if you do. Then, look at that long set PATH= that I wrote which was an amendment of yours, and execute it at the cmd prompt and see if it works. If it does, then put it in the GUI. If it doesn't then troubleshoot why, by halving it, removing Git, appending Git, see if Git runs. See, if the final directory listed in the Path is searched, then the whole Path is fine. Hopefully that method will enable you to troubleshoot it and fix the Path. 

It doesn't use TCP or UDP(protocols that have a port), so there's no port. Grab wireshark and look at the packet itself. Just after IP is the ICMP protocol. The TCP protocol isn't used. There are no TCP fields there in the 'packet'. After IP is ICMP. (The word packet can refer to just part of what is sent or I think it can refer to the whole lot - I mean the latter - I believe that definition is used in telecomms). Notice the highlighted part is the 'packet' in the specific sense, and that uses IP, see the IP fields highlighted. And past that is ICMP. It's much easier to see in wireshark itself. As you can click on different 'layers'/protocols, and see the correct bytes/fields highlighted. The terminology that is often used is that of layers.using the ISO/OSI reference model but applied to the TCP/IP architecture. Layer 1 is physical, Layer 2 is the frame (you see there is Ethernet), Layer 3 is the packet. ICMP is a kind of layer 3.5 And there is no layer 4 because there is no TCP. "layers" are a way designers came up with of speaking of these fields. When (in networking) people say Port, they mean TCP Port or UDP port. No TCP or UDP, then no Port. To use that OSI terminology - TCP and UDP exist at layer 4 , the transport layer, so, no port. But look in wireshark you see no TCP fields. 

Look into cloning software.. I'll be a naughty boy and include a quick survey too. Norton/Symantec ghost and acronis are not free. (people tend to prefer acronis but both are good). Clonezilla is ugly as hell but ok if you are ok with it. $URL$ Paragon and Easeus make good partition software but they make cloning software too. Paragon drive copy is apparently not free. Easeus disk copy $URL$ is apparently free. There's also Macrium Reflect Another method, and this may only work if the hard drive has identical geometry. Is to boot off a linux live CD and use the dd command, or ddrescue command (ddrescue gives a progress bar so is preferable for it). It just copies the whole drive bit for bit. You can copy just a partition too but I wouldn't play with dd in the context of making a backup unless you know what you're doing and be sure to test it too(and of course, if tested and it works then you backed it up right and restored it right)! Some of these programs will be reading a partition making an image file of it. Some will just clone a partition to a partition, maybe a drive to a drive. I wouldn't worry too much about whether they make an image file, or whether they directly clone a drive to another drive, unless you have a strong preference. Both are OK for a backup and have their advantages and disadvantages. An image file means it can sit on your current hard drive just as a file, and even another hard drive too, and when you want to restore it you can use it. If it's not as an image file, and it's just directly copying the drive to another, then it means you'll probably want to be careful how you treat your backup drive and where you place it. For example you don't want to corrupt the windows installation on your backup drive. But it's fast it's there done already. An image file is very portable and when you want to make a full backup to another drive, from an image file, you can. Though a lot of the time I don't I just open an image file in the backup software and get the files I want from it. Image files are generally proprietary though.. So an Acronis image file can only be opened in Acronis, and even free programs that make image files, like Macrium, uses a priorietary format that can only be opened in Macrium, etc though maybe VHD is generic.