Yes you can do this by putting a BLOCK INHERITANCE on that Domain Controller's GPO. After doing that you can load all the policies that would apply to those GPOs and put your GPO with the accounts you want set on top. So it could be in this order: 

I did a winrm/config restore. On WinRM/config the output was Restore_OUTPUT. On the winrm/plugin it shows the following error . It also states the plugin folder is missing or in an invalid format. Google does not show a lot of information for this error. I am wondering what the WinRM plugin corruption looks like if the server can connect with Server Manager on the other servers. So am wondering if this is an issue that the servers are not connected to the Internet. Does the Server Manager Add/REmove only work while connected to the internet because previous Servers OSs did not. EDIT1: Checked the GPO for "Remote Shell Access" it is set to "Not Configured" so this is not causing the issue. Also this still does not fix the WinRM runspace pool issue. EDIT2: Added information on the PSSession 

When I do a in PowerShell I just get a long list of updates it can't find. No actual communication information. I can get to that link if I put it in to a browser and the firewall is not blocking WSUS. What am I missing? Can anyone supply me with any other information. I am also still learning how to actually read ELT files using the correct procedure. EDIT 1: Attempting to run the Characters and WDK10 on the client to interpret the ELT files better. EDIT 2: Running the tool gives me the following Error: 

I have a unique server setup and before you say anything, yes I know RDC isn't the best way to remote to a server but these are the constraints I have to deal with. Anyway I have a network of 4 servers 2 being used as domain controllers. Recently I am getting an error from 2 of the servers that are not domain controllers when I remote to them: 

I have a Windows 7 Professional I had in an UO called "Testing" using Windows Server 2008 R2. In the OU a GPO setting to disable the registry access was set: User Configurations/Administrative templates/System/Prevent access to the registry - Enabled I have since removed this GPO from this OU and no other GPO is altering that settings. That GPO is no longer linked in the OU and it is removed. Problem is when I try to access the registry on the machine I am still blocked. Looking into the RSOP it shows the computer is still playing the setting. How can it still be set if no GPO is telling it to remain set? And how can I remove this setting from being set and bring it back to "Not Configured"? 

I have a Windows Server 2016 running WSUS (WID Database). The nodes on my system are all Windows 10 Professional. They are configured through group policy to check the Server 2016 for updates. The nodes and server are not behind a proxy in anyway. Based on the WSUS Console it shows all the nodes are checking in when I press "Check for Updates". When you look on the node it throws the following message: 

I found that these settings are best for setting preferences and security settings with the Windows Based services. I do have a number of system services disabled that are not Windows Based services and that is where I found the answer. The location is 

I am trying to figure out why my Server 2 which is a domain controller is getting an error saying "Access Denied" when I am trying to access group policy management. I have checked and it is giving some kind of Kerberos error. I am unsure how to fix the Access is denied error. Active directory seems to be working. When I do an NLTEST it says that it is seeing itself as the DC it is getting information from. Here is where it gets weird. After going into some of the errors I found that I cannot access anything when I try to access the Server1 which is my Fully Qualified Domain server or primary Domain controller. When I try to go to file shares on the PDC from the BDC it states I don't have access. When I go the opposite direction things work out correctly. Now when I checked the event logs it states it has been to long since replication has happened to the Server2 from Server1. As far as I can tell Server2 has not access to get to Server1. I am stumped. OH AND TO MAKE THINGS WORSE the group policy set on Server2 will not allow for registry editing. As started before I think this is a Kerberos thing but I can't figure out how to reset or even sync the Kerberos passwords with this access is denied problem. And this whole mess started when one of our servers time clock messed up do to a bad CMOS battery. So the Server1 time is set correctly and so is Server2 but still getting an issue. I am getting this error -> The Kerberos client received a KRB_AP_ERR_MODIFIED error I have done some research and I don't have any way of getting around that. Can anyone help me or give me some guidance as I have not mucked around with FQDNs and 2 DCs at the same time. And it makes it more a pain I can't edit the registry or the fact that it is looking to itself as a domain for references. Can any one help me with my replication issue? 

Found the issue. For some reason the share was showing up for computers but not on the File Server section of the server. I re-added the share after a restart. Share now shows up on all the machines through GPO. Don't know how it was looking like a ghost on the computers and the server but it is now working. 

Added the key and restarted the Windows Remote Management service and SERVER1 can now refresh status with SERVER2. Did a quick check on the Listener for WinRM and found it was listening through port 5296 but had no firewall rule to allow it through. Made a firewall rules and now both servers are talking. To check your WinRM comms go to CMD and run the following commands. 

I have a Windows Server 2016 machine installed with WSUS. I have the firewall port 8530 and 8531 allowed through. I have 10 updates approved and ready for download. I have a GPO with 3 computers in it with the Intranet location for WSUS set to HOSTNAME:8530 and Stats server set to $URL$ I am trying to get the laptops on Windows 10 x64 to connect to the server and pull the updates. When I go to connect to the WSUS server Windows Updates states: 

I have IIS installed to run a few websites for WSUS and a few other things. After a fresh install I am trying to access the IIS page. Using $URL$ I am able to see the page. Using $URL$ I cannot. I have the firewall rule to allow port 80 through as well as checked the binding. Binding is set to: 

I am looking to replace 2 servers with one server and run the original servers as virtual machines. I am looking to use Windows Server 2016 as the hardware server and the VMs also running Windows Server 2016. I am wondering about the math that goes into the amount of memory and CPUs I need for each VM that the hardware server should have. Currently both servers run 8 CPUs and 48GB or RAM. I done some research and they are saying to have 4 extra cores besides each VM to run the hardware server. Many hardware manufacturers only look like I will be able to run 2 or 3 Virtual Servers on them. Is my math or understanding wrong or is there a rule of thumb to calculation the amount of CPUs and RAM to run virtual servers on a hardware server. 

I am applying a Domain level group policy to all my machines including in Domain Controllers. The PDC is getting the policy correctly but the other domain controller is not showing the "Account Policies" correctly. It is showing them as "Not Configured". This includes the Account and Password Policy. The strange thing is when you do something that complies to that policy, such as logging in on an account incorrectly 3 times, it locks you out. That is the correct for the policy. When I run rsop.msc it shows all of the other settings in the policy correctly just not the Account Policies. Any ideas of what I can do to make them show up correctly? When I rand a GPRESULT it show everything applied but the Account Polices. 

This happens on everyone. I do see from TraceView from the SDK tool kit that all the events show system times and No Format Information found. Is it connected and not getting this data or is it just looking for all these updates? 

Having an issue with auditing a network for logins. I am looking for Event 4740 but the logs are not showing them. Neither on the local machines either. I have verified that Account Management Auditing has been enabled and is set to Success And Failure and I have checked the Logon/Logoff policy for Account Lockout to Success. I have tested the account on a domain machine and the log on the machine shows the account failing but never logs that the account is locked out. When I check the Domain Controllers it shows the account failed to login but is showing NULL SID. Even then it does not show the lockout event either. Anyway to figure out why it is not logging the Lockout event with it enable to do so? 

Users still cannot login. I am entirely confused. I have to many machines to go to individually and grant access. Can anyone suggest a step I am missing? 

I have recently installed the Lumension Device Control Management Console on a computer on my Domain. There is a GPO on the domain which is enforcing security settings and audit settings. Now that I have the software installed when I go to Open the software the EXE loads and shows up in Task manager but the window never comes up. When I disable the group policy it opens fine. Normally when the program loads it asks if you want to login to the console with domain account credentials. I am wondering if this both a network block or just a group policy setting preventing it from opening. This is not the standard "you cannot use this program because settings are being enforced" issue that is usually prompted when you have a list of programs your preventing from running. Are there specific settings I can look for that is affecting this Windows 7 Machine from opening the management console when the GPO is Enabled? I have looked at it with Process Monitor running but I am a little confused as to where to find evidence. 

GPO A is used to patching our system so the Windows Update service is set to Automatic when it in set to "Link Enabled". GPO B is setting company required security settings so it sets the Windows Update Service to Disabled. PROBLEM - When GPO is enabled and enforced the Windows Update service is set to Disabled. According to RSOP it should be set to Automatic but it is not actually started or automatic, it is disabled. GPO A should be taking precedence and setting it to Automatic. QUESTION - Can 2 GPOs not control 1 service? As I understand GPO is managed by precedence so GPO A should be keeping the service in automatic when the GPOs are processed. Is there a way I can keep these settings the same or does one of the GPOs need to have Windows Update server reconfigured? EDIT 1: If I wrote a startup script which started the service in Powershell the GPO would disable the service once it reapplied every hour anyway. Even with the GPO enforced it still disables the service as well. 

Even when the bindings were set to default I am unable to get to it from $URL$ or $URL$ Default is this. 

Found an issue where I moved the child domain DC out of the Site in Sites & Services and the DNS records were missing in DNS. I moved the child DC back in and remade the records and all is talking again. 

I have a Top level domain controller (DC1) running the top level forest on my network. I added a Tree Domain Controller (TDC1) as a new domain in the forest. I am trying to add ENTERPRISE ADMINS to the new Tree in Active Directory. So essentially those in the ENTERPRISE ADMINS group for the forest on DC1 are also admins on TDC1. When I try to add the group or a group from it from DC1 to TDC1 it does not allow me to select another domain to pull the group. Is it possible to make the ENTERPRISE ADMINS, domain admins on the Tree domain or do I have to remake users are that domain to allow them to login to that domain? Or can I make a group on the forest level DC1 and add that group to the TDC1 domain as permissions require? All Servers running Windows Server 2016. EDIT Tree domain as shown here in the Server 2016 Configuration Manager section when adding a Domain to a Forest. 

Support from the create of the script helped fix the issue. Will update this answer with code when I can pull it off the server. 

The log shows the same error. I haven't made any changes to the system other than the installation of the cumulative 2018-02 update for server 2016. I can't find anything on google about this error with wsusutil. I am hoping I won't have to do a full WSUS reinstall. Has anyone had this problem? OUTPUT LOG from Adamj-WSUS-Script: Output Last line of the Export Log file: 

Found the issue. Someone setup a different GPO that was above the one I was working on with the "Enable Windows Remote Shell" set to "Disabled". Set to "Not Configured" in my Patching GPO and can now Add/Remove Features. 

Is there something in my GPO that is preventing an account from accessing this directory? This directory has not been specified anywhere in my GPOs but it immediately failed when on my domain. When the server is off the network it installs WSUS without a problem. How can I check? 

SETUP - I am running a small network with Windows Server 2008 R2 on it. I have 2 GPOs running security settings required by my company. In the following Hierachy: 

Found the issue to be that it was not listening for it's ipaddress to resolve the computer name or website by the ipaddress. Here is how I fixed it. 

Source: Apply once and do not reapply - What exactly this GPO setting means? I want to know does this apply per computer when it restarts? Does that mean if I did a GPUpdate it will not reapply and try to start the service unless I put in an item to delete the RunOnce registry entry? I guess I am asking if the do once and not run again mean it only runs once ever unless you do a registry change?