I'm trying to sync a large tree on Linux, but include and exclude certain files/directories. My question is regarding rsync's --relative option and how relative paths are handled. Directory structures appear something like: 

I have an old IDE drive with windows 7 installed on it. I disconnected that drive, and installed a new windows 7 to a new drive (SSD). I want to extract data from the old drive. However, the problem I am having is, when the drive is connected to MoBo, windows wants to boot from this drive. The BIOS is crap, and doesn't allow me to arrage the order of the various hard drives on the system. I want to stop this drive from booting. Can I erase the booting information on its partitions, or on or near the MBR. I, like many people, struggle to repair the windows booting information, not destroy it. I know I "could" use an external enclosure to read its data. But this is a good way to learn something new. I am familiar with GNU/Linux, so if there is a known method of using it to solve my issue, that will be fine. Thanks 

I have a desktop with a high-res display and laptop with a low-res display. Can the laptop log into the desktop and display its screen as if it were low-res? -- as if I had a low-res second monitor connected to the desktop. I'm not talking about shrinking the pixels or cutting off the screen with scrollbars (as is default in Chicken of the VNC) 

I have a Time Machine backup folder on an external drive. I'm done using Time Machine forever, and I just want to access those files in Finder without all the restrictions placed on "backup" files. Is there a terminal command I can run to give me all permissions to delete, move, etc? 

Using a VM is a little overkill. AV should be scanning it on receiving anyway. For extra peace of mind; Sandboxing would be the answer. Using something like Comodo (free) virtual desktop or having it sandbox the PDF readers executable on execution is easiest I think. I've run Comodo alongside other AV software fine, just disable Comodos AV. Mostly used for it's firewall features so it's extra protection. As a side note .. Consider how all these PDFs would be created? If it's from your own service or customers/clients then there shouldn't be a problem if they want your services. (less likely but I know the problems) 

Crappy scripting aside (I'm betting it's that causing me trouble though!); I can find the value (always 4 results) in 2 scans in scanmem attached to the PID (from ps ax | grep bash) but the variable refuses to SET to 300. I confirmed they're correct using UPDATE and LIST. It will actually SET but always returns to the next increment. So why does the value refuse to be changed? script is run as user, scanmem is sudoed 

I'm looking for a "one-click" way of taking ANY PDF and converting it to plain text. Ideally on OSX or Linux. Ideally, the solution would include OCR functionality, but it need not necessarily. The top priority is having something that can take ANY file WITHOUT configuration. 

I was sent here from Photography Stack Exchange. I'm looking for a portable hard drive enclosure (2.5" notebook) that plugs into an SD card slot and LOOKS like an SD card to the camera. The obvious advantage being unlimited space for video recording. But where it really comes in handy (and crucial) is when you factor in how long it takes to transfer a giant multi-GB video file from the camera's SD card to a hard drive. As far as I can tell, the fastest possible setup maxes at about 20MB/s. (Similar to how Eye-Fi works) 

I'm trying to copy the contents of a series of directories non-recursively to another remote system. 

I want to transfer directories and files under 'company?' non-recursively. This (so far) appears to do what I am after: 

try the Chrono extension for chrome. In Options there is a field which lets you change the simultaneous number of downloads. $URL$ 

Puppet is a configuration management software which is capable of configuring a fleet of servers automatically by reading Puppet Manifests files. Such a file could include a definition of your /etc/sudoers file, which can then be pushed out to all your puppet "agents" from your puppet "master". Then all hosts will get the same copy of your /etc/sudoers file, which can (and should) include HOST definitions, so you can grant some users some commands on some hosts (but not on others). 

OSX 10.6 includes the ability to show a "preview" of PPT files by selecting a file in Finder and hitting Cmd-Y. But in this preview, I cannot select text to copy and paste, and I cannot print or save in a different format. Is there an app for OSX that simply converts PPTs to PDFs? 

In Dropbox on OSX, I have a local folder that I have shared with another Dropbox user, Bob. Previously, I put some files in this folder, and Bob got them synced on his PC. Just now, I ACCIDENTALLY put some other files in that folder, which I under no circumstances want Bob to see. Realizing my mistake, I immediately removed them from this local folder; some of them had already uploaded, but not all. I then promptly logged onto dropbox.com and removed Bob from this shared folder, just to be sure. Question 1: If Bob's PC was turned off when I did this, is there any chance he will see the files? Question 2: If Bob's PC was turned on when I did this, is there any chance he will see the files? 

dir1, dir2, and dir3 contain many directories that I do not want copied. Copy on the remote host to /dirB maintaining the same directory structure. I tried: 

server1 has a filename.tgz and I need to copy it to server2. I would like to keep daily copies on server2, like: 

I'm having trouble finding a way to transfer a file from dir1/file to dir2/ using sftp protocol. I"ve tried because I need to provide password non-interactively, and public/private keys aren't available for me. 's is available, but it requires public/private key auth. I cannot use 's , , or . In the man page, seems promising: 

It can be done with other tools, but I am interested to know how can I delete all but the last X lines of the file with . 

PS: I think Google Drive will allow you to view PDF without "executing" anything locally, so see about storing them there and I'm sure it's virus checked also. 

Windows has a "Reset This PC" in Control Panel, negating the need to reinstall. Granted it's maybe not as clean and any Dual boot menu may be lost. I believe you need to boot in BIOS mode to see BIOS drives correctly on installation. and vica-versa. How I install a dual boot system in UEFI 1: Install WIndows in UEFI from USB. 2: Use YUMI (UEFI version) In windows to create an Ubuntu Live USB and install/re-partition from there. A windows ISO can also be added to the YUMI USB and booted from there, you choose which to boot during startup. I generally have several OS's on one 32GB stick. IF You want to keep an existing OS which is BIOS boot then when you choose a device to boot to from BIOS; a USB stick will sometimes have 2 listings, one prefixed with **UEFI: **, the one without is BIOS boot. 

I download all files in remote dir1/. They are downloaded to a directory which contains hundreds of files. I need to copy the file to a remote "archive" directory. I need to delete the file from dir1/ (above). 

I have been reading the rsync man page, but I'm not clear on whether I should use the --backup-dir option or the --copy-dest option I'll have a command similar to 

I had to add a static route to my wireless router BACK to the 192.168.2.0/24 network via 192.168.1.103 (laptop). Now windows can browse web via lappy! SOLVED 

I installed Notepad++ 6.0 and the Explorer Plugin. When I right click a file in the side window, I don't get options for TortoiseSVN. When right clicking on a file in Windows Explorer, I do see options for TortoiseSVN. Any ideas on why this might be? 

Question: How can I add power to a USB cable without using a USB hub? ... Background: I have a USB device that runs on bus power. I don't know how much bus power it requires (I googled). When I plug it into my Macbook Pro, it works. When I plug it into my iPad Camera Connection Kit, it doesn't work. Googling confirms that this device needs more bus power than provided is by iPad, but people say they have made the device work with iPad by using a powered USB hub. So I bought a USB cable that has two male A connectors and one male B connector; the cable is marketed for connecting USB hard drives that require extra power: one male A has power and data lines, the other male A has only power lines. I tried that cable with my iPad and USB device and it doesn't work; the device doesn't light up any of its LEDs. 

Using vim (or vi) I want to align the sections with to the same column number. What's the easiest and fastest way to do this? (ignore the ugly bits for now) 

I'm writing bash shell scripts with Unix line endings using notepad++. However, the final line never contains a new line. I must manually create it by pressing "enter" and having a blank line in my document. How can I configure Notepad++ to always have a newline (line feed) at the end of all lines? 

has -C, --directory DIR: change to directory DIR. Does pax have something similar? This can be useful for backing up directory structures/hierarchies in a relative fashion, such as , instead of , or restoring from inside a directory other than $TARGET_DIR. I normally use pax in ustar (default) format, or sometimes cpio.