The raspberrypi 0 has a USB OTG port which can act as a host or a client, unlike regular USB ports which can only be one of those. Or in the case of charging only ports neither host or client. 

This is not a pi specific question. And the answer is there is no guarantee such a thing will work (it won't work if encryption like ssl, proxy, vpn or caching of dns is used). A better solution for your goal would be to use the same brand of browser on all your devices and enable history sync. Then you can just query that from any of your computers. If you still want to try this than get a second Ethernet port for the rpi and put it between your modem and router (won't log local traffic) 

You can also use a third party implementation to replace a Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provider. Here is a how-to from Oracle: $URL$ You can download the recommanded implementation here: $URL$ 

If you are using (or ) you could add a goal to the deployment phase to copy a file via to your Raspberry Pi. This is described in an example here. Run to compile your project and copy the output to your Pi in one command. There sould also be a Maven Plugin to use it from inside of Netbeans. Add something like this to your : 

On recent official OS images this is disabled by default but likely you were using something else. If you want to check for sd card corruption just copy a 10 GB file to your card and then md5 the original and the one on the card. Plugging in a monitor to see what it's doing during boot is a good thing to try if this happens again. 

This script can be used on the rpi it is resizing. It assumes the root partition is the last one and it's name is hard coded. backup before use. Read the man pages for extended details. 

Oracle released Java 8 (and Java 7) for . Use the Link from this Page to get the currently best Java version for your Raspberry Pi. This should also work: 

Oracle released Java 8 (and Java 7) for . Use the Link from this Page to get the currently best Java version for your Raspberry Pi. This should also work: 

Pi4J supports Listeners for GPIO events implemented by interrupts in the library. Check this example. So you don't need to create multiple threads to bussy check for GPIO events. Also as the CPU only has one core your threads could not even be executed in real parallel. 

indicating I have 182 MB free (from 256 MB total). Not bad while running rtorrent, streaming an HD video via SMB, serving webpages, and reading weather sensors. I don't know what I would do on a headless box with the GB in the rpi2. 

Please provide your partition table ? If your root partition is boxed in by other partitions you need to move them first. This is what I normmally use to expand the root file system; 

I think the USB RFID Reader should work. The other RFID-Readers(only pins) could be used if your Development-Board does not have a USB Port (or it is used by other Items), maybe the read-IO is a bit quicker also because you can access it more directly and is it not routed through the USB Host Controller. 

I think and are written in . It is definitely not . If you want to use on a Windwos machine you can use an emulator like QEMU. Here is a How-To install. And here is the Download Homepage of the Project. The s are not emulated. If you want to experiment with hardware output you need to use a real Raspberry Pi. 

Assuming you don't want to make a hotspot on the pi or the phone, and don't want to use otg, bluetooth, etc; The phone can't directly push to the rpi via usb because it's the client, but you can have the rpi pull from the phone if you want. 

select popular open source so there will be many options for them. There are new options every year, some of them may meet specific needs better than the products listed, but this overview should give you a general idea of what to start comparing. 

Yes you can write your Java Program on a PC and transfer the compiled .jar to the Raspberry Pi and run it there. I use maven to manage my Project like that. Add this to your for automated transfer. You could also do this "by hand" via an usb-stick or winSCP for example. But this automates the copy on every build: 

Oracle released the full Version (no longer preview) of Java 8 and Java 7 for the architecture of the Raspberry Pi: link to Java 8. You can also use from the command line: 

You are using 2 different s, the one from apple thinks you want , and the one from Debian thinks you want . if you want the former use instead, and if you want the latter just don't use as it is redundant because it's part of which is part of so there is no need for you to use it because you are using . If you want a more compatable rsync you can get one from macports/homebrew/etc. Regarding "paths are relative", they are not. It's just that rsync is not expanding to so you can use absolute , relative , or pre evaluated variables . To permit deleting files, run the script as root or prefixed with sudo, or without the (equivalent to ) (use instead) 

Oracle released the full Version (no longer preview) of Java 8 and Java 7 for the ARM architecture of the Raspberry Pi: link to Java 8. You can also use from the command line: 

JavaCV is basically a wrapper around OpenCV and other related liberaries. There are a lot tutorial out there describing how to install und use OpenCV on the raspberry pi. So (without testing and knowing it exactly) I see no reason why JavaCV shouldn't run on a Raspberry pi. 

Wood is an OK thermal insulator so you should cut/drill 2 holes to allow air to flow straight in the bottom, across the CPU/RAM/LAN and out the top. The raspberrypi is fairly resistant to EMF (EMC certs(CE,FCC,CTick,CRTC), is still working for me after sitting on a PSU for 3 years) so the PSU should not be an issue but you can wrap it in a faraday cage (aluminum foil) if you want. Test with a cardboard box and see what the CPU reports the temperature to be for the shape you want after an hour of intensive use. It should not be more than 10 to 20 above its surroundings, and not above 85.