So I think this is related with Fiber Optic link but the packets counters are incrementing. ADD info : Patched cable of 3M cable due to specification. Problem not solved. Output of 

Device : cisco WS-C4500X-32 (MPC8572) processor (revision 4) with 4194304K/20480K bytes of memory. MPC8572 CPU at 1.5GHz, Cisco Catalyst 4500X IOS : cat4500e-universalk9.SPA.03.04.00.SG.151-2.SG (ROM: 15.0(1r)SG6) 

How can I get similar information on IOS-XR. By similar command, I get counters but no info about configured policed BW. 

Your scenario is somewhat confuse. If I uderstand well you want to filtered DHCP request on L2. You can achieve it by using the function DHCP Snooping features available on your platform. You could set all ports in untrusted mode so only DHCP reply from the switch will be accepted. DHCP Snooping - configuration guide 

I've an issue leading with Private Vlans. I've fiber modem and they can't reach the DHCP/TFTP to be provision. I suspect from the configuration of Private VLANs. Can you review them ? My doubts are mainly on access switch and trunk configuration on gigabit port. In brief, the modem when they power up they tried to get an IP through DHCP, send an untagged frame arrive at Access switch 4506 and should be handle on vlan 11 due they are the untagged private-vlan. After broadcast discovery DHCP should go to aggregator switch through vlan 10. On aggregator switch 4500x, there is an SVI vlan 10 with ip helper-address of provisioning server who send in unicast the packet to him. 

It seems I knew the answer to my own question already essentially; To aggregate layer 2 links and QoS them I must define the service insances to match each VLAN (rather than one VLAN per cusomer the same set of VLANs are being trunked down to all customers so they all fall under one class-map); 

Today this would likely be done by laying a fibre from your office back to a nearby PoP and from the DC to a PoP near the DC. Then most providers would create a L2 VPN (such as an MPLS pseudowire) between the PoPs across the service providers network between PoPs. It wouldn’t actually be a dedicated fibre from end-to-end. The two main exceptions are if the two sites are within close proximity of each other (in relative terms, say 20Km) the sites might both hair-pin through the same provider PoP. Or if you purchase what is usually called “Dark Fibre” then you are typically paying for dedicated end to end fibre strand(s). 

After a search on configuration guide and documentation, I didn't any evidence of a limitation on configuration on a certain VLAN on 450x SUP6E. Anyone know where I can found such information or confirm if is there any ? By my perception, there is no limitation on secondary IP possible to configure on a SVI or interface. Thanks. 

We have a connection between our Vyatta Router to our MPLS VPN Service Provider which is a Cisco device. We would like to know how to filter the OSPF advertisement routes on Brocade Vrouter 5400 (Vyatta). We are open to any other free or lowcost option. In order to find a solution, we tried to simulate it with GNS3. We are trying to filter from the vyatta to Cisco. The big picture : 

Meraki devices should be configured and managed remotely by a controller located in the cloud Meraki Dashboard Login. Locally you have access to limited information like the connectivity info. If your modem provide Internet access on LAN and gives private address through DHCP, you should not configure a public IP. If you don't own a meraki dashboard account and the device is not attached to your account, you will not be able to manage the device. 

BGP has a hello timer, this is detecting the the presence of it's immediate neighbour. Default is 30 seconds, I suspect this is what you are referring too. If both routers in your topology speak BGP with the ISP at each site or even directly to each other, over those peerings build IP-in-IP tunnels of GRE or L2TP(v3) tunnels between the two routers, over those tunnels run BFD or IP SLA. Now you can detect end-to-end connectivity loss in 1 or 2 seconds, and reroute to the other tunnel using tacking objects. All in all, you seem to be mixing up different layers of technology. BGP isn't suppose to provide fast re-routing, TCP isn't supposed to be duplicated, and so on. You're looking at the wrong levels of abstraction to tackle this problem. I hope this has helped. 

There is a lot to say on this field. I would like to add at Andy answer the following guidelines provided by Cisco. About the configuration itself, well you can improve ACL on line, service password-encryption, disable not used service like http and so on. 

To answer your first question, I would say ICMP run up on the third layer TCP/IP but don't use the fourth (TCP/UDP not involved) so I think it's correct to describe it as running on 3.5 Layer. You can analyze yourself the data inside ICMP using a packet analyser (Wireshark recommended). Here a picture to get a better idea. 

Edit1: Solution : - Removing the command solve the issue and I get access to router through SNMP. What is the purpose of such command ? Why on this router isn't working and on the others it is. 

I can't find any Cisco doc's that say "yes" or "no" definitively on this. Update: The supervisor is a RSP720-3CXl-GE. The line card I was trying to configure is an old WS-X6516A-GBIC. But I thought this wasn't depending on the line card but the IOS. I configured another port on that line card and selected "confirm" and sure enough it shut down and removed the sub-interfaces. I tried to then configure the port as a switchport first and then add sub-interfaces but I couldn't assign an IP address to the sub-interface; 

I have the following lab topology and I am using the below configuration on the 1841. What I want to achieve here is reserve 1000Kbps of bandwidth for traffic between the voice VLAN and the remote VoIP provider across the Internet (lets pretend; 10 users, each needs 100Kbps of up and down bandwidth for RTP, and they all always use the phone at the same time). 

I can't provide the level 15 to customer so I want to know how can I configure the view access and restrict to certain command. I tried but without sucess 

After a few tests, I found the solution and it's working. My first configuration was incomplete. Configuration Generator Here a working configuration : 

I found the solution to my issue, read more carefully the cisco doc, take some notes and test. It's working now. It's ring topology. We should configure on the same switch the ports, one 'edge' and the other 'edge primary' . In my example, I configure 4500x-1 the te1/1 as 'edge' and te1/16 'edge primary'. To achieve my goal, defining the alternate (block) port. I found two ways, - By the command - to be configured under primary edge port. and the port id can be found here on interface to be block : The other way is to configure under the port to be preferred as alternate entering under the interface configuration the following command Configuration Generator Link 

My problem here is that it lists the next hop as the link-local address and not the configured public routable address. Is this a native behavior of ISIS here or have I missed a configuration command somewhere? 

Even within the class-full boundaries or integer boundaries of prefix groups for example, comes after . 

Within a typical service provider environment I can see how broadcast and multicast storm control can be useful. I am confused regarding unicast storm control though. Reading the Cisco docs online they give examples such as protecting against port flooding if the destination MAC of an incoming frame isn't in the CAM tables. This makes good sense to me. So does only measure the pps rate (or bps rate) of frames that are for destinations not in the CAM tables, or all destinations that aren't a broadcast or multicast address (so just the total number of unicast frames)? I'm worried that configuring such a feature could shut a port down that shouldn't be shut down simply because it has a high pps rate. An example of this is ports with voice services attached that have high frame rates but are low bpp rates of unicast frames. Is this feature only measuring the frame/packet rate of unknown destination addresses or all unicast frames, what are the dangers here? 

I've a CPE connected to a 4506 switch. The interface is Up but I don't see traffic CPE MAC address on MAC sddes-table I've already replaced the cable, SFP and port. Now I've the minimal config (nothing i.e. switchport access) and no MAC yet. 

What I'm looking is a solution for the describe problem - How to define certain port as blocked ? What is the best practice on REP implementation. I read the official documentation and I'm still confuse on. If someone can share with me some document (other than the official) to better understanding, I will be grateful. 

NAT/PAT can be used to solve your problem, 60 host on few IP Address. For your deployment and if you don't need 1:1 translation, that's mean, many address can be translated in many address AKA many-to-many translation this could be a solution. For example, if you want to deploy such scenario, here the commands for a Cisco Device. 

The ME3600s don't support the forwarding of STP or MST frames through EVC. Port based PWE3s will transport STP frames but you will have to chew up a lot of ports. Really you should be engaging your vendor to platform specific questions like this that are "Will the switch support X feature" or "Does your switch forward X traffic". I suggest also habinga look at a feature backup pseudowires. That removes the loops at layer 2 at least although doesn't address your problem of no support for STP when using EVCs: $URL$ It maybe also be that VPLS is a better way to go if it is a small number of peers and traffic. The ME3600s do support VPLS (I suggest runnnig 15.3(3)S3 at the time of writting). Update Since I wrote this the command is now present to forward L2 PDUs in the EVC however I haven't tested this: