Have you tried with FileTypesMan from excelent Nirsoft? It's a small application that can allow you to set specific icon per file extension. I think it should be able to change the icon without messing with the default program. 

Solution with ImageMagick I've placed below my solution with ImageMagick, is pretty quick and simple but ofc requires the library installed. 

What can I do to be sure that "out of frame" content is not present once I export the pdf file? I want "out of frame" content cropped/trimmed/deleted, not clipped. 

Solution with ExifTool The best deal imo, with the command already coded in the file name of the .exe its totally a drag and drop script to use wherever you want! Update For convenience, I've slightly modified the inline file name of the exe to this 

As title goes, is there a script for Win 7 to get printed on a .txt file all the images (JPG, PNG, GIF ecc) inside a folder along with "filename" and "pixels dimension"? I've tried with on command line but only lists name, file size ecc.. 

I received a zip file from a Mac OS user with several hundred of .jpg files, some with very long names. Opening the .zip file wit 7-zip on my Win 7 machine, lots of these files have very weird characters; I guess they were encoded like this in the zipping process. Here is a sample 

I've exported a pdf file with some content framed from InDesign. The content is a linked/embeded file (most of the times other pdfs). If I resize the frame of the content I placed to the portion I desire, the "out of frame" content will still be "present" in the resulting exported pdf file. If I open the exported pdf file in Acrobat Pro or Illustrator, I can easely find that the content is clipped and not cropped as I want, this way I can completely remove the clipping path that correspond to the frame I've set in InDesign, recovering the entire content of the files I placed. This is quite a problematic situation for 2 facts primarly: 

Your path name with ~'s in it ("~ALL~") may not be ideal. An easy thing to try is to extract these files into C:\VB6mouse Run console as admin, and try again with a path that doesn't have any uncommon characters in it. Do you get the same error as above if you try from this new path of C:\VB6mouse? 

Type .LOG on the first line, and then press ENTER to move to the next line. Save the file. Each time you open it, it adds the time/date stamp. More info here: $URL$ 

To mess with times in V1 it uses milliseconds. (So 10 seconds = 10000) To mess with times in V2 it uses seconds. (240 = 240 seconds) I would never use this in production but if it is not that big of a deal, and it proves to work just fine 99% of the time, it might be good enough. 

You could just right-click on your Windows 7 Desktop, choose Gadgets, select the Clock to add it to the desktop, right-click on the clock and choose options, and give it a name like "US Eastern", or "Dusseldorf", and then pick the time zone you want the clock to dislpay from the list. You can add multiple clocks and configure each one to the time zone you need. 

You can create a custom Environment Variable and use that in the shortcut's path instead of hard coded version path. Use the %MYCUSTOMPORTABLEPATH% in the shortcut path itself instead. You can also keep part of the path fixed and just store the version in the Environment too. D:\PortableApp\%MYLATESTVERSIONNUMBER%\prog.exe Just like you can use %HOMEDRIVE%%HOMEPATH% in a shortcut path, you can also create your own vars. Just update your environment variable when you upgrade and the shortcut should point to new stuff. That said, having version-less paths may work fine too depending on your needs. 

64-bit Windows 8 has Hyper-V (virtualization) built-in. Hyper-V only works if the host machine is equipped with a 64-bit processor that supports a feature called Second Level Address Translation (SLAT). [SLAT may also be known as extended page tables (EPT), Rapid Virtualization Indexing (RVI) and nested page tables (NPT)]. Does the "Dell XPS One 27 Touch" PC with i7 processor released in Q4 2012 support SLAT so that you can use the Hyper-V feature built-in to Windows 8? ** Note: I should have mentioned that I do not have this system and can't personally check it. The processor in question does support SLAT/EPT because it has the i7-3700S processor. Still concerned about the potential BIOS/Setup dependency though at the overall system level. When looking through the owners manual for this machine I do NOT see a specific setting to enable SLAT/EPT (unless it is named yet again something else in the Dell setup screen). So I was hoping someone who has the machine could confirm Hyper-V actually works. 

I noticed a weird address in the Local Address column in the Network tab of Process Hacker in lots of program that work with internet connection (like chrome, firefox, dropbox, thunderbird etc..). The address in question is this one: hhbekxxw5d9e.pflexads.com. Most of these preocesses have the same adrress also in the Remote Address column. Some of these send and receive data over the network. I've tried scanning with Malwarebytes and Microsoft Security Essential, both with no results. I'm on Windows 7. My file is picked from $URL$ so luckly those requests are blocked, I'm no expert in these things and wondered what is producing this and if it's anything that should not be neglected. Any suggestions? UPDATE It uses small traffic, but it stacks up from time to time: starts with few bytes and then it goes for some KB. Fact that worried me most is that this address is in also 1password process and Teamviewer too. I'm no netowrk expert, but I've tried with Wireshark to filter the recordings with filters on what is listed on the Process Hacker network tab. Unfortunately the output of the filter is blank, wich is kinda odd to me since I can actively see reported in the network tab of Process Hacker that data is going for those processes through those ports. Am I blatantly missing something? 

The answer provided by Maximus is no longer valid for cmder 1.3+ You have to create a file (for ex. ) inside your cmder folder with your customized definition (source). Below my customization: 

Ok solution with ImageMagick, simple and quick (but ofc requires the library). Open the cmd line in the folder you are interested (Shift+RightClick inside your folder window and select "Open command window here"), then in the cmd prompt use this 

Not really an answer but a sort of "work around". Since the Host OS creating the zip file is a Mac I tried uploading this .zip on a Linux web server I manage, then I unpacked the zip, and the files were correctly named once extracted. So I repacked the files in zip and downloaded on my machine, now all files have the correct names. I'll just leave this here as a quick memorandum, I hope there are are other solutions more practical than this! 

If you choose to use a Local Account, you get a nice "clean" USERPROFILE path of: C:\Users\username If you then associate a Microsoft Account to that Local Account, will it maintain the original USERPROFILE path created above by the Local Account or will it try to CHANGE the USERPROFILE path to what it uses when using ONLY a Microsoft Account without a Local Account? Example - When adding an MS Account to Local Account will it try to change USERPROFILE: 

You can try to use $URL$ to create a script that activates Outlook window, sends keystrokes to send/receive, then minimizes Outlook window or something similar. Then, create a shortcut to this script, assign it a hotkey key combination in the shortcut, and push those keys to make this script run real fast and then get back out of your way. 

EtherPath® SS-1R Single Port Serial Server "Ethernet Modem" by DCB (Data Comm For Business, Inc.) $URL$ I have experience with these in the field (hundereds) for 6+ years and not one has ever failed. We have not used their "EtherModem" mode but if the quality of that holds up like everything else in this device then it is worth a look. I do not know or work for them, just a happy customer. 

Because it worked fine when you manually paused it, here is a temporary hack that you may be able to use until the "right" solution is found. Generally using "delays" and "timers" like this is NOT what you would do for mission critical things. That said, until a better answer is found, you can do this and see if it works: 

If you have Administrator access, one way to do it is to use a PowerShell script and run it with Task Scheduler. Typing that process with all the script code here is not something I can do right now but it already exists out there: First, create the PowerShell script that understands the names of your two network adapters by following these instructions: Hey, Scripting Guy! How Can I Enable or Disable My Network Adapter? Then, using Windows Task Scheduler, setup scheduled tasks that call the script with the desired parameters to enable and disable as needed: How do I set up a powershell script to run as a Scheduled Task in Windows? If you are willing to read those two posts and experiment, you should be able to get it to work.