Open Windows File Explorer and navigate to the location of your image Right click the image and choose Properties Click the Details tab at the top of the window Now scroll down towards the bottom and you'll see a GPS section with the latitude and longitude that your photo was geotagged with Now look up those coordinates on Google Maps or wherever else you prefer 

Now reopen SET and you will see there is no longer a message telling you a newer version is available. 

You don't need to install disk drivers. It's telling you that it could not detect a hard disk, and looking at the screenshot you provided it is clear why: you have not added a hard disk in your virtual machine settings. In your second screenshot where you have highlighted, click the little icon to the right of that; the rectangle one with the plus sign. In the next window choose and then follow the steps to create a hard disk size of your choosing. Save your settings and start up the Kali install again. You will now see the hard drive you just created as an option to install Kali onto. You don't install guest additions on the host OS. Guest additions are to be installed on each guest OS. So you install them on the Kali virtual machine after you successfully create it. 

The reason it is telling you there are invalid number of parameter is because you used the backslash on your option, which treats as a 3rd parameter instead of treating it as an option. The correct command should be: 

In some instances this is not possible due to a firewall blocking you, such as corporate environments. If installing using isn't an option you can download the tarball from pyinstaller.org and install it manually. The download comes as a gzipped tarball, so you'll need a program like 7zip to uncompress/extract it. Once you have 7zip install, navigate to the location you downloaded the pyinstaller tarball to and right-click it and scroll down to 7zip > Extract Files. This will create a folder with one more tarball inside. So again right-click that and scroll down to . This will create a folder called . Make note of the full path name to the folder and open a command prompt and change directories into that folder. From there run the following command: 

I assume you already uninstalled DriverPack Solution from your system and are now just needing to remove the system info changes it made to your system. (if you haven't already uninstalled DriverPack, do so before proceeding). I've never used DriverPack Solution myself and never intend to, but I'm assuming it has added some unwanted "manufacturer details" and probably a logo to your system info similar to the following: 

Now close regedit and you're done. Windows Explorer will no longer detect the folder's type and change the view. 

What you need to do to be able to access your drive in file explorer is to assign it a letter in Disk Management 

First try selecting the option. If does not recover any of your data, choose in order to salvage whatever data it is able to recover. 

You'll most likely have to reinstall Kali. Windows doesn't play nice when installing it on a system that already has another OS installed first. Normally when setting up a dual-boot system, you always want to install Windows first and then install Linux second. From PCWorld: 

Open Task Manager Go to the Details tab Hover your mouse somewhere in the thin horizontal bar at the top of the Details window pane where the columns are labeled (such as Name, PID, Status, User name, etc..) Right-click your mouse and choose Select Columns. In the new window that opens up scroll down towards the bottom and you'll see an unselected check box labeled Elevated. Check that box and click OK to close that window. Now your Details tab of Task Manager will be showing a new Elevated column. Look for an app that is launched and check to see if it is running with Elevated Privileges. 

As you can see in the screenshots, the installation path it is showing is only for ; this is not the folder path where the core components of an application get installed. The application itself will still be installed in folder regardless of which drive you choose as the installation path. It took some digging to find a source from Autodesk to confirm this. In the Autodesk forums a Product Support Specialists replies the following to someone asking about basically your same issue (although the forum discussion is about the 2015 version): 

Go to Tools Select Internet Options Go to the Advanced tab Scroll down to the bottom under Security Enable the Use TLS 1.0 checkbox Click Apply and now refresh Internet Explorer 

Open Right-click on the Healthy 50GB partition Choose Change Drive Letter and Paths.... In the next window that comes up, click on Add.. You will see that the Assign the following drive letter radio button is already selected To the right of that there is a drop down menu option to choose your new drive letter (or just leave it at whatever it defaults to) Click OK and you're done 

Right-click on any of the bigger files in that folder and select and then select and you'll see that it is one of the Windows lock screen wallpapers. 

4. Run the Chrome Cleanup Tool This step does not apply to OP's situation since they're on a Mac and the Chrome Cleanup Tool is only available for Windows systems, but it's still worth mentioning for other user's who may be experiencing a similar problem. 

Even though an SSD has no moving parts so there is not the same risk of physical damage as their is with a HDD, it is still not a good idea to force shutdown your PC with the power button. Windows is constantly reading and writing files in the background and without safely shutting down, you can interrupt this process and cause file corruption. Even worse, Windows could be making changes to the registry at the time of your force power off which will lead to incomplete or corrupted data in your registry. It's not to say that force powering off your PC will ruin it every time, and really more often than not it probably won't. But if it's something you do frequently, eventually you'll probably brick your system. Edit: You didn't mention your operating system but I wrote my answer assuming Windows. If you're using Linux or Mac, my answer doesn't really match those systems exactly. But it's still not a good idea to force power off those either 

You will need to change this setting in Group Policy Editor Click on Start Menu and type and hit Enter Go to User Configuration > Administrative Templates > Attachment Manager In the window pane on the right, find Do not preserve zone information in file attachments and double click it Select the Enabled radio button and then hit OK to exit out of that window Reboot your computer or log off Windows and log back in for changes to take effect 

Go to File > Templates > Manage Templates (or Ctrl + Shift + N In the new window that opens up, click on Import in the bottom right corner 

There's no way to give a definitive answer on this one. You might be getting different opinions from posting elsewhere because some people have tried it and it fried out their motherboard, while others did it and got lucky and never had any such failures. You're not posing an extra risk to your CPU. You are, however, posing some extra risk to your motherboard failing. It is rated to support up to 77W. Can it go a little over 77W without damaging it? Sure, most likely it can go a bit beyond the 77W it supports. Like with a lot of other things, the manufacturer will be somewhat conservative when listing a maximum support limit. Your processor will push it beyond it's supported limit. There's no telling how long your motherboard will run before frying out. And it may never fry out. I think the only thing that is safe to say is that using that processor with that motherboard will shorten the expected lifespan of the motherboard--maybe by a little, maybe by a lot, but there's no way to be sure right now. 

From the following Microsoft Support Article: "The size of the EMF spool file may become very large when you print a document that contains lots of raster data" 

exists as both a shell builtin (which is why returns that it is a shell builtin) and separately as a GNU Core Utility. The version of that your system is using is the GNU Core Utility version. It is a executable and as such sudo can be used to run it; unlike which is a shell builtin command. You can verify this for yourself. Type both these commands youself and observe the outcomes. (if there are multiple versions of the same command in your system the command will tell you which one is being invoked when you enter it) 

This brings up the About Windows dialog window and the second line shows the Version and Build number 

The Random Hardware Address feature has not been removed in the Creators Update. It can still be found by going to Start > Settings > Network & Internet > Wi-Fi 

TL;DR - Your PDF file didn't increase in size. It is only a large spool file that was created. It's nothing to worry about but Microsoft provides a solution listed above to prevent that situation from happening again (with a reduction of features). 

Edit: from your additional edit above it would appear as if that partition is currently hidden and needs to be manually set to an NTFS partition identifier. To manually change this in diskpart do the following: 

But in this case of a firewall blocking the pip install, you'll have to download and install pywin32 manually (pywin32 would have been automatically installed had you been able to install Pyinstaller the easy way with ). You can find the installation file for pywin32 at github.com/mhammond/pywin32/releases. Be sure download the correct version to match your version of python and the system's architecture. The installation for pywin32 is quick and straightforward. Now you're ready to compile your first Python script to an file. If Python is already added to your environment variables, you can run the following command from any directory to compile your script 

4. Navigate to where you have your templates stored and choose one of the template files 5. Click Open and you're done Edit: this was done on LibreOffice version 5.3.5.2 on openSUSE Leap 42.3. 

Open Control Panel Go to Administrative Tools Select Event Viewer Expand folder/icon that says Windows Logs Select Application log, right click it, and select Find Type to search for the chkdsk scan you just ran. Click Find Next. Click on the event in the right window pane that was found in the search. In the bottom window pane you will find the results of the chkdsk scan. Scroll down to see the results of the entire chkdsk session so you can see which files were damaged, repaired, etc