And you don't need iproute2 or mangle table. The order of the rules matter, so please them before a matching drop rule 

The issue is that, the shell asks for passphrase ? i don't know what is it! Am able to use this key using putty, but not from linux Am I missing something here? 

Seems you are missing the reverse dns zone, also add the the ip of the dns server in the resolve.conf file don't forget to allow the dns traffic in the firewall 

example: ifconfig eth0 192.168.1.1 netmask 255.255.255.0 add default gw, assuming the gateway is 192.168.1.254 

The above command will display list of available versions for this package. Then select the needed version and do the following. 

to make things easier and avoid any conflicts, You need to do the following: 1- Change the ip range of the new router to lets say 172.20.1.0/24 2- Add a new interface on the server. Assign it an ip of the router range. 

4- Use source natting instead of MASQUARGE which most probably you are using. to nat each group of ips to their specified internet connection. You need to go over the steps i have mentioned above, and search for further info, i took me over a week to make it working but now it takes only 5 mins to set up a new provider. 

Ok, so I realize what is happening here is the user calling the post-commit script isn't 'derek' so it hasn't permission. So my question is what user is calling the post-commit script. the svnserve daemon is run as derek ... I thought that would mean the post-commit command would be called as derek too but it seems not. Any ideas how I can find out what user is calling it and secondly what would be the best practice method to allow access for that user? I don't think adding it to the group would help because the group doesn't have the write access to the .svn directories by default. UPDATE: I've just found that www-data is the user that seems to be calling the script. Now naturally www-data can't run the svn command. 

The 3 machines in different hosting providers are all dedicated machines, one is a VPS, other two are on some cloud platform e.g. VMWare / Xen using some kind of clustered SAN for storage This might be a naive thing to do but here are the results I found. 

Assuming the table name is NewLink ip rule add from 172.20.1.2 table NewLink Use ip rule add add group of users to the new connection: 

You can specify only one GATEWAY, and if you added the GATEWAY in both interfaces files the GATEWAY of the higher interface number will be used as in your case eth1, which is correct from route -n you have displayed. If you want to use multiple GATEWAYS you have to use policy routing as suggested in the previous answer. 

To Achieve this you should use Policy Based Routing; Will allow you create separate independent routing tables, and direct traffic to any routing table based on packet properties like Source-IP. Create new routing table as follow: 

Change eth0 to the interface of the listening ip, or just for testing purpose stop the firewall with 

You can list all available versions of a package and install the desired one or latest: You need to do the following: 

As this will redirect all the traffic to the VPN tunnel, you might direct only the related subnets instead of this option. 

Ok, so first off what is the best way to read the figures and are there any issues with really comparing these numbers? Is this in any way a true representation of IO Speed? If not is there any way for me to test that? Note: these 3 machines are using either Ubuntu or Debian (I presume that doesn't really matter) 

if I run that command from the command line logged in as user 'derek' then it all works fine but when it runs as post-commit I get the following error in my log file: 

I've a Ubuntu webserver with Sendmail as my MTA Currently when i email outside my webserver's domain e.g. example.com to something like gmail or any other email outside the example.com domain it works perfectly. I don't want my sendmail daemon to recognize example.com as a local address I want it to send to example.com the same way any other email is sent. There will never be a case were i will use the local users on the webserver to collect these emails for example.com. So how can I disable local delivery? 

An internet provider installed us a microwave link: The issue is that: The ping from our side to the gateway is about 1-2 ms, which is great, but it remains like this for only 12 hours, then it start to give latency and time outs 100 - 800 ms. The provider changes only the channel and the ping reduces to 1-2 ms, i asked them after they changed the frequency channel to go back to the old channel to check if it's a noise issue or not, apparently as expected thing remained 1-2 ms. We have been in this case for two days. Any one has an idea of what could cause this issue ? or had this issue before. Thanks, 

You don't need to mark the packets, To do what are planing to you need the following in the server config file add the following: 

to convert the text to postscrit, The question is that is it possible to support arabic characters in postscript ?? i have checked this function in linux: 

Assuming your public interface is eth1 and local interface is eth0 2- Set natting the natting rule with: 

I have 2 straight forward websites I want to host. example1.com and example2.org This server was originally set up by someone else and example1.com works as expected. So my task is to add example2.org to the server. I create a basic index.html test page in C:\www\example2 add a virtual host record to httpd-vhosts.conf and for test purposes add a 127.0.0.1 example2.org to my hosts file so I can test locally. This all worked as expected and I can view example2.org which shows my test html file. The problem is... when the DNS propagated it shows the example1.com site when I go to example2.org from anywhere but the local windows server. I'm completely baffled as to why this is happening? Any ideas? At what point does apache read in outside connections differently to local ones? 

I've created my own deb package for Redis 2.6.11 instead of the very old default version for Ubuntu. All works well except when I do an it tries to install what it thinks is the latest version of How can tell the package manager to stick on my custom one and don't refer to default repository for this particular package? Ubuntu 12.04 

We are using Elastix as an eFax system, the issue is that when trying to send Arabic text it appeas as "????". The issue appears to be in converting the text to postscript, Elastix uses HylaFax as virtual Fax and Hylafax uses: 

Yes it's possible: you need to do the following: 1- Install openvpn server on the public instance. Configure the openvpn server to send routes or ip range of your private instance. 

Allow traffic from the VPN traffic to the Private instance, using iptables. 2- Create one or move vpn clients and enjoy your direct connection. If you need any details of the above i'll be glad to help. 

if you are using windows as client side, i would suggest to netlimiter software as it's easy to use, the tc is hard to configure specially in case of download as you would use polycer shaper. with netlimeter you can control upload and download speed easily, from the client side. 

just solved it, seems to be a routing issue, just marked the packets destined to that port the with ip-rules added them to the desired table.. 

So can you guys help me out with this. For bonus points if you can tell me how to do the next step which is import all databases in one command doing one at a time that would be great too. I really want to do these in two separate steps because I need to delete a few sql files manually from the tmp dir before I run the restore command. So I need: 1) command to copy all 2011-01-07 sql files to a tmp dir 2) command to import all those files in that dir into mysql I know its possible to do in one but for lots of reasons I really would prefer to do it in two steps. 

but my main repos don't seem to exist anymore. I know I need to upgrade to lenny but the docs recommend you update to latest etch first before doing a dist-upgrade. Where can I find the latest etch source? 

I've an webserver that is still debian etch. My problem is I need to upgrade some packages but I can't find a source for debian etch anywhere. I have the following: