I don't think this will work. From what I can gather, the SD card consists of a single FAT partition, which is synced with the cloud when you take a photo, ie you can't flash a OS onto it and it doesn't allow arbitrary WiFi traffic. 

According to the wiki, I2C is exposed on pins 3 (SDA) and 5 (SCL). Using from Python on Debian (Untested) Based on reading this forum post. Run 

Cross-compilation is the process of compiling code for use on one platform on another platform. For example, you can compile software for the Raspberry Pi on a desktop (x86). In your case, you want to compile software for the Raspberry Pi on the Raspberry Pi - this is normal. Just install and use it as you would on a normal computer. It will default to the same architecture on which it is run. is a C compiler. is a C++ compiler. 

Limited Beta The board is currently in limited beta, but it deserves to be mentioned as a well thought out clone, which has been announced by a group with previous form. References 

Throwing my hat into the ring... I think it is a dodgy fuse. Dodgy Fuse You need to take at least 2 measurements to confirm or deny this. Please measure (have fun...) 

It's fine It's shutting down just fine. If you check the schematic, you'll see there is no power management. From USB in to the SoC is just copper (and a fuse), so the chip stays powered up even when it's shut down. What do I do once I have run ? Just remove the USB from the socket. 

You can't power a USB hard drive on the RPi, as the outputs are restricted to 140mA. Consider an externally powered hard drive. 

Asterisk Asterisk is an open source PBX. Someone has a blog with a Debian image on which Asterisk is installed. There is also some evidence on the forums it is working. 

As of writing, this is not possible. The Remix's Wiki says that you can download the image from the Foundation's website. However, it has been removed since the original image was buggy, with the recommendation that you use the Debian image instead. 

You want a HDMI Type A to HDMI Type A; they are the most common cable used to connect DVD players to TVs. Any type of cable should do. If you want to watch high-quality video and listen to high-quality audio, it's worth spending a little more on the cable. For example, gold connectors will the contact between the cable and the connectors on the RPi or the TV. If you are just using the console, a cheaper cable with probably be fine. Automotive cables will be extensively tested for extreme conditions, such as low/high temperatures; they are unnecessary for every day use. 

@itzikb I think you put wrong address meanwhile in changing IP address process. as @ghost said, your router subnet is incorrect for your device. You have to change your configuration. look at this link might give you answer of your solution. 

Actually I have many Raspberry PI 3 Model B and I am able to find Serial Number of my Raspberry PI using Python script. But I can't able to send data from Cloud to specific Raspberry PI using it's Serial Number. Is there any way to send data from another device to Raspberry PI using Raspberry PI's Serial Number ? Any Suggestions/Links would be Thankful. 

Anyhow you have to connect your Pi to Internet. In other word we can say yo have to do Port Forwarding on your Router or else your friend's router, if he wants to proxy for you. you can check any Free domain name services (like noip or DynDns) in beginning. If it's work perfectly then you can buy cheap package from other DNS. you can make Free account in free DNS(that i provide two references above), and configure hostname as per your requirement. now you can active new DNS service in your Router with DNS provider, Username, Password and your hostname and Port Forwarding(in your case port 80, HTTP Service). That's it. Now you can access your webpage from anywhere with just type of your hostname in browser. Enjoy :) 

I am trying to control my Android Device using Rpi3(using command line) via Bluetooth. I am able to pair my device with Rpi3 and can also send data(images & files) via Bluetooth. But I don't have idea how to pass some command to control Android Device(like volume up/down, turn on/off Wi-Fi or torn on/off mobile data) using command line. Every help should be appreciated. Thanks in Advance. 

I want to access my Rpi3 from anywhere. For that i have created an Free account on noip.com. I have a my Hostname too. I am using O2 Router at home, and also setup for DynDNS as well as Port Forwarding. But once I configure my Hostname with port, that i open in Router, noip.com says Port is not open, we can't connect. I tried with different port and finally i got one open port(port 22). With port 22 i can successfully configure my hostname. So now my Problem is : 

Thanks in Advance for your Suggestions and Helps. Actually, I am software Engineer and beginner in Communication Part, So if you can't understand Actual Task/Situation(it's my bad), then please let me know. I explain a Task in more detail so hopefully you understand well. 

is the first partition of the SD card. is the block device of the SD card itself. Personally, I'd kick up to . 

The process is pretty simple. Download the image First, go to the Raspberry Pi Foundation's Download page and download the image you want. I suggest the Debian Squeeze image if you are an absolute beginner, but watch out for the Raspbian image soon as it should run faster. The Arch Linux image is great if you want a minimal install or if you've had a bit of experience with Linux before. Verify the Download The Raspberry Pi Foundaton provide the SHA-1 hash of the download, which we can use to verify the file was downloaded correctly and wasn't tampered with on the way. Windows You can use a utility provided by Microsoft called fciv or another provided by Frozen Logic called Summer Properties. Linux 

You have to evaluate your particular use case. Normally, you would mount a filesystem in RAM for speed. 

I'd love to run Asterisk on my Raspberry Pi. Does anyone know how I could connect to the telephone network? Obviously, PCI based cards aren't going to work. 

To install SRAM, I would suggest using an I2C/SPI module (example, instead of using the GPIO lines. Although potentially slower, it means you have the other GPIO lines for other things and your SRAM can be quite large. There is a big disadvantage to using SRAM though. Suppose you store some really valuable information on your RPi and I'm really mean. Suppose I could hack into your RPi and run arbitrary code, then I could retrieve your key from the SRAM, which is required to decrypt the data. This is a security risk. Alternatively, you could use a AVR/PIC coprocessor, which you communicate which over I2C/SPI/UART. Instead of doing the encryption/decryption on the RPi, you would send your data to the coprocessor and ensure that there is no instruction for sending the key to your RPi. There can, however, be an instruction for generating a new key, and of course, you could have several keys stored on the coprocessor. This could make a cool little project. 

tells us it was compiled for x86. Do Adobe release an ARM version of Flash? Yes and no. There are versions available for a lot of Mobile platforms, but I believe it is being deprecated (citation needed) and I haven't seen it available for ARM Linux. (citation needed) 

I have just ordered my Raspberry Pi, and I want to prepare my SD card. How do I install an OS image onto an SD card? 

The shell used is ; a POSIX-compliant shell, which is designed to be much smaller and more stable than . One could argue that you should be writing jobs to be POSIX-compliant. Alternatively, try encapsulating your logic into a script and prepending the shebang