One of the best and cheapest ways to improve performance on a PC is to increase the RAM. I would try installing 2 GB of RAM and see if that helps at all. If not, I would suggest backing up your data as soon as you can and get a new hard drive. As Ramhound said, it is also very likely your HDD is failing. Also, you could try running Disk Defragmentor which comes with Windows systems. This will rearrange the data on the HDD closer together to improve performance. 

Here is my current recording setup. I run a mic and a guitar line into an Alesis Multimix 6 mixer and from there, a USB goes into a Sound Blaster Recon 3D Fatal1ty sound card. I am using Audacity to record. My problem is that whenever I record, the sound quality is very poor and very low. Whenever I turn up the volume either on the PC itself or on the mixer, I get fairly bad distortion and feedback. Is there any way to improve this sound quality? I am running Windows 7. I have read that a pre-amp could help, but I would like to refrain from buying any more stuff. Are there any other devices or tips that could improve my sound quality? I also read that the signal in the USB cable could feedback to the mixer causing the distortion/feedback. I don't believe it's the sound-card or Audacity because I tried using the microphone that came with the soundcard and I got better sound quality than with the mixer. The only reason why I want to use the mixer is because I want to be able to control the guitar and the microphone levels separately. Oh, and I am using a Taylor 214ce guitar and a Shure SM58 microphone. 

it doesn't tell an error, but growlnotify's message is empty, so didn't work. but if I execute from bash manually it works a s planned. 

Delete the /var/www/index.html (where there is the redirect advice for the browser) AND clear browser cache/use another browser (I checked it with iPad and found that Chrome used the cache, where there was the page with redirect advice [http 302]). 

How to prevent the hosts behind from sending arp to the , but using the routing instead? So that a.b.c.129 would be accessible only over IP level 3, not directly? So how to isolate the second, third ... hosts from sending arp to the? Update 2: I have the following in the : 

How can I manually check for an email from the command line? How can I force postfix to receive/update emails? The email from gmail takes 8 minutes till it will be received by postfix. How can I reduce the time? Update: postfix is a part of iRedMail distr on the host with public IP, no NAT is used. Sometimes I get the email immediate, sometimes up to 30 min. Does the Postfix get the notification about email from another MTA (say gmail) to accept the email? 

I have a dedicated server. I could only install a Debian. It was installed as hidden automated process. I would like now to use LVM and actually partition whole disk with another scheme. Is it possible and a good idea to do it in already installed Debian or is it better to install a new Debian with a debootstrap and then make LVM and partitions? The problem with debootstrap is - all the tutorials saying that I need to partition the disk with new scheme (so is it possible to do it from already installed Debian on that disk?) 

If you want to hide a file in Windows 7 and you are the administrator, right click on the file or folder. Then click on the properties option. Under the general tab, there will be an attributes section. Check the box that says "Hidden". If it is a folder you are hiding, it will ask if you want to hide folders and sub-directories. Make the appropriate choice that you want. EDIT: You can also use third party tools to hide files like FileLocker or FolderLock. There is also a method of using the file extensions to hide the file here, but I have never tried it, so I am not sure how effective it is. 

I currently have Windows 7 installed on my PC. However, I just tried out Ubuntu via booting from a disc and I love it. I want to install it onto my HDD, but I don't want to get rid of Windows 7. I know HOW to do this, but I am a little unsure what the consequences might be. What does it mean to install Ubuntu alongside Windows? Do they share the same resources? Also, I have my HDD already partitioned into two sections, a 70 GB section where Windows is installed and then another 400 GB section where all my data is stored. There is currently 26 GB free on the 70GB partition. I know Ubuntu doesn't take up much space. However, if I install Ubuntu in that space, will I still be able to install programs on Windows in the future? My main concern is that I am going to short-change my hard drive space for future installations. EDIT: I guess another big question I have is if I install a program on one OS, will the other be able to use it? 

only my Backup setting was saved: on checking the stored configuration, the Data/Log settings had reverted to Program Files: 

I fixed it by changing the BIOS setting. The naming or menu details may be different in your BIOS, but here's the story in my case. Under the Advanced settings, go to Advanced Chipset Configuration: 

No, you're supposed to run its setup program. Windows will take care of where the files live. You just run its setup to install it, then run it from Start. 

I've searched and found reports of similar messages in various scenarios and Windows versions, but not a simple unexplained shutdown like this. Why is it doing this, and how can I stop it? 

Using ALT+TAB, the "Windows Product Activation" dialog can be made active and will then receive keyboard input. 

Your notification will reappear eventually, but it may not be today, or tomorrow, or the next day... I came across this announcement today when I viewed this old Windows 8 forum post, and I dare say it is showing in various other places: 

Note: even if you've used SFC before, do refer to the link as it includes some useful additional info about the SFC log, and actions you can take if SFC says it found a corrupted file but couldn't fix it. 

So my question is: how can we script a change of mouse pointer speed that actually changes mouse behaviour immediately? 

To prevent Windows from adding the word "shortcut" to shortcut names, I've always set the value to in the following registry key: 

You shouldn't have to do anything in the BIOS etc—it should just work. And your board does support up to 8GB of RAM. Try removing and reseating the memory, to make sure it has connected properly. If that doesn't help, and the memory is of the correct type, one of the 4GB modules you have installed may be defective. Try with one module at a time, to establish whether they both work. 

If I mount a time capsule disk (or another AFP, SMB network resource) and look on it with it appears as , so rsync can't access it (even with sudo). How to mount a network resource different than (e.g. )? I'm on OSX (but I would like to know how to reach it generally on unix systems) 

So the $URL$ is forwarded to $URL$ Other subdomains are not configured. But somehow $URL$ and $URL$ are redirected to $URL$ and $URL$ $URL$ are not redirected. Why it looks like there are no server_name setting in nginx config? I would like to have many subdomains on my nginx server 

The GW is a.b.c.133 (which is in the /27 network with its gateway a.b.c.129) I statically added an arp route: 

I did , , mount of , but when I try to run or it simply doesn't find any command. I see many tutorials, but they assume I have passwd and chroot. But I have not? Where are they? I have the $PATH normally configured. 

If you give somebody your USB drive to put files on it, it is so annoying to clean up afterwards, all these useless for other than OSX platforms artifacts, which pollute the disk. Is it any solution to prevent this behavior. Maybe to write those files on your own and set them as read only something like "6/700" permissions? P.S. I'm not asking what to do on OSX by others, since I don't know who will put me a new file next time (I can't explain this problem and any configurations to all other people), but rather what to do from the USB drive point of view.