We are using pfSense as Openvpn server / clients. We are have around 20 site to site pfSense clients which connects to main site using Openvpn site to site configuration. On main pfSense (vpn server) we did install multiple wans and we have setup failover site to site connection, by setting server to listen localhost and port forwards vpn ports from multiple wans to 127.0.0.1. On the clients in Custom options we added: 

This scenario working OK for us when main link goes down clients established new connection over alternative WAN. What we do not know is: How to push clients to switch back (reconnect) to main WAN after main WAN connection get up again ? (Our workaround is now to restart Openvpn client or sometimes to restart whole pfSense to push vpn clients to connect again to main WAN, or to "kill" alternative WAN to push VPN clients to reconnect to main. All of them seems for me is bad way to do that). We will also love to see which of clients is connected to alternate WAN. Now workaround is to go on each vpn client pfsense and to read remote host address on vpn status of client. We are using Zabbix to monitor our network infrastructure, and we will love to try figure which wan is used for connection in some API way so we can at least trigger error on Zabbix and tell admins to reconnect client to main WAN. 

I have freeBSD router and it host public IP address, I am using ipnat.rules to configure port forwarding prom public network inside my private network. Now I wondering can I restrict only specific public IP addresses to can pass trough my port forwarding. What I want is to only my specific public IP addresses can walk inside my network on specific ports. Here is how now look like my ipnat.rules file 

Which VOIP system are You using ? I had similar problem with Elastix/Asterisk/FreePBX BOX. After edditing NAT settings at: UnembedFreePBX / Tools / Asterisk SIP Settings i get worked Try playing with this $URL$ 

How many current users can accept FreBSD, I am using it for about 30 current users, whit no any problems. Maybe pfSenes distro can offer You faster way to implement OpenVPN or PPTP VPN 

When You receive .dbx file You can do a trick, Firs Make Folder in application with same name as it was at your freind and as is name of file After that exit from outlook and overwrite file created by outlook with file from your firend To find location of existing dbx files go to tools/options tab maintenance and button "store folder" Then copy the given path to address bar into windows explorer 

Maybe you can take a look of BzgTracker.NET open source project for handling a Bugs. But it easily can be fit in many types of environment. Some of features are: 

I use WinMobile device and What I fund useful is free Putty tool for SSH connection, Whit putty I can made SSH connection to lot of routers which I admin. After that I can use a lot of network tools which is already build in routers. 

I am trying to configure asterisk PBX behind my FreeBSD router. To allow other sip clients to call I need to forward ports to my local network asterisk machine. I did it for 5060 and 5061 ports using ipnat and configuring ipnat.rules 

Mostly of days I wake up before sun goes up an do a morning pray after that drinking tea while checking online weather to make decide what device should I use to came at work (motorbike or car). Usually when came earlier then 7 o'clock I need explain myself to boys at security why I came first and how I can maintenance servers only while nobody is online (re index tables on SQL and do some custom DATAMINING tasks). After that I drink coffee staring at my paper notebook marking with pen impormatn tasks. and said to my self "Where Do You Wont Go Today". I really miss that sentence since in today IE. 

There is great implementation of PuttY for Symbian S60 devices, and last versions of Nokia phones with full QWERTY keyboard offers comfort for using Putty and SSH goodies. I start wondering is there a way to access MSSQL over SSH and send T-SQL commands. I am able to connect my router which running on FreeBSD OS, also other CentOS server with MYSQL are able to me over SSH. I want to try access MS-SQL-2005 from my mobile phone, Probably this is not going to have daily use, it is just for geeky and justification to myself: why I had to buy so expensive a toy 

Here is very fast (lessTested) version of C# code, You mentioned a python, this is not that unfortunately You can try convert to python. Or if someone can explain how this can be run in powershell. 

We have installed and ruining MS SQL Report Server on WINSERV2003 and users access reports thought IE, recently I have more and more troubles making them able to print. I know it is problem with one of MS updates (KB956803 KB956931), But lately and method for uninstalling this two update does not help to IE start printing. Probably one of thees are integrated to service pack three. My question is: What I do need to do on server side to update server and avoid problem with installing ActiveX control on users IEs ? Will after that those users which now able to print is going to have trouble? Thank you in advance Admir 

Is there any better solution than ping -t for monitor status of some VPN clients. I have set up FreeBSD router with fix public IP address for accepting incoming PPTP VPN connections. The callers are some simple routers with ADSL connections and dynamic IP address. When VPN caller get connection it got local IP adders which I can ping from my windows work station and also from FreeBSD router, IP addresses are always same for specif caller ID. Now I want to monitor what happening with callers, Are they connected, to get notification when some host is unreachable and to have log when they are connected and when they had gode, for how long they are connected and things like that. So i can debug my VPN callers and see why some one of callers losing they connections and for how long they are not attented to I can ping them. 

How to configure FreeBSD to redirect all DNS requests to other DNS. We have set up FreeBSD as router for our company. We have two cards, one for lan and second for WAN whic is configured as Public static IP adress. What I want to do is: When some client inside our network 192.168.0.1/32 call DNS request to our old DNS server, FreeBSD is going to forward that request to other one DNS server. Is that possible ? Where I need to put that rule ? 

You can go to "Computer Managment" and under to system tools you have Shared Folder, Tere You can see some basic information. To open Compute Managment on icon MY Computer right click and chose Manage 

You can try open shared folder using ip address instead of computer name, \\IP_Aadres\SherdFolder Where is Ip_adress of inforamt like 192.186.0.1 

Ill try to give a point, Maybe I am a wrong let others say if this is not regular way Can You set up transactional replication to NEW server and publish and subscribe databases, so you get both databases running constantly in lag of smaller then few seconds. After that you close connection to your old database from clients and wait few seconds. Disable replication and start use new datbase 

Gmail from Google also have great integration with other POP3 servers, but also got many benefits like, addons for mozila or IE so it can work faster a great amount of space and also mobile version and others 

I recently found that TS got problems with connecting when Advantage Validation Tool is not installed properly, Just guesting You may check that part of software on yours WIN2K ore they get automatic updates which is locked system because problems with WGAs 

Maybe you can just try to Shrink them. MS Sql allows to Shirnk Files and Databases also. In SQLMGM studio right click on database and inside tasks you should have option Shirnk. Choice Database and see will it fit your needs for Free space. alt text $URL$ 

It is standard story, there is fight between developers and administrators. One denunciation that database design and queries are bad while others says It is lack of hardware and amount of data. So I am asking You is my IBM x3400 with 2 xenons 2GHz and SCSI raid 5 and 4GB of RAM adequately shaped for MSSQL database of 53 GB with tables main details is around 6,5 million of records in details and 2 million in headers of documents while others is around 100K (such as items). We are constantly suffering with lack of performance while getting data from SQL, this server is only dedicated to be only SQL server and act as subscriber of Replicated data from other SQL server. Other question is How does database administrators planing size of hardware for DataBase servers ? Is there some standard approach or it is just experience and sense ? 

Ill answer to my questions just to broaden horizons for those with similar problems. I am contacted my ISP and asked them to try solving my problems. What they had offered me is another public IP address just for server, Now I have local traffic on the WAN side of FreeBSD and We made specific pipes for faster throughput fol local traffic to public IP of Server 

But I do not know how I can redirect UDP port range from 60000 to 610000 and also port range UDP Port 10000 - 20000 

Is there any good solution to make Mozilla Firefox display well and work alright with SQL Reporting Serives web application, I am tired of bugs and stacks produced by IE and theri last versions. The most annoying thing is size of displayed report in Mozilla is very small and printing control is disabled, I know that is i connection with ActiveX controls that cames with reporting services but I still hoping that maybe I can set Mozilla to worrk fine. Maybe I also should ask this question on SO to try find a programmers side of story because all of report on my server is mine, So if some one has solution to make things right in code please let me know 

We are planing to invest in new software for our factory. Targeting application is standard users application for handling data of goods (bills, finances, accounting management, goods, simple manufacturing with human inputs of data). One of our partner whit the highest chance for getting job, have pretty good application, most of things are looks good. One disadvantage of their system is, that they supporting their application for distance users only to use over Remote Deskotp Connection. Our factory (storehouse, production and few operates) and We (administration, head office) are separated by 1mb DSL line. Data handling is about 40 vs 60 % widespread between these two offices. Should I get away from appl like that? Should I accept RDC as way of communicating distance clients with Main server? Should I insist to they change that? I have experience with Remote Desktop Server with more than 3 years but for me that era is over. I know a lot of pros an cons of using RDS, but I do not know is that way for connecting is obsolete. When now is Client - Server applications is something that all We accepting when buying something new 

What is the easiest way to block changing the Time and Date settings on desktop workstations running Windows XP? 

Considering this scenario, At coffee bar you order the drink and get bill for that, On bill there is key for Wi-Fi network which is going to be valid for next X hours. I want to try realize something like that. Where to start looking, Does PfSense have that in box ? Should I left wireless network open and do authorization on internal site for allowing go users to go out ? I am confused How I can pull or generate KEY pragmatically by C# (.NET) (that is language I know). 

I apologize for reopening this and answering 3 years after. I have almost same issue on pf ver 2.3.2-RELEASE-p1 After hours of googling I fund this. $URL$ Sometime gateways do not want to response to ping. If your gateway working but dashboard still shows that is offline you can try to change advanced settings on gateway for Data Payload.(Define data payload to send on ICMP packets to gateway monitor IP.) 

Open SOURCE (Free) Easy to set up and run Email integration for opening NEW Bugs and Reporting (with also open source client) Nice and easy to understand API for opening new bugs Built in Query tools for advanced reporting SVN integration Attachment in the posts, prepared BUGS for printing, export to EXCEL and many others