Close Akaimi Download Manager and reopen it by right-clicking its icon and clicking "Run as Administrator." That should iron out any kinks in permissions. 

I doubt the hard drive's squeaking is contributing to the artifacts you're seeing (though it should definitely still be checked out--each "squeak" is likely the needle bearing down too hard into the drive, ruining bits). The artifacts you are seeing are commonly caused by two sources: 

A quick Google brings up a blog post describing a possible solution to a similar problem if you are using a Lenovo Laptop. Try disabling IPS Core Service, a process apparently used by Lenovo in their laptops (see comments on that link). To disable the service, first kill it in the task manager, and then run msconfig from your command prompt, go to the Services tab, and disable IPS Core Service. You may need to reboot before the problem will be fixed. 

Moved the index file to my larger HDD. Decreased the size of the pagefile. Cut down on space used for restore points. 

I have been working on putting together a build for my next computer, one one of the items I would like to include is an OCZ Vertex Series 30GB SSD. My build will be using DDR2 RAM, but while deciding on parts, an interesting thought struck me. As the SSD is to be used solely as a boot drive, and because SSDs have such impressive read/write times, is there any pressing need to buy enough RAM that my computer will not often need to access the pagefile? What would the difference in speed be between reading/writing from this SSD and PC2-8500 RAM? Considering that I have a tight budget, would it be worth saving $50 by buying 1x2GB as opposed to 2x2GB? 

It is possible to use a graphics card that does not match your current graphics card for a third display. The process is as simple as popping the card in and plugging the third display into it. What you cannot do with non-matched graphics cards is SLI, which uses multiple graphics cards to render a single display. 

The culprit could also be Superfetch, which may be caching images of the app's memory usage on your HDDs in a silly attempt to speed up boot time. Try disabling it. 

1) Molex cables are used by fans in many cases. 3) Many newer graphics cards require those PCI-e cables. I've yet to see any other hardware that uses them, but I believe they are only compatible with PCI-e hardware that expressly supports them. 4) Some motherboards require these to power the CPU. 5) This has the same purpose. Newer motherboards will use these as opposed to the 4 pin ATX 12v wire. If you don't have anywhere to plug these cords into, don't worry about them--if there's not a hole for it, the motherboard doesn't need it. 

Inadequate power. If your new hard drive draws more power than your old one, your PSU might not be getting enough power to your graphics card. (More likely) Overheating. While it is odd that you haven't experienced this probelm int he past, artifacts such as these are very common indicators that your graphics card is overheating. Grab a monitoring app such as HWMonitor and compare the temperature of your graphics card to its manufacturer's listed operation max. 

I am currently running x64 Windows 7 off of a 30 GB SSD with both the OS and my applications (other than games) installed on it, (with a larger drive supplementing it for media and other storage) and I haven't found myself choked for space. However, I have done a few things to save disk space. 

This text box is used as a quick method of searching your contacts. Type in the first few letters of a contact's name and they will automatically be highlighted in your Buddy List. Press enter to open a new IM tab with them. 

When viewing an individual artist, click on the header for the Album column and it will cycle through a few album organization options, one of them being Album By Year. Unfortunately, this doesn't seem to be a permanent solution, as iTunes tends to default back to Album By Name when you reopen the program. 

(Though the question was asked six months ago, the following answer may be relevant to any future users with similar issues.) The activity described in this question is often caused by removing a jump drive from a computer while one or more of the files are being accessed--in other words, removing it without ejecting the jump drive. It is sometimes possible to restore the files simply by plugging the jump drive back into the computer you were previously using it with if that computer hasn't been logged out, shut down, etc since you used it. (Be sure to properly eject it!) While this is by no means a failsafe way to recover your files, it is the simplest and should be the first step you take. 

Based on the very limited information you provided in your question, I would assume the culprit to be some form of malware. Many viruses and other malware prevent you from accessing sites with security updates or antivirus utilities, such as Norton Antivirus. If that is indeed the problem, a reformat and reinstall would probably be the easiest way to solve the problem, but if you would like to go head to head with the malware, Jeff Atwood's blog post on the subject could give you a good starting point. 

Have you tried logging out and logging back in or rebooting? It seems to occur (or at the very least, I can replicate it) only after using Shift+Click to select multiple icons on the desktop. Logging out and logging back in (or restarting explorer) seems to stop this behavior from happening. 

Increasing your RAM to at least 2GB will have a significant impact on your performance, but if you are aiming to increase game performance, you'll find your graphics card to be the primary factor. I would suggest upgrading your graphics card as well as your RAM. (I've personally had excellent experience with the 250 GTS. 

While the difference between standard definition and high definition is pronounced, even on a tube TV (assuming that it supports HD as it supports component input), with your configuration, you will not be able to output at a resolution higher than 480p (640x480). S-video is limited to 480p, and an adapter for it will simply upscale the image to 720p/1080p which may or may not increase the quality of the image, but, especially on a tube TV, could cause the image to appear slightly sharper and blockier. Your desktop would still be stuck at 640x480, however. The difference then, in your case, is effectively 480i vs 480p. 480p will have a slightly crisper look, but on a tube TV, the difference will not be as pronounced as the difference between 480i and 1080p. 

Because the two laser toners have that specific bit of plastic preventing their use in other models, there is likely a difference between them. They may, for example, carry different ink or expel ink in a different manner. They may simply not interface the same way with the printer. If you have nothing else to use the cartridge that you are thinking about breaking for, then I would say to go ahead and try it, but know that there is at least a 50/50 chance it will not work. 

Under the Advanced Tab in iTune's preferences, you can change the location of your iTunes folder. Doing so should cause iTunes to find your media library in its new location. 

Of course, the amount of benefit this setup has to you will depend largely on what applications you wish to install. Office 2007 is the only application I have installed so far larger than one or two hundred megabytes, so if you've got a larger need for space for your applications, you may want to pick a different investment path. Additionally, under the settings described above, my Windows installation occupies around 15 GB of the SSD. 

The simplest and most cost effective route you can take to minimize wrist pain until the pain subsides is to switch which hand you are using the mouse with. Switching from one hand to the other may feel a bit awkward at first, but it will immediately take all the strain of using your other hand off and allow it time to recover. I personally have been using my mice ambidextrously for a number of years, and while there is a large divide between my writing skill with either hand, I can use the mouse equally as well in my left and right hands. As other posters have mentioned, you should be aware that you have likely developed RSI and should speak to a doctor about the issue as well as integrate some ergonomics into your workstation. If you haven't set up your workstation as follows already, I would suggest keeping the mouse just above your lap--the keyboard tray is a great location for it if you desk has one. This will put your arms and wrists in the most natural position possible for using the mouse. You may also be interested in looking into alternative mice, such as trackballs, which have less strain on the wrist because only the fingertips move during operation. 

In the past (but not with that specific keyboard), I have been successful in removing keys by pressing down on the top end of the key while prying up the bottom end. Care must be taken to ensure that the scissor mechanism (which I believe is what the link in the other answer is referring to when he says wires) underneath are not broken during this process, but nothing short of having a steady and consistent hand can guarantee this. 

The problem might be that restricted drivers necessary for your graphics card are not enabled. Go to System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers and see if there are any restricted drivers available for your graphics card. If so, enable them, reboot, and you should be able to use desktop effects. 

It is also possible that this problem is caused by overheating. While computers generally turn off when they overheat, I have seen one that freezes and exhibits the same symptoms you are describing. I would suggest grabbing CoreTemp and keeping an eye on it as you attempt to replicate the issue if John T's answer doesn't help. 

I typically clean any LCD displays I have with a slightly damp microfiber cloth. You'll definitely want to use something soft--I've seen quotes online that say nothing rougher than a t-shirt. I have used Windex before as well, but I noticed slight discoloration on my monitor for several minutes (after which the effect faded). 

I am not sure what their policies are today, but the Dell laptop I ordered a little over two years ago included Lojack on a separate CD rather than pre-installed. 

Opening Chrome's task manager Ending the Flash plugin's process Refreshing a page with Flash content. 

I have had similar issues connecting/disconnecting a USB device that had damaged circuitry within it. In my case, it was a TV Tuner that had been sitting in my closet for years and was killed by attempting to use a power cord of the wrong amperage and voltage. Is it possible that something similar could be going on inside your mouse adapter? 

Do other burned CDs work in your car? Some older stereos tend to reject CD-Rs or CD-RWs. Additionally, check out The Red Book Audio CD standards. If your CD breaks any of the five specifications listed there, it may not play in your typical CD player. 

Dual-booting will provide you with faster Linux than a true virtual solution (which Cygwin is not) because you will be dedicating your computer's entire processing power, etc to it. However, you will have to put up with the time it takes to shut down one operating system and boot the other whenever you need to switch. Running Linux in a virtual machine (such as VirtualBox) will typically result in fewer issues simply because your hardware will be emulated so you will not likely have any driver incompatibilities. You do not need any special hardware to dual-boot, but I would recommend searching for the computer you are thinking about in the context of Linux issues to see if there are any common issues with it. Even brands that (at least in my experience) provide decent enough Linux support (in my case, Toshiba), you could still end up wit a laptop whose ACPI won't work with Linux, effectively preventing you from using it as a laptop. As @houbysoft mentioned, partitioning (meaning breaking up one drive into two segments that will appear as different drives on your computer) is the most common option for dual-booting, but the Wubi Installer for Ubuntu provides an effective alternative by creating virtual partitions on your disk. It also uses the Windows Boot Manager rather than the GRUB Menu that most distributions default to. 

While I can't say that I have tried saving an incomplete form in this manner, I will say that the vast majority of pdf forms such as this are designed not to be saved, and many that I have filled out have included a warning that it would not be possible to save the edited portions of them. I thus do not believe that it is possible to save a copy of the form and have it retain its editability. Some further googling has turned up this PDF stating that while Acrobat can save these forms, Acrobat Reader cannot. In addition, I found some shareware applications designed for this purpose, but none that I have found support Linux.