Try using game engines such as the : Unity ($URL$ (Battlestar Galactica) Unreal engine. ($URL$ (Mass Effect, Tera) CryEngine www.mycryengine.com/ (Far Cry) . Both are multi platform game engines which come with a complete compiler and an advanced toolset. With these you do not have to worry about writing scripts for a particular OS. If you make an app for Iphone, it will have a different touchscreen UI (user interface) from the same app distributed for a PC with a mouse controller. When it comes to unity you also have access to a large library of complete game objects that are ready to be implemented in your game. And remember one important thing - Don't write engines that are already written. Because unless you want to join some large company and help developing a game engine you will have no chance to create an UP-TO-DATE GAME ENGINE, most likely you will end up with something compared to quake engine. But you will learn a lot. 

I have been learning how to use Blender on CGcookie, that is why I will recommend you the page - $URL$ It gives you tutorials on 3DS MAX and Blender which is similar to Maya (there is a Maya Mode), and its definitely worth getting the premium access (I learned a lot there). + its only ~ $30 for 90 days I am not saying that open source is always better (its definitely cheaper) but in your situation I'd also give Blender a try, you will probably love it! On the website. They have many videos + resources (models from the tutorial, textures etc.) I'd also suggest that you visit the official Autodesk tutorial page $URL$ And definitely go to one of these :) $URL$ $URL$ Goog luck in your training! 

A recent project, Torment: Tides of Numenera, has beaten the fund record gaining over 4 milion dollars for their product development. $URL$ 

Giving it away for free to a SMALL(ER) ammount of people. Using the Redeem code option over on the Appstore, you can give payed versions of the game for free. But it will work slower / have effect on a smaller group of people, I'd go with another technique which is widely used. Distribute it and do the following: Add a pop up - Rate us after 15+ minutes of playing. 1) 

You could go with any other point system. And say that the player passes the level once he gets 50% or any number of stars you choose. I'd use it as a tool for the player, so that he can have reference how good he actually is in the game. 

You could use five start system, it easily transfers to the percentage. With the "zero" score, causing no stars. 

Cipsoft has changed some stuff in every update he delivered. When I was playing in 2008, they have downgraded the effect of healing runes that were player made, which wrecked the player based economy, the druid class has been useless, and the knight has been fairly weaker. The paladin, considered to be a balanced character, received a special weapon called the assassin star, which made the entire class 50% more deadly. In order to make up the failure, Cipsoft has weakened the weapon and made the entire class weakened. In the same time, the druids got a pump with a stronger spell. They have been keeping this up for the last few years. Leaving out the balanced classes out of the game system. I would suggest giving every class a special ability, not an "iron fist" but a special skill, that is needed around the world, such as some kind of elemental magic, a druid in Tibia is effective against the fire creatures, where the Mage would do little harm. For roleplay make an ability, that the stronger Tank class will be good and the hybrid of both will have both of their weaknesses but this would also make them more flexible. So the tank healer will be able to sustain a very strong attack. I do not know your system so giving you my solutions to a situation I do not know. You should look up the Path of Exile skill tree, which is the most complex level-up system in the gaming world. 

That way, most players used their darts and their purpose has been fulfilled. Another example from my game experience comes from an old game called "Star Wars Jedi Outcast Academy II", I remember that I aquired some rare items like Seeker drone, which were supposed to help you fight your enemies. Due to their rarity I have kept them until the end of the game, hoping they can help me fight the final boss, but to my dissapointment it hasn't even left a scratch on him. In that case I would simply make them more common. 

If you go into Appstore, you can download the "Unity remote tester~", connect via bluetooth and play test it on your device :) As for the tutorials, as @Xerosigma noted, the M2H NetworkTutorial is great, but you would like to learn how unity reacts with the mobile systems. For instance the standard terrain will not work on a IOS/Android, and so on. If I am to recommend anything. Just read about creating any Mobile MMO/Multiplayer game. Here is a starter kit for a shooter. $URL$ 

Artificial intelligence programmer, Sound programmer, Gameplay programmer, Scripter, UI programmer, Input programmer, Network programmer, Game tools programmer, Porting programmer, Technology programmer, Generalist, Lead game programmer Those are just a few general roles, that split into smaller bits, such as the combat programmer who is a specialised gameplay programmer. 

For my studio, I bought a Xbox Kinect sensor which can be used to create 3d point clouds in real time, which can be later converted into animations or 3d meshes (cheap 3d scanner). It works the way that it sends thousands of small points, not visable to the eyes that are later tracked by the sensor. From these points the camera projects a 3d point cloud which can be later transformed into meshes. 

Yes there are - FBX supports that. You need to get a Physique to skin conversion 3ds Max plugin. Not sure if it is still supported by the newest Max. 

The Delta Time is simply a standarized "clock time", which should be always be 1Hz or 1tick/1second. Some clocks can be to fast or too slow so a precise Rolex watch will show the exact delta time while a cheap one will lie a bit... The CPU's are referred to as clocks (for eg. the overclocking). Depending on their "clock rate" some can even be over 5Ghz, so they can generate 5,000,000,000 "clock beats" per second. If you do not use the delta time in your video player, your computers clock will frames of the video 5Bil x faster then it should. So it needs to be downscaled to a human-friendly time measurement unit. Would You use miles to measure the height of an ant - You can, but why would you? Older games for Windows 95, didn't use the delta time but were scaled for the cpu's at that time. If you load a 25 year old game into a new computer wont be able to play it, as it was meant to be used on an Intel 80386 or something similar which had the clockrate of 40Mhz. So the game would play 125x faster on the new PC with 5GHz clock. Read about the deltatime and the clock rate on Wikipedia, and before you script anything which has a time constant keep in mind that if it is meant for different CPU's you always have to use the Delta Time. :) $URL$ $URL$ 

The limit for a single map is 2000, you can merge them until your pc allows you. I have copied a fully painted terrain around 4048~ times and everything was working properly. The rendering view ends at 2km. The terrains area does't affect performance, the LOD does, grass etc. Somebody has actually made a map which was the size of Alaska, was funny to watch videos of people who tried running across the map. The only problem in creating a persistant world is the fact that when there are two terrains next to each other. They can not be edited at once, this creates many places for the holes in the ground where players could fall. In order to avoid this, you'd need to get a seamless terain plugin that allows you to merge terrains so that their lelevation level is the same. To work around the limit you should use 4 terrains that are 2km/2km instead of a 4km/4km. Search the terrain plugin directory on the unity asset store. FYI. Don't make the world too big. A standard game human character will need over 10 minutes of running to cross 2 kilometres. 

You can: 1) Make apps both for Windows and Xbox. 2) Keep in mind that the Windows apps require a Windows Kinect sensor, and Xbox applications require an Xbox Kinect sensor. If you make apps for Windows Kinect you will need the Windows Kinect sensor, otherwise your SDK might make some problems. 3) Go to $URL$ and download Kinect for Windows SDK 1.7 as there is a newer version - FREE 

There are more formulas for leveling subskills so it instead of playing with hard to understand formulas, you could always make a system that makes the process of levelling up (less exp / hour) instead of making a higher experience bar. 

You can use it Commercialy, you keep any money you earn below ~$52,000. After that you are supposed to split 25% of the revenue. Fair if you consider the ammount of work they have done in the engine creation process, tens of AAA game titles used the Unreal Engine, Mass Effect 3, Bioschock Infinite, Unreal Tournaments (...) and more. This engine gives you a complete Game Development kit with terrain editors, built in AI and so on. It utilises its own script language called the UnrealScript, which is a C++ based language 

If you change the name, it isn't violating trademark. The creators of the Simpsons twisted the Apple into a Mapple. Everyone knew it was the parody of Apple. No copyright infridgements. Rockstar used car models, that were taken from the real world, only to change to logo and the company name. There are cars nearly identical to the ones in real life. 

They have it easier, because they have a no class system. Which can be modified depending on what they wear, that way you are not bound to any stereotypes such as that the mage can not wear a heavy armor; a mage must look like Gandalf and due to his age he must tripp over his beard. In this type of world, players can be a hybrid of everything. That way armored mages could be effective fighters but their maneuverability could be weakened. They wouldn't be able to jump. fly, swim or do something that was possible in robes, such as creating a cyclone to life off the ground(came up with this now). In Tibia, it has been a serious problem for Cipsoft to balance the classes. They had one class which has been a hybrid - the paladin 

Is Skyrim Nexus (mod SDK) custom made? - Yes. It was made specifically for TESV Skyrim And you are not allowed to take any models from there unless you are going to use it with the game itself, or give it into the official modding society. Otherwise it would be considered stealing intelectual property/breaking the EULA you accepted upon installation of the software. Mods are MODIFICATIONS made to some kind of game. So 99% of times if there is a mod SDK it is created by the company, or by the game fans and they rely completely on the game content + are not allowed to distribute/resell anycontent they get their hands on. Is it possible to use the models in your published game? - NO Can a modding SDK be made? Yes, as long as you have a +-finished game, otherwise it wouldn't be a modding sdk. But just an SDK. Porting 3d "models" between sdks: the models are compressed in the Data folder (almost all the time). And they are saved in some format for eg. .FBX or .OBJ once you can export those outside the model container you can convert them into a model that the MOD kit supports. 

For me the elegant way would be to have the option to skip the tutorial. -Explain the interface. A few slides will do. -Do not make the player feel that he is dumb, some people do not when they are "overtreated". Keep it short and quick and do not make anyone read a tome. I personally like to read, most simply skip and treat a tutorial like the EULA - you should read it but "who cares". If the player unlocks an ability, after playing a while, and his UI changes make a short indication before starting the game; an arrow with a text highlighted in yellow cloud will do. 

For creating basic character movement, go through official unity3d guides and play around the unity basic assets, which contain the two different character controllers. 

A simple solution would be to make this special item available in-game for a limited time. For instance in 2012 Jagex (creator of Runescape) added a special item called the "DeathTouched dart" it could kill any opponent with just one hit. It has been said that it will be removed on some unspecified date. 

The wind is calculated differently differing on the engine. So unless it is a raw, baked animation you will have to set it up again inside of Unity using the wind settings provided by Unity engine. As for the 3D Studio Max. I have no idea what can be going on there. 

I will tell you something from my experience and personal understanding off the matter. First of all, I'd contact the company marketing section. use your official company email - *no @gmail/@yahoo.com etc..* If I were to write to Ford, I'd use their Contact Form and choose the "Other" inquiry type. Say why I would like to use their intelectual property in my product. Second of all, there is something called the "fair use of copyrighted material". The film industry would be much different if it wasn't legal to use "normal" cars in movies. The corporations pay to have their product included in a AAA movie - Double-o-7 drives Aston Martin, used to drink Martini now switched to Heineken, wears an Omega Watch, loves Coca Cola Zero, and uses sony electronics products. Of course if you are a small studio, you will reach fewer people, most likely you will not be able to get money directly from the brand. It is a often found in AAA movie/game productions, where the brands like Coca Cola and Pepsi fight each. So I doubt that you will find a Coke next to Pepsi on "one movie dining table". If you watched some movies you might have noticed that the operating systems used by "the FBI " are usually some crazy tech not similar to Windows or Apple OS. They have been doing that to make sure they wont have legal problems with Microsoft/Apple Corporations. This has changed and in fact now the Corporations want their product to be viewed by the biggest ammount of people. This way most of mobile phones carried on stage by Hollywood movie actors, are Iphones, climbing gear is Petzl and so on.