You go to the link you'd normally go to to get the extension, here is the link $URL$ but go in IE. Then download the extension, it downloads as a file with extension xpi. It doesn't install automatically of course 'cos you're in IE and it is just downloading a file and not opening it / interpreting it. When I try in Chrome for example, I click Download, it says "To install this add-on and thousands more, get Firefox, a free and open web browser from Mozilla. Learn more about Firefox or download anyway" You choose Download anyway. The file you'll see, is user_agent_switcher-0.7.3-fx+sm.xpi Then open firefox, click file, then open, make sure it's on "all files" so you see files of any extension, then open that file. From there it installs automatically, so from there it's just like you'd go gone to the site in firefox and clicked to install the extension. It downloads the extension which is quick and says to restart firefox. You know this user switcher extension is installed 'cos it's listed in Tools..Addons, and it's made a new option in the Tools menu called "Default user agent" 

Note- the general term for MBR and GPT, are "partition formats". It may be that all 3 options could work, where they have UEFI in there.. They all work for me. These instructions $URL$ say you should choose "GPT with UEFI" For file system.. apparently UEFI is required to support FAT32, and not necessarily NTFS. So, best option here is FAT32 There is one more thing that is needed though. A "bootloader file" in a particular folder, typically \efi\boot\ This page about Debian mentions the names of these files. But it's still relevant to Windows, because for example, Windows 7 64bit uses the path and filename of \EFI\boot\bootx64.efi $URL$ 

Here is a line that works on an MKV that had been split.. You can download MKVtoolnix. The + is important, and I suggest spaces on either side of each + 

Take chunks of that stuff in the PATH and put it in another environment variable. Then just create a simple PATH with c:\;c:\windows;c:\windows\system32;c:\jdk (c:\jdk if javac.exe is there) You can try adding bits of it into the PATH as a troubleshooting step until you find the error. Like once you have all that into a new environment variable, take half of it paste it on the end of PATH, see if it functions fine. If so add more, if not then remove what you added, and add less. At root, your troubleshooting logic is right but you are wrong. You say "no matter what I change it to, it doesn't work" . But you didn't try a simple short minimalistic PATH. And indeed, remove the quotes. Space is fine because ; is the delimiter. Also you say you get that error "Program is not a recognized" 

A while back I wrote a great (and perhaps somewhat ugly) batch file that does it, it requires gnuwin32's sed and cut. I wrote it 'cos I was horrified how much RAM modern browsers take up and I wanted to see quickly. I am currently trying to neaten it up but this is it as it is. So, it's saying that Chrome is using 3.4GB 

And if you want to be more concise with your regex FIND: REPLACE: $0\r\n Note that you can easily use $0 in your example regex. It means the whole matching So for your one, you could've done FIND: REPLACE: 

Then click it and you see you have a forum like interface to that newsgroup of usenet. Or any other newsgroup if you enter it in the search bar and click it. 

The answers.microsoft.com link says "This occurs when unknown programs (unsigned) try write data to protected system folders or registry settings, and UAC is seeking your permission" The technet link says 

Some good troubleshooting steps are you did 127.0.0.1:80 ok A) Try to connect from your LAN (so, 192 address) B)Try a port scan of port 80 $URL$ Bear in mind that you trying to connect to your external IP from within your network, won't always work, it depends on whether your router has a feature that supports that so better to check connecting to your external from another machine e.g. the port scan. C) Try netstat -aon see if the server is not just listening but listening on 0.0.0.0:80 (so accepting all) and not 127.0.0.1:80 (accepting local only) or 192.168.0.3:8 (an example of it accepting LAN only) And if any of these fail you can check the windows firewall too. 

i've heard it said- why partition with ssds i'm wondering why they would say that. Is the situation different from with spinning disk style hard drives. The reasons with spinning disk drives, were -smaller partitions are quicker to defragment -could be quicker to format (though there is quickformat!) -organization separating data and system onto separate partitions, and can wipe the system partition. I know somebody may look at those reasons and still not partition a drive. But I am interested in what the reasons are, with partitioning an SSD drive, how the situation differs if at all? Somebody suggested why not buy a few small SSDs. Though surely the same logic would apply to partitioning non-SSD drives? And surely with either, one is limited by the number of SATA ports. And is the issue of partition alignment something that is relevant to both SSD and non-SSD? i've only heard of it recently, in SSD times. 

Sounds strange to me that the voltage isn't right. Voltage has to be absolutely right. I tend to see it specified to 1 decimal place, so, it should be right to 1dp. Use the specified voltage. When it comes to amps, the device uses what it needs. So the power supply's Amps need to be >= what the device needs. I guess it's possible that when it's as high as 18V then 1V might not make or break it but that's a wild guess to say that and I wouldn't be keen on trying it. You're meant to use the correct voltage. 

I don't know how they're doing it in practice but what you describe could happen if malware enables the "hacker" or "cracker" to get into their account, to log in, this could be hacking cookies in some way to gain access, or somehow stealing their password and logging in. You say the IP address isn't the originators in this case, well, the malware may be sending the login info to the hacker/cracker and he logs in from some other machine. Funnily enough I have actually seen an email account after it was broken into had the junk/spam sent emails in the sent folder! So the account was literally logged into and emails were sent to people on their contact list. I've also seen cases where the sent email folder didn't have the emails (maybe in that instance they were deleted by the attacker, or maybe attacker used an smtp server for that provider bypassing the web interface. It was largely yahoo addresses that were getting attacked like this i.e. people logging in breaking into yahoo. Other than that sometimes people use the same email address and password on a forum, or website and an attacker attacks the forum or website and gets their details. Before the big yahoo incident what happened often was just the from header spoofed, but never the contact list stolen. The FROM header can be spoofed and the spammer can use any SMTP server that lets them log in, but to steal the contact list they have to log into the account. So, if that happens it's best to change password. 

You can also do | find "name" and get the name. You could just grab the first line, so | head -n 1 (head requires gnuwin32), and you could just grab the 14mn 3s 

It's clear on that webpage, it looks like you were consulting the wrong section. So both the rules you had were wrong. 

nmap of course(i.e. do a port scan). nmap -P0 -p1-65535 5.6.7.8 (where 5.6.7.8 is the ip) maybe somebody has a better idea or better parameters. That -P0 makes it work even if you didn't get a ping response. and scanning all those ports (1-65535) at once may be a bit slow(or perhaps ok on a LAN) added -v is an excellent switch, it makes nmap show the results as it progresses. that is very fast. nmap -v -P0 -p1-65535 5.6.7.8 (and perhaps you may find -T5 as marius suggests makes it faster) added as to the other aspect of your question, how to adjust the ssh server port, I haven't checked to see if it's possible to edit sshd_config while logged in but that'd be a path to try. You open sshd_config (it's within /etc e.g. and it will say e.g. so you make a new line and type , then restart the system or the sshd server. and (you can use nmap and test your two ports eg 22 and 12345) so see you still have port 22 and that you get the additional port. That(adding an additional port) seems safer than adjusting the one port it is on because if that goes wrong you've locked yourself out. You can always edit again and remove a port. Hopefully sshd_config doesn't lock while logged in, give it a try and report back. Hopefully some know some other ways as it's always good to have multiple methods.