You were already almost in the right place. Open Tools > Folder options > File Types, click on XLS file type. 

There's a feature in new(er) builds of Dropbox called Selective sync. I think you need at least version 1.0. If you're not sure then just grab the latest stable release from here 

Open Firefox and type to the address bar. Navigate to value dom.max_script_run_time, right-click on it and select Reset 

That's it. Users won't see option anymore. This will also disable the Save as XPS option but in your case it's probably acceptable. 

Is there any way to make this format permanent (registry hack/some setting I have not noticed)? Right now every time I close WMP and open another file it's back to the default (only current time) setting. 

Windows 8.1 is bad, quite bad, it keeps crashing, at least once a day. But that's fine, but the real issue is that the brightness keeps changing, it's annoying. And before the upgrade, I fixed this by disabling "Display Power Saving Technology" feature in Intel Graphics and Media setting in the control panel. Now it's gone. At least I cannot find it. BTW, all my drivers are up to date and I installed all the updates of Windows 8.1. 

In Windows 8.1, when I right click a WIFI connection, nothing happens. In Windows 8, there will be a menu and I can view its properties by clicking the "View Properties" menu item. How to do that in Windows 8.1? 

I've contacted Sony Support staff, and with his indication - something wrong with the service, I look into the services that got disabled, and I did found one - Vaio Power Management Service, after making this service running automatically, things went back to normal. I still don't know how the hell it got disabled though. I didn't fiddle with it. 

LBP5200 is not compatible with x64 Windows7. But according to this thread it's possible to get it working with LBP5000 drivers. You should find it on this page, look for Printer Driver (x64 Edition) (R1.13 Ver.3.10) 

You can do it with Windows PowerShell (available natively on Windows 7, must be downloaded for Windows XP/Vista) The quick and dirty script looks like this (you can paste it to a PowerShell window or save as a .ps1 file): 

To loop through all folders and subfolders on drive D: and copy files to C:\myfolder without subdirectories try this: 

It is not possible to restore already dismissed reminders. But you can open the calendar view and search by modification date: 

You must have the English language pack installed. Download it from here After installation you should see the option in the languages menu. 

However, it's acting somewhat strange. For a start (this is how I noticed), I cannot press Enter on my keyboard to confirm, which I'm sure I used to be able to do. When playing around a bit, I noticed that I can't actually grab the dialog box and drag it around like I would expect (think JavaScript alert boxes). I can click the cross, and both the buttons, so it is still working (not crashed) but just very strangely. Anyone know anything about this? 

I have locked down Chrome to be very strict on the cookies and data it stores both temporarily and long term. I have ticked the following boxes in cookie settings: 

In Chrome, if I have posted a page and I press F5 to refresh, I see the 'Confirm Form Resubmission' window as I would expect. 

I'm SSHing to a headless Ubuntu box and sometimes need to upload files from that box via FTP. The built-in FTP client does not show the progress of my upload (or at least I don't know how to view it). I just see this during the operation (which could take up to an hour): 

Open regedit.exe Navigate to: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment What's the type of "Path" registry key? If it's not not REG_EXPAND_SZ then this could be the problem. You can change it to REG_EXPAND_SZ by doing this: 

If you can use PowerShell then this should do the trick (works on local computer, change the variable and output file path according to your needs): 

First it searches for an exact match (when you type into the search box, for example). If it does not find one then it uses VLOOKUP with wildcard *. For example, you can search for and it will return value 20 

Now my computer's Silverlight 5.1.10411.0 (x64) cannot be uninstalled because the MSI package is missing, how can I force it to uninstall? The reason that I want to do this is that I cannot redownload the installed of Silverlight 5.1.10411.0 (x64), there is a x86 one, but not x64 one - shame on you, Microsoft, or me for that I cannot find it using Google. Or if someone can point me to the right download package is also acceptable. 

I am using a external Blu-ray DVD drive through a USB3.0-to-eSATA adapter. But whenever I connect the Blu-ray, I cannot connect to the internet thru wifi. If I remove it, I get wifi internet connectivity back immediately. How come this is happening? I thought the drivers are separated and they should not affect each other. I am using Windows 8.1 x64. 

I quite often use Smartglass from both my phone and tablet to control my Xbox, typically as a remote control for things like Netflix. It works well, the one downside is the constant reconnecting process - usually 10-15 seconds. The usual scenario is someone/something will interrupt the show so I'll want to pause. Even if the app is still running in the background of the device, I'll switch back to it but still have to wait for it to connect. It seems only if I switch back to the app within about the first 1-2 minutes after it was active will I be able to resume exactly where I was without it having to reconnect. So the question: is there something I can do to prevent the connection loss happening so quickly / at all? Probably at the expense of some battery life but I'd almost rather that. 

Is it possible to extract images from Lightroom's preview cache? For example if I lose some of the original image files before weekly backup. JPEG Preview is set to Medium size so I would not get the full images but it'd be better than nothing. I'm using version 2.6 

You can clear all recent Run dialog entries without manually modifying the registry or installing additional programs. See $URL$ for walkthrough /w screenshots. 

I have a PDF file which I'm trying to access through a web browser. Adobe Reader (version 9.4.0.195) starts loading it but then shows only a blank page and gives an error: There was an error processing a page. Invalid ColorSpace 

Just an additional note - looks like this method works on Windows 7 (and probably Vista) but the icon did not appear when I tested on Windows XP. 

Don't know why, but now my Delete key works the same as Shift + Delete which shows a 'Do you want to delete XXX permanently dialog. And it does not go through Recycle Bin anymore. How so? I am using the Windows 8 x64 edition. Update: My recycle bin setting is fine, that's why this is tricky. But the "Display delete confirmation dialog" check is checked and grayed out. That's one bit that is. The radio button of "Don't move files to recycle bin" is not checked. 

I'll answer my own question then, to see the Intel Graphics settings, there is a igfxcpl.cpl inside C:\Windows\System32, click to run and you can change Intel Graphics settings 

Recently, a strange thing happens to my Sony VAIO Pro 13. When I use the laptop on battery, the battery level just won't change at all as if it's on AC adapter. Always 100%. Then suddenly, the battery level will drop to a certain level after 3-4 hours, then after 3-4 hours it updates again. Then without battery level low warning, the Ultrabook close itself. What is going on? BTW, I am running on Windows 8 x64 

I recently purchased a Blu-ray drive to go in my PC. Both hardware and software was installed successfully. I have a dual-monitor setup, one of which is a TV. Currently a DVI connector on my graphics card goes through a DVI to VGA adapter which plugs into a VGA on the TV. This works and my computer detects a 1080p TV correctly. My main monitor is plugged in using the only HDMI connector on my graphics card. When I play a blu-ray it will appear on my main monitor correctly. If I drag the window to my TV, a message pops up stating that the video can not be played and that I need a DVI or HDMI connection. Already I'm a bit lost on the technicalities, in my mind if the TV can receive a 1080p picture through VGA I see no reason why kicking the signal out from a blu-ray should make any difference. Regardless, I am now after a solution. I can't use the DVI to my monitor as it's a 3D monitor and must use the HDMI connection. So, I found this DVI to HDMI adapter. Would something as simple as this work? As I don't really understand why VGA doesn't work I can't see how this would make any difference, to me they are all digital signals it's just the shape of the connector, or is that not the case?