It looks like you've already changed your DNS, which is fine. But I wanted to mention that if you want to test your virtual host configuration before messing with the DNS settings (useful if you want to keep an old site live while you get everything ready on the new host) you can temporarily make the change in your hosts file on your local computer and the change will take effect immediately. 

It's called a Reverse Proxy. You can do it with Apache as well as other web servers. There are also dedicated proxy servers that you could use as well. 

You'll probably need to tweak these because I don't understand all of what you're trying to accomplish. For example the RewriteCond below seemed redundent so I left it out. If you really are trying to rewrite everything under the guide directory you'll have to incorporate it back in. 

If neither of Adrian Lang's examples work you could try something like this. The rewrite conditions will prevent it from doing further rewrites if the file exists. 

Maybe you can do the following: have one open "Command Prompt" window where you run the "ftp command" and have another "Command Prompt" window where you run the query. I hope this helps. 

I'm not really a user of Acronis Backup 12, but the following quote from Vasily Semyonov (Acronis Virtualization Program Manager) in the Acronis Forum seems to confirm that product version doesn't have a "classic" traditional GUI anymore, but only a web interface / web console (the bold emphasis is mine): $URL$ 

My question is the following: is there a way to see the RAID events history / log of the RAID internal controller (a "Smart Array P400")? I would like to be able to use "hpacucli" for that, but I can't find any related command in the Hpacucli Utility for Linux - All Commands Guide I may try to use other tools for this, if required (but not HP iLO - "Integrated Lights-Out" because I don't have that access), preferably avoiding any reboot. I have checked "/var/log/messages" but I haven't found any seemingly related entries there. 

I use something like this for my zend framework projects. It tells index.php to handle every request for files that don't already exist. You can get creative with the regular expressions or add other RewriteConds to be more selective about when it sends the request to the index.php. 

In the typical email setup when an end user views the date of an email, is that supplied by the sending server or the receiving server? Every once in a while I'll get complaints that the date on an email originating from our servers is wrong (usually something like 1900, or 1969 indicating that it's just displaying a default date). All the dates on our system are correct and it definitely does not happen all the time. I've always just assumed the problem is with the receiving end. Can anyone shed some light on what would cause this to happen? 

For a reverse proxy, fixing the links in your content output (as mentioned in the other answer) is the better way to go, however mod_proxy_html is another possibility. That said, if you're serving both applications out of the same Apache server why bother with the two virtual hosts? You should be able to serve two different languages from the same virtual host, that way you can skip the reverse proxy step completely. 

If I understand the question correctly, you want the "www" group to have 'read', 'write' and 'execute' privileges on the "/opt/apps" folder (directory) and subdirectories. In that case, use the command like this: 

I have just checked a Windows Server 2003 computer with disks formatted in NTFS and indeed there is a "RECYCLER" hidden directory / folder in C:\ and, under that "RECYCLER" directory, there are several (also) hidden sub-directories with names started by "S-" I hope this helps. 

To sign automatically all future git commits, you can define a global alias. For example, to create a global alias called "c", you would do this: 

The IBM website has several articles about installing Linux in the "IBM System x3850 M2" model, specifically about installing RHEL 5 (Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5), RHEL 6, SLES 10 SP2 (Suse Linux Enterprise Server 10 Service Pack 2) and SLES 11. So, I guess that those Linux distributions, at least, are (or were) supported by IBM for that particular model. The articles are the following: IBM Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 5 - IBM System x3850 M2 (7141, 7144) $URL$ Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 6 - IBM System x3850 M2 and x3950 M2 (Type 7233, 7234) $URL$ Installing SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10 SP 2 - IBM System x3850 M2 (7233) and System x3950 M2 (7233) $URL$ Installing SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 11 - IBM System x3850 M2 and x3950 M2 (7141, 7144) $URL$ Regarding the keybind combinations to start the installation, it seems you may find them in the section 4 of the articles above. Let me quote here the "4.0 Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 6" section from $URL$ 

Many of the guides for setting up Wordpress (or similar applications) on nginx with php-fpm use a configuration that in part looks something like this: 

You'll probably also want to do a search on drupal and pretty or clean urls which will give you more info on this and will also let you drop the index.php. 

There are many other ways to configure a reverse proxy both with Apache and with other web or proxy server software. The only thing you need to configure on the Windows server is to make sure any URLs output by it use the external address. 

Use Perl to evaluate the query_string and then use an statement to skip the rest if the parameter is not set. Perhaps something like this*: 

You really need to talk to the Network and/or Host Server administrator about this. If for example you're in a corporate environment they might not be too happy with you if you did something like this. That said, you could probably use an SSH Tunnel, though I don't know how practical that would end up being. 

Good. So it also works for single line cases! Does it work well if the string searched is NOT in the input? Let's try it for (that does NOT exist in the given example): 

So, to create a split zip archive, you could do the following (the "" is the "recursive" switch to include subdirectories of the directory): 

You can use the "split archive" functionality of "zip" itself using the "--split-size" option. From "zip" manpage (""): 

Great. So this seems to be working in several cases (although I guess there may be more efficient solutions). So, how does this work? Here's the basic rundown for the "VAR_3" example... The first part - - returns the following output: 

So, that part basically matches everything between and the next ocurrence of . As we see, this part seems to be returning what we want... PLUS two things that we do NOT want: the "" in the first line -AND- the last line. So, we pipe this first output to another "sed" instruction that only applies to the first line, and we replace the string "" by nothing, effectively removing it: 

Another way to do it would be to have a public folder inside each module. Then use alias' and/or rewrite rules to direct requests to the appropriate location. Using the directive you can set explicit permissions for folders outside of the document root. Doing it this way though would likely require you to reconfigure Apache every time you added a module. Something like this might work: 

Personal I've been happy with FreeBSD. For some reason it's always made a little more sense to me than other *nix OS (It has great documentation). The ports system is great for applying updates, and I've had little problem with updates breaking things. Pkg_updating especially helps. With any distro, if you're using packages that come with the os or even through 3rd party repo's, you're going to have to wait a least a little bit for them to build the latest version of the software you want, and sometimes that's a good thing because there may be stability or dependency issues you might not know about. Of course, you can always build directly from source, then you never have to wait. PS: Upgrading the base os is also quite easy and stable using freebsd-update even between major versions. 

First of all, I knew about WMI - Windows Management Instrumentation - but I must admit I did NOT know about WMIC - WMI Command-Line :) I have found the following blog post that I think helps here: Rich's Blog - Get Process CPU Usage Using WMI $URL$ In that blog post, the author uses the Win32_PerfFormattedData_PerfProc_Process class to get the CPU usage of a process (in several ways). For instance, if the name of the running process is "iexplore" (Internet Explorer) then you would run: 

Imagining your input is saved in a file called "test.txt", you can use "awk" with the following syntax: 

You can see that the commit has the "Signed-off-by:" line if you run the "git log" command with the option: 

Raymond Chen, from Microsoft, has written the following "blog post": Why does the Recycle Bin have different file system names on FAT and NTFS? $URL$ From that blog post, let me quote the section that seems to be more relevant to this effect: 

As an alternative to setting up your own email server you may want to check with your Domain Name Registrar they often provide low cost email services that would let you do forwarding. A service such as Google Apps would also allow forwarding (and a bunch more) and is easy to setup. Your milage of course may vary but I've always found the "simplest" servers to be the ones I don't have to setup. 

Note: the solution by David Zaslavsky above does more or less the same thing, but this way you don't have to do a separate VirtualHost section for each subdomain. 

What you probably want to do is a reverse proxy. Assuming the other websites on the linux server are running under Apache. Then using mod_proxy your config would be something like this: 

Another option is if you're willing to run your own DNS server, you can use includes to easily have the same config for all domains. I do this and then have my DNS Provider replicate the settings from there. Doing this adds a bit of overhead on the maintenance side though.