"Where the starting delimiter is the 2nd space in the file, and the ending delimiter is ./" Here's an ugly one just for you 

The Answer Is $URL$ Repair Installation. It installs XP over XP, overwriting all the important files. That is not the recovery console. Your data should be fine. It touchees c:\windows and might work in c:\program files and works on your registry. Any other folder like c:\blah is left alone. I don't think it removes anything from c:\documents and settings. XP's repair installation is MUCH more versatile than the Windows 7 repair installation. The Windows 7 one only works when you can get into windows. The XP one works even when you can't get into Windows. You're lucky you're fixing XP! Another option is a parallel installation, installing XP to another directory on the same partition. Then copy the files over.. Another option, not necessarily so easy, is you could make a new partition and install to that and copy files over but you may need to shrink a partition to make space, so that's not so easy.. Try a repair installation first. But consider a parallel installation e.g. if that fails. 

And hey presto. You do that for your second power supply, now plug it into whatever components. It is that easy. I'm sure that at times when i've had a low power fanless computer and needed more power i've used a big power supply like this. I saw no problems. 

unxutils has really old versions of a bunch of some of the most useful utilities. including grep for example. gnuwin32 versions are also many years out of date, though not nearly old as unxutils. Gnuwin32 has a much larger number of utilities. That's obviously a major advantage. Bear in mind that gnuwin32 has that major advantage over unxutils. As an example.. The extremely old unxutils 

It seems to work fine now. I'm not sure what I was doing wrong before. You can choose "composite font" and it shows the character or you can choose "single font" and it shows. 

I was browsing the internet on a computer with windows 7 starter, then wasn't able to, but other computers on my network, other OSs, could. On the windows 7 starter one, I ran the troubleshooter, and it said "The troubleshooter made some changes to your system. Try attempting the task you were trying to do before" "The default gateway is not available" Fixed Now I can browse again, though I don't know if i'll run into it again or the cause. What changes did it make? And what might've caused this problem? 

If I start hearing some music/sound/noise while i'm browsing in chrome, and I want to know which tab it is . And I have multiple chrome windows each with multiple tabs, then how can I identify which it is? I can see that the speaker tray icon in windows 7 doesn't do it, it only shows the currently active tab in the currently active window, even if another tab in another window is making the noise. 

There is a third way. (you missed right clicking an inf file and clicking install) even a fourth way- using device manager or just plugging the device in, but letting it search..as opposed to pointing to a location. So, The ways being -run a setup file -go to device manager where something didn't detect properly - came up as a question mark, and right click and point it to a location with the driver (I tell it not to search, as it's quicker just pointing it to the place, and searching might lead it to a built in windows one rather than the latest one) -right clicking an INF file and left clicking 'install'. -letting windows search for a driver Running the setup file can install software. Pointing device manager to a location,(when you see the question mark so a driver didn't install properly) that might do a bit more than right clicking the inf file. So i'd try pointing device manager to a location. If that fails i'd try right clicking an inf file. Added Let's call them the 'installation executable' way, the 'pointing to the location' way, and the 'right click the inf, and install' way. I'd recommend doing the installation executable (setup.exe) route first because that may configure the device, and install any software, and that's usually what the manufacturer created for installing the driver . It's the longest way but still not too long. That should do it. And if you have problems you can try uninstalling it via its uninstaller, and reinstalling. If the installation executable way fails, you may still get software out of it so was worth trying, you can then try pointing device manager to the location. And if pointing to the location fails, (perhaps you can't even see the question mark in device manager) you could try the most minimalistic way, right clicking the INF file and clicking INSTALL. None of the methods take that long. The longest is the installation executable way. So when things don't work, since the other two methods are so quick.. try them. But i'd try the location method before the right clicking an INF method. Because pointing to a location means that if it works you know it will appear in a device manager and I think it also copies some driver files to somewhere within the windows directory. Whereas right clicking an INF, might just add an entry to the registry. I am not sure if an INF file is relied upon after installation, but if you are worried about that, you could put it within the windows directory when you right click it and click install, so you know it's important and not to delete it - there is even a directory called C:\windows\inf. I have almost never had to do the right clicking an INF method. In 15 years, I only recall having to do it once, and one other time recommending somebody do it and it worked for them. There is a a famous problem perhaps in the win98 days of the 'install' option not appearing when right clicking an inf, and there's a fix for that. But that tells you also that the method isn't so unknown. It's a tool in your arsenal, really for when nothing else words. The two ways you mention are the most common and are generally better because they do more. So the installation of executable installs software.. may configure the device. There's actually that fourth way. To let device manager search for a driver. That can combine with the software way. So for example, it is typically recommended not to plug a USB device straight in 'cos then it autodetects and windows tries to install the built in driver. But if you install software first, that can include a driver. Then when you plug the device in and windows searches, it should/could find the later driver. 

Well, I have a PPPoA ADSL connection. I had trouble downloading a file, I called the router manufacturer, we went to the router config page, it was on 1500, he said change it to 1400, we did and it fixed it. Maybe if it was a bit bigger e.g. 1410 or 1420 or more, it'd be more efficient and no problem . It shouldn't be more than 1500 that's for sure. I'm not expert, but things may be efficient if it's bigger but not too big. There is a great webpage that talks about finding your optimal MTU (perhaps more relevant if you have issues) $URL$ 

to make a file that was 60 seconds, so no problem so far. That's the file exactly 1 minute, no issue there so far. 

I have noticed that the file command in linux, is detecting this mpg as data? $URL$ it detects flv ok but this mpg file it doesn't.. i'd like to be able to detect mpg files. I found the part of the magic file for MPEG.. 

well, I wouldn't put it like that. Each interface on the router has a different IP range. But, with your consumer router or home router, what happens is it's like a router with two interfaces, one your side has a switch connected to it. And the multiple ports are ports of the switch. So if you think in terms of the router part, it's not like oh this is inside the subnetwork and this is outside, 'cos there's potentially many networks. There's one on each interface. And the router is not going to be transmitting it back to the same network it came from. The reason why it reached the router in the first place is precisely because the switch (which it reached first), saw the MAC address and so saw that that's not the MAC address of the router. The computer that sent the packet out, will check whether the destination IP of the packet is on its own network, or the same network, and will then based on that, choose the relevant MAC address. Either the MAC address of the computer it's destined to (that's if the computer is on the same network). Or (if the computer is on another interface of the router), then it'll be the MAC address of the router. I guess that might answer the title of your question quite directly, as to why the computer would need to know the subnet mask.. In the TCP/IP system as it is.. that's how it works, the computer picks the relevant layer 2 address e.g. for ethernet, the MAC address. 

Then do Ctrl-C, so you just know you have the ssh command right so it prompts for a password. But this time, change for It will prompt for a password. Enter the password. Now Exit. Then the next time you ssh in, it should go in automatically. For that to work you have to have keys on A. If you don't already have keys on A, then run Then do as described. In connecting from A to B, All commands mentioned here so, ssh or ssh-copy-id or ssh-keygen, are run from A. 

NAT blocks incoming connections, and lets outgoing connections out. Once the connection is made, then packets can go either way. If you set up a server, you have to deal with NAT at your end if you use NAT. If you connect to a server, they have to deal with NAT at their end, if they use NAT. If NAT blocked outgoing connections(it doesn't, but supposing it did), then you wouldn't be able to access the Internet. 

How can I tell if win 10 media eg usb, is home or pro? I made a win10 usb some time back and would like to know if it is win10 home or win10 pro EDIT USB made with win10 media creation tool 

remove any sshd or cyg_server user from /etc/passwd And i've seen it suggested to remove /var/empty (though I didn't and my reinstall was fine) $URL$ You could reinstall cygwin (without uninstalling) it just updates things e.g. when I did it I noticed one command got some more switches. All the things you had installed like openssh should still be ticked. I don't think I had to reboot Then open an administrative command prompt and run ok the defaults and net start sshd 

SSD is fine. Desktop Spinning Hard Disk Drive, not good. Laptop Spinning Hard Disk Drives, more resilient than desktop spinning hard disk drives. Reason is that spinning hard disk drives have moving parts. SSDs don't. SSD is the modern. So, if anything, modern ones in that sense(not damaged from vibration) are better. But, with any components, people often find that modern ones don't last as long as ones years ago. 

I notice that chrome (famously now), creates loads of instances in task manager. Is that lots of threads and one process? Or is it multiple processes. i.e. is task manager showing threads, or is it showing processes? Suppose I go to the orb/start, and I launch cmd, then I go there again and launch another cmd. Is that two separate processes, rather than one process with two threads? Now suppose I launch a cmd, then from there, I launch another cmd. Is that one process two threads? Or is that two processes? 

I just as a test wrote echo before each line to get an idea of what it was doing. The %1 and %* are getting eaten up by the batch file as it replaces them with nothing. For Cmd like behaviour you need to use %%1 and %%* Try %%1 and %%* 

I'm not an expert but If you have 2 machines behind NAT, and two machines with public IPs outside NAT. Then the machines behind NAT could know one remote machine from the other, because the remote machines have different IP addresses. And the remote ones know one host behind NAT, from another host behind NAT, because they access the dest port of the one they want to send to. If the two remote machines were also behind NAT, and wanted to send to whichever machines on the other side, that are also behind NAT.. then IP and port wouldn't give away who the sender was. 

I have heard that SSH was originally for BSD. Is this correct? And what alternatives to SSH do GNU users use? Or do people just not use GNU for SSH or an SSH type application?