The Minecraft modding forums is probably the best place to get answers like this. Searching there is your best bet and you can likely find the answer. I did a search there and found that someone had asked this question already. It looks like the best way is to use Magic Launcher. If you want to do it through code, I suggest you ask the question over there. 

Is triggered when the button is pressed, and that press is inside its bounds. This means the event will never be or , because a button simply wouldn't receive events like this. You need to have a global listener that listens for events. All your components talk to your global listener and the global listener watches for events that are outside the bounds of your components. For example, you'd have your button notify the global listener that it's being pressed, then if the global listener hears about another event that's not inside the button's bounds (like an event), the global listener can tell the button that it's no longer being pressed. This is a common problem with event systems. It's more complex to remember who received what event and if they should be notified about future events based on the initial event type. That's why it's up to you to write this functionality if you want it. 

What you essentially have is per pixel collision. Each of your array locations represent a pixel, I'm assuming that you have arbitrary shapes defined in these arrays. I'll assume an array position holds if it's solid and if it's not. You check collisions by iterating through one array (the smaller preferably) and checking to see if any of its values overlap with a value in the second array. 

Make sure your build target is set correctly. If that is, then attach a debugger to your code. Wrap your sound code in an exception handler and examine the conditions that led to the exception being thrown. With this information, you can either code to avoid those conditions, or depending on the conditions, modify MonoGame to ignore the exception. 

Remember that does not alter the original shape, so you don't have to worry about the rotations adding up, but you do need to remember to draw the correct transformed shape. 

So is referencing the rows of your array and is referencing the columns. So the top row of tiles on your screen from left to right are referencing the last column in your array from top to bottom. 

If any of those conditions are reached, you're at the bottom of that recursion, so you stop the recursion down that path. 

Since the rooms are always in the same order in the exit lists, we can make a quick map of the rooms while looking for an exit. My pseudo code is somewhat Javaish, sorry, I've been using it a lot lately. Unvisited_Rooms is a hashmap holding a room ID, and a list of indexes of the un-mapped rooms Or a 2d array, whatever works. I imagine the algorithm could go something like this: 

Do you have to worry about it? Likely not. A vast majority of game programming is going to be at such a level that the endianness is abstracted away. Even in networking, you're almost certainly going to be using a library for networking protocols. It's good that you're aware of it, but I doubt you'd run into an issue with it. 

This is simply a combination of a few simple steps. First, get the mouse position, will give you the mouse X position. You'll want to get that position at the time the mouse button was pressed. Now, that you have a target, move your hero towards it. You can do that with something like: 

You've discovered the equation for constant linear acceleration. This equation is used in situations of uniform acceleration to determine final position and velocity. Essentially you start with your acceleration and integrate with respect to time to get the equation for velocity and integrate that for the equation for position. 

If you want the feature, implement it. If you don't want the feature don't implement it. If you're unsure if the player wants it, implement it and notify the user if the other player disconnects and give them an option to continue with the AI player. 

There's still a null check, but you can get rid of that if you fill all your maps with empty maps for each component. Enabling you to shorten the look up to: 

Since you're using static patterns for breaking the image up, you can use static defined rectangles too. Simply pre-define the bounds for each rectangle by manually checking the placement for each. As shown in the image I gave you before, the rectangles should just be the minimum size required to enclose each shape. 

I suppose you could call it a collision, but it's more like an intersection. You can create a trigger zone that activates when the player enters it. A simple way of doing that would just create a list of these zones, then check to see if the player is inside them every frame or when the player moves. A zone is just two points, a min and a max. Then you can check when something is inside like so: 

In fewer words. You want to start at the maximum wrap length and work backwards until you find a break point. When you find it, insert a newline character. Repeat that until you've reached then end of your original string. Now, in code: 

Add the modifiers to the component that holds the value being modified. This means for the strength attribute, you'd add a list of strength modifiers to the component that defines the strength attribute. The modifiers are just data after all. Then your systems will have no trouble accessing the modifiers because they'll already in the same component. 

As usual with these types of things it's completely up to you. You may need a tutorial, it depends on the complexity of the game. I suggest some play testing, to see how easy it is for people to figure out how to play. However, if you do make a tutorial, I would suggest making it optional. Simply give the user the choice to proceed through the tutorial, or just get into the game. 

A: How far apart two "paired" ground boxes can be placed. These are the boxes where the user is expected to jump late enough to clear two boxes. Calculated using the time above the minimum height to clear a box and the speed of the character. B: How close together two ground boxes can be placed. Calculated using the speed of the character and the time it takes for a jump. C: How close together a ground box -> air box pair can be. Where the character needs to jump over a box, then duck under the next box. Calculated by the time it takes to reach the minimum height to clear a box (because it'll be the same as the time it takes to clear a box and hit the ground) and the speed of the character. D: How close together a air box -> ground box pair can be. Where the character needs to duck, then jump. E: (Not pictured because I forgot) How close together two sky boxes can be. Calculated using the speed of the character and the time it takes to duck. There will be some room for setting the difficulty here. You can make the jumps tight or loose depending on the difficulty. A tight jump would just barely clear the edges: