I travel and use open wifi networks a lot. Given the nature of my work I want to route all my traffic thru my home network. My home office is well equipped to handle such a connection. Basically I need to route all traffic (all ports, udp and tcp) over SSL to my home network so its like im sitting on the same subnet. My home router is on a static IP and supports IPSec and SSL VPN as an endpoint. Right now i'm using SSH and tunneling ports one by one but its far from elegant and annoying to setup even with batch files. I have not experimented with VPN. Does this sound possible and worth looking into with OpenVPN as the client on my laptop connecting to my router as the VPN endpoint? I also have a 2008 R2 server if I need a different endpoint but prefer to use my router. 

In your second scenario you could possibly NAT the entire second network to a 10.0.0.0/24, IE 10.119.0.10 would go out your natty router, be sent to their natty router, then NAT to 192.168.1.10 on their side. If it even works it will be as much work as just changing the network enumeration on either end really. 

This is an area where I've been met with a great deal of frustration in Solaris. One unreasonable way I've found that could work for Solaris global zones would be to create differential flars (one from the beginning, then one afterwards), then extract the differential flar's cpio archive and pass it to a DIY monkeyscript that would create a Puppet module. When you have ZFS root pools you can just create a new BE, make your changes, lucompare and send that to DIY monkeyscripts which can spit out your Puppet modules. But again that doesn't help with non-global zones. 

Go to Authentication and then edit the Anonymous User - change from using the IUSR account by default to using the Application Pool Identity. 

In the Basic Settings section of a website in IIS 7.5, there is an option to specify a user account via . If this is kept off, pass through authentication is used. I assumed that would use the identity of the Application Pool however this was not the case. In order to get my website to connect to MSSQL under the correct user account, I had to specify the user under the screen. So what is the difference between and the Application Pool Identity? 

As it sounds like you're a little unsure I suggest you install Plesk. Better yet, instead seek a managed hosting provider who can help you as you learn what to do. It's not fair to clients to put them on your server if you don't know what you're doing! 

Mount the OS root partitions in /mnt/osA and /mnt/osB would give you some output similar to Solaris' You could then diff the more concerning files closely, like sysctl.conf, httpd.conf, etc. And how could I forget Blueprint! With Blueprint you can run against a system and get a recipe of what has changed from the default install. 

As it sounds like your company is running a captive portal this will be quite an issue. If you log on to the captive portal are you then able to use the proxy normally, or do you have to keep that portal session active? 

To connect directly to the desktop. This will automatically SSH to servername.domain.com, forward a port to the destination VNC server, then connect to that port. Replace desktop with the internal DNS name or IP of the desktop, and of course the rest should be obvious there. As an alternative there's also X forwarding, which you can bounce through a tunnel, but XLib does not make any attempts to optimize for bandwidth. 

Server: Ubuntu 10.04 LTS x64 (cloud server at rackspace) Trying to get a better handle on iptables. All traffic should be dropped coming in except SSH and HTTP. All outgoing is safe. no forwards. The code I have below is based on a sample I found however I can not find any docs to explain what the range is for filters, for example ":INPUT DROP [0:65536]" What is the 0:65536 suppose to set? I guessed port range so I gave it the full range, but then outgoing has it defaulting to much higher. It was different but changing it does not seem to effect anything. What does it do? Second, while traffic is blocked a nmap scan with full connect "-sT" still shows some 20-30 ports as open but banner grabbing with netcat does not show anything. Is that normal? My method for testings is (as root). iptables -F iptables -L (check its flushed) iptables-restore < iptables.test.rules iptables.test.rules 

For anyone else wondering, yes you will experience a terrible loss in performance with 840 EVO drives if TRIM isn't supported. We had servers in production with writes 24/7 and performance dropped considerably to about 10% of when the drive was new. I was very unhappy with our hosting provider for putting poor consumer grade drives in production servers. Good SSDs are the Intel S3500/S3700. 

Summary I am using ARR for zero downtime blue/green deployment for a virtual application. GET requests work, yet POST requests via ARR to a ASP.NET site running in a Virtual Application returns a 502.3 error after the timeout specified in ARR. Failed Request Tracing shows BytesReceived="0" as if the POST request is missing. POST requests work fine if made directly to the site behind ARR. Set Up I have set up Application Request Routing (ARR) to act as a reverse proxy to two websites on the same server where only one of them is marked Healthy at a time. This is to achieve zero downtime ASP.NET deploys so can warm up the site before sending traffic to it. Our web application consists of two code bases, with one of them as the root website, and the second as a virtual application at . Hence requests to go to the virtual application. It is only this second code base that I wish to use ARR for. WEB -> -> Server Farm -> or There's a URL Rewrite rule on the Server which redirects any request with that specific subdomain and path /app* to the web farm. SiteA and SiteB are set up to each have a virtual application too with path . The Issue GET returns the page with a login form. A POST request with the filled in form fields causes a 502 error after the timeout specified in the Server Farm Proxy settings. I can categorically state the application is not timing out - it returns within 200ms when making the same request direct to the site instead of via ARR. Failed Request Tracing There is a gap in the timestamp between and for whatever is set in the Server Farm Proxy timeout (have tried 30, 60, 300 seconds). Here is the output: - 

I've been fairly happy with RackMonkey. It allows me to define the apps that run on the bare metal, what hosts do what functions, where Staging is for the app, where Development is for the app, etc. It's also just perl/sqlite3 so it's easy to extend the functionality. 

The name argument directly after is freeform and can be anything. The name is supposedly only used internally inside Monit for purposes of notification. As long as you specify the pid file, monit does not care what the name of the process is. See their docs (search for procmatch): $URL$ 

So you could specify any number of check cycles between checks for your expensive check. Configure Monit to have the check interval you desire. 

A bandaid approach would be to listen non a non-privileged port, then redirect with xinetd from the privileged port. 

To completely block traffic you could do an iptables drop command for the outbound traffic to that dst address. ie