You can modify your caption style definitions so that they include a numbering setting (right-click the style name, click Modify, and click Numbering). You can then have, e.g., 'Table x:' or 'Figure y:' automatically added at beginning of every paragraph that uses each style. (By default, the autogenerated text will have a tab after it, but you can change that to a space by right-clicking a paragraph in each style and clicking Adjust List Indents.) The downside of this approach is that you'll have to manually insert a paragraph for each caption and manually apply the style to it. Still, if you're currently using the Insert Caption option on the ribbon or the right-click menu, instead of relying on Word's AutoCaption feature, the overall number of steps will be about the same. Otherwise, barring some code-based solution, your only option is to keep manually applying your different styles after Word inserts the captions in Caption style. There are no settings in the UI that would let you specify that different paragraph styles should be automatically applied to different types of caption. 

You can add a white border to the paragraphs to get the correct amount of white space that you want after each heading. 

On the Header & Footer Tools > Design tab, in the Options group, select both Different First Page and Different Odd & Even Pages. In the first-page footer (or header – wherever you want the page number to appear), just insert the page number as usual. In the even-page footer/header, insert this field code: . (Take the actual page number of every even page, and divide by 2, so that page 2 become numbered as 1, page 4 as 2, and so on.) In the odd-page footer/header, insert this field code: . (Take the actual page number of every odd page after page 1, divide by 2, convert the result to an integer, which effectively rounds it down, and then add 1, so that page 3 becomes numbered as 2, page 5 as 3, and so on.) 

Yes, it can be done. Here's how I did it. Because of the duplicated text, I don't consider this a very 'proper' solution, but it gives the desired result and doesn't require manual TC entries. You can, of course, adjust font sizes, paragraph spacing, and positioning to fine-tune everything as you require. For this, I assume that you'll use the Heading 1 style for chapter headings. 

As to the caption: If you don't want it numbered, just type the caption text in a paragraph, and turn on the paragraph's Keep with next setting. (You should also turn on that setting for the paragraphs in the header row, so that you don't end up with just the header row at the bottom of a page.) As to the page break when you set Text wrapping to None: It sounds as though you have the Allow row to break across pages setting turned off, and/or some of the paragraphs have the Keep with next setting turned on. 

On the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Multilevel List > Define New Multilevel List. In the dialog box, click Set for All Levels, and set the Bullet/Number position for first level field to 0 pt, and make sure that the Additional indent for each level field is also set to 0 pt. You can also adjust the Text position for the first level value if you think there's too much space between the numbers and the heading text. Or, if you just want a regular space character there instead of a tab space, back in the main dialog box, click More, and change the value of the Follow number with field from Tab character to Space. If you don't want Word to convert numbers that you manually type to autonumbering in the first place, so that you don't have to worry about this issue, click File > Options > Proofing. Click AutoCorrect Options, and then, on the AutoFormat As You Type tab, clear the Automatic numbered lists check box. 

If it's the document shown below, the spacer isn't a row; it's just a regular text paragraph between adjacent sub-tables. The paragraph style is called Spacer. Check out the list of Styles for the document to see the full set of properties. 

Yes, don't use tables. For one thing, the headings won't show in the navigation pane (if that's important to you). The page that DavidPostill linked to gives the basic info, but if you're using a recent version of Word, some of the information about frames on that page is a bit dated. You don't need to use the Developer tab to insert a frame. That page also doesn't explain how to add the vertical line down the left side of the body text. 

No, if you insert a custom TOC, you must manually type the title (heading) and apply the appropriate paragraph style to it (e.g., TOC Heading). However, if you're adamant that the heading should be automatically inserted, there's an alternative (but it's much more work). If you want the TOC to include just Heading 1 paragraphs but to otherwise look exactly like one of Word's default TOC styles, you can insert a TOC in that default style, select the TOC, right-click, click Toggle Field Codes, and then edit the field code directly so that it specifies that the TOC should include just 1 level (for example, change in the field definition to ). Then press F9 to update the field. In the Update Table of Contents dialog box, select Update entire table, and then click OK. If you're not that proficient or comfortable manually editing field codes, you can select the field code (while it's still toggled, as described above), right-click, click Edit Field, and then, in the Field dialog box that opens, click the Table of Contents button. Then, in the Table of Contents dialog box, you can set the Show levels field to 1. When you click OK, you'll be asked whether you want to replace the current TOC. Click Yes. In both cases, the TOC should now show just 1 level but should retain the heading that's part of the default TOC style. Changes that you make to the TOC definition in this way will be retained if you later update the TOC. 

Word marks the differences between documents as tracked changes. So you can navigate among them the same way that you navigate among tracked changes – e.g., by using the Previous and Next buttons in the Changes group on the Review tab. (Make sure that All Markup is selected in the Display for Review field in the Tracking group.) 

Select the cropped picture, and then, on the Format tab, in the Adjust group, click Compress Pictures. In the dialog box, the Delete cropped areas of pictures check box is selected by default. Click OK. Alternatively, you can click File > Options > Advanced, and then, under Image Size and Quality, select the Discard editing data check box. Then, when you save and reopen the file, the cropped areas will no longer be part of the picture and therefore won't be included when you save it. Image resolution shouldn't be affected. If you want this behavior to be used for every new document, you can select All New Documents in the drop-down in the section heading. I should add that, for both options, if you're concerned about loss of image quality, in that same section of Advanced options, you might want to adjust Word's Default resolution setting to something higher (for example, Word 2016 has a High fidelity option). This setting affects images when you insert them into Word. Therefore, it will almost certainly affect those images if you later save them back out of Word. 

If your section ends on an odd page, and you want a numbered (but otherwise blank) even page to follow, insert a page break at the end of the odd page. This page break is in addition to your section break. 

Instead of copying and pasting, click Save As, and select Plain Text as the file type. The .txt file that's generated will include the numbering from the Word doc and should open in Notepad by default (unless you've changed some settings) when you double-click it. 

Instead of inserting the content by using an field, on the Insert tab, in the Text group, click Object > Text from File. In the dialog box, select the file to insert, specify specific bookmarked sections of that file by clicking Ranges (if appropriate), and then click Insert. (If you were to do the same thing but click the drop-down arrow in the Insert button and then click Insert as Link, you'd end up with an field; so the two procedures are equivalent, except that one inserts static text, whereas the other inserts linked, updatable text.) 

In the first TOC, the headings for the List of Figures and List of Tables will be pulled in based on styles. In the second TOC, the chapter info (chapter number + tab space + chapter title) will be pulled in from the fields that you added. The various subheadings will be pulled in based on styles, using the autonumbering from the multilevel list that you set up. Here's my example: 

On the References tab, click Table of Contents > Custom Table of Contents. Set Show levels to 5, because you want your TOC to be 5 levels deep. Set the other options on this main screen to define the appearance of the TOC as you want. Click Options. The Styles and Outline levels check boxes will be selected. Select Table entry fields too. In the list under Available styles, scroll down and clear the number out of every field except the field for Heading 1; leave that set to 1. Click OK twice to insert the TOC.