A hard drive in a RAID is just a hard drive. No More, No less. So, once you have transferred the contents of your RAID to your new larger drives, and you are left with two smaller, older hard drives... you can put each one in an external hard drive enclosure and use them as separate portable hard drives. $URL$ Take a look at those. There are two different kinds mixed in there... enclosures that would connect to SATA type drives (two plastic blades with copper contacts on the end of the drive), and enclosures that could connect to IDE type drives (two rows of multiple pins - 43 or 44 total depending on the drive). No fancy tools needed. Just purchase the appropriate one for your drives, connect the included USB converter to the end of the drive, slide it into the case, screw it closed... and connect to your computer via any available USB port. The first time you will need to format the drive, to wipe out any existing format, but after that, you can start storing music or movies, or whatever you want on the drive. Then, just store it away, take it with you... whatever you want. 

In general, I find that Videohelp.com is an invaluable resource for all things encoding... or video related for that matter. 

Change the IP subnet that the linksys router is on to match what the server is on. You already tried this, but you'd just need to turn off DHCP on the Linksys router, make sure that it was set to Automatic DHCP for the Internet Connection type from the Basic page at the Admin page. This should and can work, since I'm looking at the Admin panel of a Linksys WRT54G2 that is on my network right now. My main router (WRT160N) that handles DHCP has a DHCP reservation table entry for the second router, and the second router is set up with DHCP disabled. Any computer that connects to the WRT54G2 gets an IP from the main router on the same subnet. OR Setup a static route in the linksys router to the server. The destination would be 192.168.0.0, the subnet mask of 255.255.255.0 and the gateway of 192.168.0.1 (should do the trick) in the advanced routing off the setup page in your router admin panel Add a specific route on each Windows machine that you need to access the devices. from the machine that wants to access the printer, and from the machine that wants to access the server. Similar to the NAT settings. But this is the most restrictive, as it would require custom settings on each computer. 

You tested the both the replacement screen and the original screen on another laptop, so you know the screens themselves work fine. You question whether or not the problem could be the cabling that connects the screen to the motherboard. You did not mention if you checked to see if the cable was properly attached to the motherboard itself. This should be your next step, and it will require you to disassemble the laptop partially, depending on the model of the laptop... like removing the keyboard, and then the narrow panel at the top of the keyboard... or just that panel at the top of the keyboard if the screws that hold it in place don't require the keyboard to be removed. Under that panel should be the video cable connector. If the laptop was dropped during transit, this could have caused the connector to become dislodged. It could have also affected the battery terminal connections (depending on the severity of the drop) which could explain why the battery was not properly connected/seated until you removed it and put it back in. I'm not saying that the two problems are related necessarily. They could be related simply by the damage (impact?) that caused you to believe the screen was faulty. The fact that you can connect the laptop to an external monitor is a good indicator that the integrated video chipset is still functioning as it is supposed to. If you have checked the video cable connection to the motherboard and it is secure, and you have removed and reseated this connector yourself, and you have inspected the cable for any possible damage and find there is none... then the problem may indeed be a motherboard related one. However, I could most definitely check the cable connection to the motherboard and the condition of the entire video cable. 

Grab all the old hardware, and assemble your computer as it used to be. Follow these instructions for prepping your existing Windows 7 installation for the move. Install the hard drive in the new hardware. Since you do not have an optical drive, and thus you won't be able to use any of the installation discs for any of the new hardware (including a motherboard driver disc that probably has network drivers) you might want to download all the driver installation packages for all your new hardware BEFORE you prep the system for the move. Essentially, following those sysprep instructions will remove all hardware-specific drivers that could cause BSODs and conflicts when you connect the new hardware. It will also remove the existing activation to avoid your installation from being tagged as a pirated install. It will keep you from having to reinstall all your software too. So, all you will have to do after the move is activate the installation again, and install all the new drivers. EDIT adding the actual instructions to the answer... 

That's from this informative Wikipedia article. There is mention of how older command.com commands have been rolled into newer cmd.exe functionality... for example... 

If this is the adapter you are talking about, then there IS an adapter capable of passing audio from the SIIG displayport to the HDMI cable. Not saying that is the one necessarily... just saying the specifications do mention audio and video... so it may very well BE the adapter you should purchase. So, now the question becomes one of whether or not the Displayport on your laptop passes audio as well as video. The specifications page for that model at HP doesn't mention audio as an option through the display port at all. This post, however, seems to indicate that it is possible... there are only a few short posts in the thread, and no links to back up what is claimed there, but they blame the adapter... which should not be the case as there are adapters out there which will pass audio. Now, from Notebookreview.com, there was a thread called the HP8740w owners lounge. In that thread, there is a posted solution... and it again has to do with the exact Displayport to HDMI adapter you use. I quote... 

At that point, you should have no issues connecting to your Homegroup, and accessing your designated shared/public directories. 

Most definitely yes. Consider the Malware infections that "emulate" an Anti-Virus program. You must know someone who complained about a mysterious program that just appeared one day, telling them they had 30-some infections, and if they wanted the program to remove them, they had to purchase the program. The names were varied, WinAV for example. All those people who got infected didn't download a program first, and then find themselves infected. I know from observation that all it took was visiting a web site. Everything you do with a browser downloads information to your computer. So, there is always something being pushed to you. There are steps you can take to limit what is downloaded, but for those just using a vanilla install of IE (the most targeted browser), there was a real danger of getting infected depending on where they went on the web. It wasn't just limited to seedy sites either. In the mid 2000's, Sears.com would install spyware on visitors machines. NHL.com was used maliciously by one of it's advertisers to infect visitors with malware. Then there is Myspace. I've cleaned customers machines from fake AV infections after they spend a night surfing friends pages at Myspace. Now, are you asking if it is possible for you specifically to get an infection that way? Well, you don't use IE, and that helps, but otherwise, since we really know nothing about your surfing habits and the other software on your system, it is impossible to say. 

Depends on the laptop. Typically, two ports are paired up on one hub and split a max amperage limit. So if that hub was capped at 2A, the two USB devices connected to it would not be allowed to draw more than 2A total. As to your specific laptop, I have no idea if all 4 of your ports are on one hub, or what your wattage limit would be. You never got specific on the make and model. 

Before you go looking for Flash support for these devices, you should have confirmed whether or not the site was flash based. 

That is all that Sony Vegas 10 is compatible with, according to them. Which means the installer could simply reject any other OS it is installed on. Now, you didn't say whether you are talking about a W2k3 IA-32, X64, or IA-64 install. I suppose it could detect the IA-32 Intel 32 bit version as some kind of Windows XP 32 bit version... because people have installed Vegas 10 on Windows server 2008, which is based on Windows NT 6.x... and Vegas 10 supports both 32 bit and 64 bit for Windows NT 6.x. I'm guessing you did not install the 32 bit version of Windows Server 2003? EDIT you asked for ideas... does this qualify? 

This is at the point where you activated it. Otherwise, if you want to try JollysFastVNC, download it there. Of course, if you have already enabled this, and/or Jolly'sFastVNC doesn't work for you... this answer is useless. EDIT I found this to be interesting, posted on the JollyFastVNC page... 

To deal with the many comments and points brought up, I have edited the answer yet again. Is the BIOS an Operating System? Well, if an operating system is defined as software that allows a user to interact with the hardware of a “computer” then yes… technically and literally it is an Operating System. Does Task Switching define what makes an Operating System? Considering that MS-DOS was a valid Operating System, and up until version 5 Task Switching was not supported, task switching does not affect whether or software is an Operating System. Does Virtualization of Memory define what makes an Operating System? Again, using MS-DOS as an example, although support could be added for memory virtualization by running extenders during the loading process, it was not necessary to use them. Thus, memory virtualization also is not a prerequesite to what makes up an Operating System. If it is stored in Firmware, is it an OS? Some would argue that a router doesn’t use an Operating System. For example, there appears to be contention as to whether DD-WRT is considered an Operating System. Are there devices that store an Operating System in Firmware? Modern phones, iPods, and more store complex operating systems that can have programs added to them in Firmware. So, just because an OS is loaded into Firmware, this does not exclude the software in question from being considered an Operating System. If you can’t add programs, it’s not an Operating System. Step away from a modern smartphone. Look at a cheap disposable cell phone. It has an Operating System stored in Firmware, but you cannot add programs. It runs as it is, and only with the functionality that is offered. You navigate through the menus as you would any other OS, you choose what you want to do (play games, etc) and with a good number of them from a few years back, they did not have the ability to add any additional software. If it is not modern, is it not an Operating System? The point in history at which the OS was created and launched has no bearing on whether or not it is an Operating System. So, the BIOS may not be pretty, and it may not offer you extreme functionality. However, it is still an Operating System. 

..of course, you could just use two wall plates, and just be consistent between them. The reason why this is going to be difficult? 

... I get the impression that you don't actually have video drivers installed. Windows wouldn't be using Standard VGA Graphics Adapter if you had the correct video drivers installed. Of course, if you had booted to Safe Mode, and Windows disabled your video drivers temporarily for the session, then it would use them. Otherwise, it shouldn't. According to the driver download page from HP, you've got your Intel HD Graphics 3000 for normal usage, and AMD Mobilty Radeon HD 6470M for hard core (gaming, etc) usage. So, I would start here at HP, choose which of the three listed fits you, then choose the operating system (not just Win7 64 bit, but which one), and go to Driver - Graphics. Download both the AMD and the Intel installers, and install both. Then, see if Movie Maker will work properly. 

Not every video card supports this feature. If your video card does not support TV out through VGA, then you need an actual scan converter like this to convert VGA to composite. EDIT Ok. The computer is a Windows 7 PC. You still need to look up the product page for the specific video card that is in that computer (or integrated video chipset) in order to know if it supports TV out over VGA. That, or you need to edit your question again to supply that exact information here so we can look it up for you. 

Migrating from the comments... Use Fn + F2 to turn the wireless on. That's the hardware keyboard shortcut that is independent of the operating system. 

However, the iMac's Wireless IP isn't that at all. You have observed that it is instead 169.254.51.168. This is (at least) one of the reasons why it isn't working. Manually set the iMac's Wireless IP address to 192.168.2.1, with a subnet of 255.255.255.0. It should work. Or, you'll be one step closer. The real reason why it stopped working is the same reason the iMac's WiFi changed its IP address. 

You could actually just open up the program normally (double click on the orange headphones in the system tray, for example), and click on the Advanced Tab 

In all your comments and the answers here, there is no mention of trying a different power supply. It could simply be that the PSU has failed due to a surge and/or storm while you were away for those three days. It could also be time for the PSU to fail, depending on the make of it. Just because the system gets power for that brief moment doesn't mean that the PSU is working properly. If you have another PSU around, try it. EDIT how to test a PSU with a multimeter. 

At the end, again, providing the OEM key has never been used before, it should activate. If it does not, then your next call should be to Amazon to exchange this purchase for another of the same. Yes, I would take this to be some kind of fluke. I would describe the issue to them, and rather than demanding a refund I would just ask them to provide another of the same. This will make them more likely to actually just ship it out. They might give you some flak about it being software, etc... just be clear and sure about the fact that Microsoft is repeatedly telling you that it isn't a valid product key. From what I'm reading, there are plenty of people installing OEM versions of Windows 7 on Macs via Bootcamp... it actually seems quite popular. Most of their posted issues are with attempting to use the same copy for the installation AND a VM installation, and having to activate it twice in that instance. This is NOT the issue you are facing, but I'm including that information because they have no issues with an OEM copy of Windows 7 for the first activation. They run into issues when attempting to install it again, in a VM (or Parallels) and try to activate it a second time on what may (and can) appear to be different hardware. Their first activation (just like yours) works like a charm. So try the Automated Phone Activation System.