Apologies for the late answer, but hopefully someone will find this useful. I am using this python package on my pi, and its fantastic! Uses the google recognition engine (the one used in chrome and "okay google") which is arguably the best for accuracy, as well as supporting free form dictation which depending on your needs, could be a real benefit (would allow for example googling a non pre-determined phrase) Only drawback is that it requires an internet connection, and the API key is only for personal use and development, so if you are planning on launching a commercial product, this will not be viable for you. Hope this helps. 

There are multiple examples on using the HD44780 display with Raspberry Pi, you just have to use a more commonly used tag for the display - the 2x16 (which obviously refers to 2 rows of 16 characters). It often also helps to look for examples on YouTube, where you will find videos showing working examples together with code explanation. 

Raspberry Pi will most likely work flawlessly with this PSU. Keep in mind it may not be as well regulated as the PSUs designed for Raspberry Pis, mobile phones and other digital devices. They may fry your board. You have to make sure that the PSU supplies "clean" voltage (without voltage spikes, both overvoltage and undervoltage) before using it. I recommend getting a known brand name PSU, because it'll still be cheaper thing to do than replacing a Pi fried by a dodgy power supply. That said, I was successfully using a PSU designed for LEDs to power my NAS when its original plugpack failed. It was a temporary solution, before I replaced the plugpack. 

I am currently using my pi2 as a face-recognition log in system, written in python, which is mounted on the wall on the other side of the room. I am trying to be able to connect to it via putty, over wifi and work with the program remotely. The pi is connected to a HDMI monitor to display information, however when I log into the pi via putty and run "STARTLXDE" a blank desktop loads, with no processes running. I assume this is a completely different X GUI accessing the file system, then the one that normally runs on the pi (with startx). My question is: How can I remote to the normal desktop that is running my script over WiFi, preferably via putty and ssh (As I want to avoid tightVNC, so please don't suggest it) Any suggestions will be greatly appreciated. EDIT: I don't know if this is important but (more information > less information).. I am using Raspbian and the desktop that comes up in xming looks suspiciously like NOOBS. I am using X11 port forwarding 

Double check your IP Address, for one thing. use on Mac/Linux and on Windows to check where your router's page is. Enter the IP address into your web browser, and look on the list of connected devices on there. If it's not there, make sure that your computer and Pi are on the same WiFi. If your computer's on Ethernet, connect it to the same WiFi just to be sure. Also, type , then make sure that ssh is enabled. 

Windows 10 IoT basically is a skeleton of Windows 10 for you to test apps on. Once it came out, there was no GUI, and unless you're making an app for Windows 10, there's not much point for installing it. I learned that the hard way... 

The rainbow square is an undervoltage indicator. This means that either your PSU is too weak (not the case as yours can supply 2A), faulty (providing less than 5V under load), or the cabling you are using it with is too thin (thin wires have higher resistance, which makes the voltage drop more under load) - this is often the case with cheaper, low quality cables. Replacing your PSU with 2.5A one is unlikely to help. I'd rather try powering your HDD from other source than the Pi's port though. A powered ('active') USB hub would most likely do the trick, or you could make an 'USB power injector' yourself if you're familiar with using a soldering iron. 

The Galaxy S5 Charger gives an optimal amperage for the Raspberry pi, however its voltage is slightly higher than optimal. The RasPi should work with the Xperia Z2, but if the Red light is not steady, that means it has too little power. The S5 charger should be ok, but use it at your own risk... 

That would work fine, as long as you shutdown the Pi. If your SD is 16GB+, you can cram 2/3 OSes onto it using NOOBS. When you start it up, it gives a menu asking which one. 

I am using my Pi2 to run some Python scripts that are heavily use the CSI camera (being pulled with the picamera module), being processed with OpenCV, and draw a GUI to screen (using the PyGame module) I would like to improve the speed/performance in these areas, which is why I plan to split my memory (giving more to the GPU), but before I do this, I wondered how much of my code is likely to actually be processed by the GPU. I understand the GPU is for all graphic tasks, however the code that performs these tasks run concurrently and are presumably being processed originally by the CPU? and with regards to pulling frames from the CSI camera, I have no idea if this would be a task for the GPU or not? So I suppose my question is, in these two areas, is it worth putting all my eggs in the GPU basket, or just going for a even split? Thanks. 

One way is to simply rewire the light switches so that when you turn on the GPIO using Python, it closes the circuit. You can do that for a few light switches, but you might want to use several Raspberry Pis. This might also be helpful: $URL$ 

$URL$ This link states: 4 flashes: start.elf not launched It probably means your NOOBS got a bad case of corruption. If you used the same file stored on your computer each time, download it from the RasPi website again. Question: did you see the happy-rainbow-GPU screen? 

I am using a python script to access my NoIr Pi camera module via the "picamera" package. Yesterday everything was working fine. Today everything is still working fine, however whenever I close my python scrpit, the red LED stays on, and it appears that the pi is still trying to use the camera. When run my script again, it is unable to access the camera due to lack of resources (I.e the previous closed script still has access to the camera) After a quick reboot I can run my script again, but its getting a little tedious having to reboot every time I make a change when trying to debug my script. Any idea's? Update - Code as requested 

I'm afraid that the most effective thing you can do is to overclock your Pi (there's an option for that in raspi-config). You may want to put a heatsink on the CPU chip to prevent overheating. This should give you a couple percent performance increase. Adding swap on a USB HDD will not increase performance at all, since your Pi only supports USB 2.0, which is pretty slow, so using a HDD plugged into that as a 'RAM extension' wouldn't be effective. 

Looks like you weren't familiar with the config file. Do you maybe remember what did you put into this file? As for editing the config file, you don't have to do this from another computer, you can use HDMI output and a USB keyboard to log in and re-edit the file. 

Minecraft pi may seem like a Minecraft port for Raspberry Pi allowing you to play multiplayer and use all of the functionality of Minecraft. However, looks can be decieving. Instead, Minecraft Pi allows you to controll an environment with Python, in order to construct a world and understand code through the GUI of a simplified Minecraft. Unless they push an update (, then ), you won't need internet. Cheers! 

You may not have formatted the SD Card properly. I personally use the creatively named "SDFormatter" (blue SD Card logo) to format the cards first.