I've never attempted to restore a deleted individual mailbox and figure it's a good thing to have tried for when/if it's actually needed. I have a full backup from Monday (today is Wednesday), i have the GRT options checked in the backup for Exchange, I can browse through the backup job and find a particular employee's mailbox that I removed on Tuesday. My question is, is it as simple as selecting that checkbox and submitting the job? His account no longer exists on the network because he is no longer employed with us, i figured it was a good person to try this on. I see an option in Backup Exec that says "automatically recreate user accounts and mailboxes", so i assume i would select that as well. I guess it just seems too easy, and since this is a production server i wanted to ask around before attempting to restore this individual mailbox back. Anyone have any experience with this? Thanks. 

I am currently having issues with being able to authenticate with RADIUS from our Cisco devices…it seems to partially work but I’m missing something apparently, hoping some experts can point me in the right direction. I have an ASA 5510 and VPN configured on it. I have Windows Server 2008 R2 setup with the NPS role acting as the RADIUS server (only, not using NAP, etc, just setup for RADIUS). I setup VPN recently and it seems to be working fine, but now I’m trying to configure it so that I can use my AD credentials to login to our switches as well, but I can’t get it to divide the two…for instance, all Domain Users can use VPN, but only the NetworkGroup should be able to access the other Cisco devices. Under RADIUS Clients I have created a client named VPN, it has the IP address of our inside interface on the ASA, Device Manufacturer as Cisco and Enabled. I have a client named Switch with the IP address of the switch I’m testing on, Cisco as Device Manufacturer and Enabled. Under Policies > Connection Request Policies there is the default “Use Windows authentication for all users” which only has a Day/Time restriction as a condition but allows access anytime, under settings it has Authentication Provider – Local Computer and Override Authentication Disabled. I’ve added one called VPN (with open time restrictions and IPv4 address condition) and one called Switch (with open time restrictions and IPv4 address condition) here as well, thinking that’s what was needed, but during testing I find that I can disable them and it works just fine…but from reading I read there must be at least one policy in effect. I can disable the default one, but when I setup one of the others with the same credentials it doesn’t seem to take, I can’t login from the switch, I get error “Access denied - Using keyboard-interactive authentication.” If I enable the default CR Policy, it works again right away…basically it seems that it doesn’t care if I have or don’t have a policy in there for each device (and maybe I shouldn’t ?). Under Policies > Network Policies I’ve added two policies as well, one called Switch and one called VPN. The Switch policy is set with the condition of User Groups-Domain\NetworkGroup. Under settings I have: Cisco-AV-Pair with a value of shell:priv-lvl=15. Extended State with a value of blank. Access Permission with a value of Grant Access. Authentication Method with a value of Unencrypted authentication (PAP, SPAP). Nap Enforcement with a value of Allow full network access. Update Noncompliant Clients with a value of True. Service-Type with a value of Login. BAP percentage of Capacity with a value of Reduce Multilink if server reaches 50% for 2 minutes. Some of these settings I set in testing, others were there by default. The VPN policy is set with a condition of User Groups-Domain\DomainUsers. Under settings I have: Ignore User Dial-In Properties with a value of True. Access Permission with a value of Grant Access. Authentication Method with a value of Unencrypted authentication (PAP, SPAP) or MS-CHAP v1 OR MS-CHAP v1, OR MS-CHAPV2. Nap Enforcement with a value of Allow full network access. Update Noncompliant Clients with a value of True. Framed-Protocol with a value of PPP. Service-Type with a value of Framed. Some of these settings aren’t the same because I’ve been going back and forth for a couple of days trying different scenarios, so I’m honestly not sure if some of them are necessary… I do know that if I disable that one default policy under CR-Policy, I can’t login to the switch… if I disable the RADIUS client, I can’t login to the switch (makes sense), but if I disable the Switch Network Policy it still lets me login…assuming it’s just rolling down and taking the credentials from the VPN Network Policy which allows DomainUsers to login, and I’m in that group as well… So the outcome I’m striving for (sorry for such a long question, but trying to be as informative as possible!) is that I would like any of our end users in the DomainUsers AD group to be able to use VPN and dial up successfully, but not allow them to be able to remote into our switches and login the same way. I want only the NetworkGroup AD account to be able to login to those. How can I give access to both, securely? Sounds simple enough, and it looks simple on top but for the life of me it’s not working…if I take away the Switch Policy it still lets an end user (testing with an end user test account) login to my switch with the normal AD login (getting allowed by the VPN policy I assume). Please feel free to ask any questions or clarification, and thanks in advance for any help you can give! 

Google for "mmc snap-in registry location" Open regedit and go to HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\MMC\Snapins Install Hyper-V Management Tool and check the new snap-in's ID in this location If snap-in is already installed, just browse the keys and find related snap-in and its ID 

Now you know your snap-in's ID, you need to use it in GPO. There are couple of ways to do that. You can edit the administrative template file () you used before and add a new policy section with Hyper-V snap-in's ID, or, you can use admx file to see what is modified in registry when you change that Group Policy setting and deploy correct settings with GP preferences. Instead, I just changed one of the settings using gpedit.msc , opened in notepad to see what it changed, opened regedit and added the new key with snap-in's ID and value. After testing to see if it worked, you can export it and deploy it using GP preferences. 

You can use Activity Log from the new portal. It's under Management Services - Operation Logs in the old portal. 

It basically resets your DNS setting to get the DNS server that your DHCP provides, and converts it to a static setting adding 8.8.8.8 in the end. "Wi-Fi" is my network connection's name. Yours might be "Local Area Connection", "Ethernet" or something like that. This might also work. 

I've read that it's fairly normal to have several ARP requests per second on the network, but was curious if someone could elaborate on the "why" I would have so many versus not? Over the course of 4 seconds I see about 40 arp requests, right about 10 per second, and all reqeusts seem to be from valid IPs on our network with a known server or PC. Is that many normal? If so, what is the purpose? I've never thought much of it thinking that since it wasn't several hundred a second it was "ok", but my boss recently looked at network monitor and saw them and said that at his previous job they didn't have that many requests, and the network was much larger than ours currently is. So I was just hoping someone could explain to me a bit more about this and if it's anything I should be concerend about or check more deeply into. I definitely want to avoid any network congestion that I can, to allow the network to run as smoothly as possible. Thanks in advance. 

I'm trying to automate the uninstall/install of Office. Removing 2007, installing 2010. I've downloaded the OCT and made changes as I needed. In there I can select, "Remove the following earlier versions of Microsoft Office Programs:" and you can select which to remove (default Remove All), or you can select the option "Default Setup behavior; earlier versions of installed programs are removed." Initially I tried the Default Option, but it gave me the below error. Then I tried manually selecting the second option but leaving them all as "Remove". Same results. I'm trying to get this done via group policy and have downladed and installed the ADM template as well, create a GPO for this OU to test in, etc. Using 2008 Server. I've seen others online with the same error, and instructions are typically "remove the old version first" or use a third party tool (Revo), which I have used in the past with success, but on an individual uninstall/install basis, not via GPO. My end result is for a laptop to boot up on a given day, references the GPO, if it has 2007 it uninstalles 2007 and installs 2010. Here is the error I'm getting, I'm sure it's nothing new as it's fairly prevelant online. 

There's no PDC or BDC after Windows NT4 . Every DC can make changes in AD data. Latest change wins. So, yes, you can make the update on any DC and it will be replicated to all of them in the same domain. If you change the same attribute on 2 different DCs at the same time, latest change will overwrite. 

You can edit administrative template file and see what is changed if you enable any of the settings in that GPO section. It'll show you that it's using the ID of the snap-in and the value with a value of . 

nsupdate can't do that. The first parameter after "delete" is "name" of the record. You're trying to delete with "data" of the record. You can scan the zone file, find matching records, add them to a file with a format that nsupdate understands and feed it to nsupdate. 

If you're able to ping www.google.com , you're all set. Services and ports part is only for port forwarding from outside to inside. You should check your antivirus on the host. Easiest way is to disable it and try again. If it works, you can look for the specific setting. 

You can block DHCP traffic on Windows 7 with its local Windows Firewall and add PXE options on your other DHCP server if it's possible. So, everyone gets IP address and PXE information from a single server. 

I recently installed a second Exchange Server (standard, 2010) to our organization as part of a Disaster Recovery solution. The two servers will soon be part of a DAG. Before placing the server at our remote location I was curious as to the amount of data that is transferred back and forth between the two servers. Is there a way to monitor or get a daily report of how much data is transferred per second and/or per day between the two? I would like to have an average metric so as to know if our current connection will be saturated or not. Thanks for any help you can offer. 

We currently use Public Folders with Exchange 2010. We have a series of shared calendars throughout the organization. Some of the items posted require us to set up devices (video conferencing for example) at a certain time, but the end users who schedule these appointments aren't always the best at letting us know when it is (even though it's supposed to be several days in advance/notice). Other than the obvious way of just going out to those individual calendars multiple times a day to look, is there a way to have Exchange (or powershell, Outlook, etc) alert us via email when an event has been created? For instance if Powershell could go to the Public Folder database, search for any entries added within the last 12 hours, then email me to let me know. Even if I could set it to run once a day, each morning at 7.30 am, that would be a huge help. Thoughts? Thanks! 

That's not a requirement. The article mentions it as a best practice because it's important to have the same patch level across all of your nodes to avoid incompatibilities and surprises. If your WSUS servers are synced, it shouldn't be a problem. 

If you read "The [homes] section" on this page, it says that //server/myusername is cloned on the fly from //server/homes . So, you need to make homes not browseable, aka 

These are the privileges. You already know what permissions are. If you think about it , there isn't a distinct line between them tho. "Allow log on locally" is a privilege , but, when you add a user there, you're just giving them permission to log on to that computer. Again, you can say that permissions are given on resources, but, "computer" is also a resource in my example above. Instead of trying to understand what they are called, you should learn the list of privileges from the web page I linked above. That is the whole list and that will help you solve your problems. 

You can't do it the way you want. As long as Windows DNS server sees itself auhoritative for the zone, it won't ask anywhere else. And, your clients will not look for the missing records in Tux, even if you tell them to use it as secondary. If Tux support dynamic updates, you can use it as your primary DNS server for Active Directory as well. Like this You should've used a subdomain for your AD domain name. Consider it, if it's not too late. 

This may be a somewhat simplified question, but I've read online quite a bit and have found very little on the comparison. We are a smaller shop, approximately 200 users. Currently our Exchange mailbox quotas are set at 400MB. For as long as I can remember we've had users archive email as they fill up their mailbox, so we have more .psts floating around than we would like. I've looked into the archiving feature of Exchange, and it looks nice, but I'm having a hard time determining why I would go that route (for the cost, would be about 12K for licensing) versus just having more hard drive space on the server and increasing everyone's mailbox limit to 10GB (for example). I would imagine having their primary mail on one server and archive on another would be ideal for balancing the load/stress on the system, but with our small shop we only have the one server/database and had planned on putting the archive database on the same server anyway. We plan to deploy DAG with a DR site in the near future as well. So, other than being able to give our legal department more capabilities with the discovery process, is there any benefits I'm not seeing here? Also, we are currently on Office 2007, from what I read a lot of features aren't usable unless you are running 2010, so that would be something else to take into consideration I suppose. But anyway, I would appreciate some thoughts on this from those who have used both ways and are more "in the know" than I am with regards to Exchange/archiving. :) Thanks for your input! 

Did you try downloading and using SSMS 2014 to see if you can connect? This problem used to come up when using different versions of SSIS and SSMS. 

Why don't you just check "Log on" tab of those services? I think it's any of them tho. Did you find any events in Security log when you searched for that username? 

You need to get a certificate that has all those names as subject names or a wildcard certificate. So, single certificate will be used for all of them. After that, you can configure each website with that certificate and SNI. 

If you're just trying to redirect example.net web site visitors to example.com , that's what you should do. Point example.net A DNS record to example.com's IP address. After that, you have a couple of options; -Create a new website on your host that accepts example.net visitors and redirect them using HTML/Javascript in your index page , or using your server's redirection capabilities. -On your single website, check to see if visitors' URL matches example.net and redirect them to example.com using Javascript in your index page. Pick one. 

You're using SQL login, right? Not Windows authentication. SPN is used for Windows authentication (Kerberos) when both the client and server are members of the domain. I think there's another problem that prevents you from connecting to your SQL server. Might be routing issue,firewall, port configuration for SQL service or antivirus. Try disabling the Windows Firewall on SQL server and connecting again to see if it's related to firewall. Same goes for antivirus. For port configuration, you can verify it using SQL Server Configuration Manager and running command to see if port is . 

Actually, I just figured out what it was. I was passing in -assecurestring but it wasn't actually returning the password I entered. Apparently I was barking up the wrong tree. :) Thanks for your time! 

This may be more than what you're looking to do, but here's how we use RDP for remote users who aren't using VPN. We recently started using the RD Gateway Manager with Remote Desktop Services, a role in Windows 2008. We have it setup to go through our TMG server and directly to a users machine. It uses NLA as mentioned above. The user connecting has to be a member of the right AD group, and a member of the right local group to be allowed access. Depending on how you want it setup, you can connect via a webpage which basiclly opens up mstsc and inputs the proxy setting for the RD Gateway, or you can set the settings on your machine manually so that each time you open it it attempts to go through that proxy. So far it has worked quite well and seems to be secure. 

On the phone screen I click Next. It says USB connection is detected, I click Skip (only option is Skip or Menu). It asks me for my extension or phone number. I put the number in that is assigned to me on the Lync Server (I set it to 5551212 and verified in AD that the number I put in is the same as the msRTCSIP-Line field. I click Next, then enter my PIN (I also reset my PIN to make sure it was valid). I click Sign in, it says "Contacting time server" for a bit, then "Connecting to Lync Server" for just a split second, then quickly an error flashes that says "Account used is not authorized, please contact your support team". Afterward it goes to the screen saying "An account matching this phone number cannot be found. Please contact your support team." I see looking at the menu/system information on the phone that it grabbed an IP address from the DHCP server (and verify it is shown in leases), the mask and GW/DNS are all set correctly. I did notice VLAN ID is set to 1...which we don't use, but I don't see a way to change that to the VLAN ID we do use on our network (if that is even relevant?). I can't access the phone via the web or ping it, but my computer can use the built-in switch to work through it just fine. On the Lync server I have ran the test command -