Have you tried disabling windows firewall on the server? Can you ping (Or otherwise confirm connectivity) the proxy from the machine? What error message do you get from Internet Explorer? 

The two policies that are probably going to help you the most are in: User Configuration -> Policies -> Administrative Templates -> Windows Components -> Windows Explorer Hide these specified drives in My Computer Prevent access to drives from My Computer 

You don't - as such. The difference between a machine policy and a user policy is the place where those registry are - either in the machine registry or the user registry. If a piece of software (Or in this case Windows) only looks for one or the other, then that's that. However, you can still do what you need. Group Policy supports Loopback Policy Processing which allows the application of User Policies on a machine by machine basis. You will NEED to do some reading on this as Loopback can be a bit confusing and has some requirements, especially around the security filtering. The short story is that you'll configure Loopback - Merge mode on the computer side and in the same OU (I.e., the computer OU) you'll then configure your required display settings. When a user logs onto that machine, the user based policies for that OU will then be applied, along with their normal user OU policies. 

My forensics is a bit rusty, but I don't think this is going to be possible. File recovery programs work by scanning the hard drive at a low level for headers and footers of files. What it doesn't know (and can't know) is where that file sat in the file system. There is no "delete" flag - the easiest way to think of it is with the hard drive being a book and files being chapters. The Operating System has deleted all references from the Index and Table of Contents, deleted the chapter title and ripped the pages out. So while the text still exists, you can't know what the chapter was called or where it was in the book. Secondly, it's rule number 1 of data recovery that you never, ever, ever write to the drive you're recovering from. 

This may not be a technical answer, but I personally always prefix server names with some form of site code. It can, admittedly, make the FQDN a little unweildy especially if the domain name is similar to the prefix, but perhaps something like this: 

I don't have it on a clean Server 2008 R2 build, either, which could be correct according to this Technet article: $URL$ I do, however, have: 

I think you should go the multi-VLAN route - and not just because of the DHCP server issue. At the moment, you have one big flat network and while to some degree, users should be expected to take care of their own security, I'd personally find it a pretty unacceptable setup. The only switches that need to be managed are yours. Beyond that, you give each apartment a single port on a specific VLAN - anything downstream of that will be completely unaware of the VLAN and you can function normally. In terms of your switches - the switch-to-switch ports will need configuring as trunk ports and you will need to be consistent with your VLAN ID's. In other words, VLAN100 MUST correspond to VLAN100 everywhere else on the network. Other than that, you can set up a "Router-on-a-stick" configuration, with each VLAN (And it's associated pool of IP's*) configured only to route back and forth to the internet and NOT to other internal networks. *I couldn't think of anywhere else to stick this, but remember that ideally you should be giving your VLANs their own pool of IP's. The easiest way to do this is to keep one of the octets same as the VLAN ID, e.g. 

You don't if it's being parsed correctly by PHP (Which it should be), unless the server is your own and you have permissions to browse it locally / with FTP / etc That's the whole point. But I'll assume that the file isn't yours and you don't have access, so the answer is: You Don't. 

You'll need both the Domain Functional Level and the Forest Functional Level to be 2008 R2. To understand the differences, consult this page from Microsoft: $URL$ You'll note that there's no difference between 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 FFL - so that should be a safe operation. There are some minor differences between 2012 R2 and 2008 R2 DFL, however, and you'll need to research into those and ensure you're not relying on any of the features. 

I'm betting that you're using off the shelf consumer grade routers? That's basically your problem - they're not designed for it. I don't know of any wireless router that would have wireless disabled by default- it sounds like you need a wired router.. 

First things first, all security should be managed using NTFS permissions on the folder and share (Remember, these are 2 sets of permissions and are mutually exclusive) itself. To do this you'll need security groups, and there is no way round that. Not mapping somebody to a drive is not 'security'. Secondly, to MAP the drives, I'd be using Group Policy Preferences. As above, it won't handle the file and folder permissions, but it will let you map drives very easily and cleanly. Finally, the beauty of Group Policy Preferences is that if your environment suits it, they will allow to you use 1 single GPO to map many different shares for many different users, using item level tar targeting to filter based on OU, Security Groups etc. Seriously, if you've just moved to 2008 (And I kind of hope you meant 2008 R2 seeing as 2008 is already now 2 editions old) then read up on Group Policy Preferences. Oh, you may need to patch any XP / 2003 clients to get them to work. 

Have you tried resetting the BIOS? You may need to pull the CMOS battery if you can't get into the BIOS at all. 

There's absolutely no vulnerability here - you simply need to ensure your shares are secured properly. 

You have no persistent routes configured on your system, which means any you created were lost on a reboot. The only ones showing are dynamically added by Windows. Try adding your routes again but add "-p" to the end of the command. 

This really depends on what the application is, the OS, and how (together) they manage resources and deal with load. It absolutely can be more beneficial to have several lower spec VM's than one high spec VM, but whether it's a 'good idea' for you simply depends. 

Caution, terrible VBS follows. This is ripped straight from an old VBS script that I wrote to deploy user shortcuts and is essentially untested etc. It doesn't display the DN of the group, but it should be possible to implement. 

Which version of Server 2008 R2 are you using? Hot-Add memory is only supported in Enterprise onwards. 

You can't have two default gateways because it's an oxymoron. Another phrase for Default Gateway would be "Gateway of Last Resort", and two things can't be last. It may help you visualise this if you remember that Windows routing (And that includes your default gateway(s)) is a global setting for all NICs, IP's and interfaces. You may need to add the and option to the command. Please try with those options and then post the results of here if that doesn't help. Additionally, if you want this setting to persist across reboots, you will need to add after : 

I have a network appliance which contains some load balancing features - in my design, these features are only for use internally within the appliance. Nothing should EVER speak to them externally and, additionally, the client is low on IP addresses in the devices IP range. Would it be acceptable to use the Link-Local range for these features? For example, . NB: The device in question won't allow loopback IP's to be used for these features. 

The easiest way would be to us an EICAR test file. Create a text file and add in the following code: 

I'd be looking at long folders / file names rather than corruption as such. You may try resetting permissions, too. Alternatively, back up her My Docs. Delete the files, check redirection works and manually copy to the redirected folder. These steps may also highlight the original issue. 

What's your upload speed. I'm assuming this isn't a leased line, so it's almost certainly different to your download (I.e., quoted) speed. In short, I'm almost certain that this is a) Not an issue with your server b) Not a fault Also, I'm not understanding what the difference between "server speed" and "internet speed" is. Can you be cleared on your infrastructure? Finally, can you be clearer whether you're talking about Kilobits or Kilobytes and Megabits or Megabytes. A 20 Kilobyte per second upload is 160Kilobits, which is probably average for a 1Mb domestic broadband connections. 

No, without wireless hardware you have no way of detecting any other wireless devices. Additionally, I don't believe there is such as a device as a wireless modem. 

Replace en with the ISO 639-1 code of your choice. Alternatively, if you want to go the Sledghammer route you can disable translation by using a Google specific meta tag: 

For core information like you're describing (With the exception of a Network Diagram) we use a single Excel workbook, and save this into a network folder with the customers name. While I can understand why people don't like this approach I find it works great because it's a single reference document that I can take with me to site, e-mail around and update quickly. My biggest complaint would be lack of version control, but I've yet to find anything that works well without making life hard work. To counter your "I'm shooting for a process that's more portable, secure and elegant than a simple spreadsheet": More Portable: What can be more portable than a 500 Kilobyte Spreadsheet? I'd be scared of using anything cloud or webbased because internet connectivity can't be guaranteed. Secure: This one I'll give you and I too would like solutions on making our solution safer. Elegant: We spent time creating a nice template for our workbook. Like I say, this is a multi-sheet workbook, not just a huge page of scattered information. I think most IT documentation fits nicely into a tabular form and a spreadsheet keeps this very neat and simple. While I have lots of issues with how we record and store build documentation, I really can't find fault in a solid, well formated spreadsheet. I'll also add that we work with some big IT Services companies and they work in much the same way. Again, it's brilliant - I turn up to site, request the documentation and get a single neat spreadsheet that I can use for the duration. 

I really doubt it, but more to the point, I'd strongly recommend against it. Even if technically it works it's going to be so horrendously confusing to diagnose issues that I would never even entertain the idea. 

Catering sounds like a nice easy way to group machines / users, so in this instance, I would suggest that it would be much more transparent and maintainable to apply this to a Catering OU (Or OU's) or a Catering security group. Leave WMI filters for when you have no choice. In my experience, they're rarely used because there is generally a better way forward. 

It's a little unclear what you're trying to achieve and why, but I think batch scripting is the wrong tool for the job (Especially in 2013). Powershell will give you far more predictable results and allow you provide far better reliability, for example: 

You can then select that whole column, copy and paste it notepad and voila - a batch file which will do what you need. 

You're being painfully vague, but they're saying that they'll create a service account for your service to log in as and run under. However, there is no actual concept of "service accounts" in Active Directory or locally*, so in every way this is just a standard user with whatever rights are required etc. They may choose to restrict it as much as is reasonably possible (NB: Or, they may not!) but ultimately it's going to need access to some things for your software to work. If somebody got hold of the username and password then yes, they could in theory use it to authenticate and access whatever your software accesses. However, this isn't a security risk in itself - no more than having administrative accounts etc. The answer is the same: Make the password complicated, random and release it to only those who genuinely need it. We'd need far more detail on your environment before we could recommend other specific ways to mitigate risk, but I'm not sure it would do your professional relationship any good to approach them with said answers. *The idea is, however, best practice, well documented and understood. But you must understand there is no "Service Account" user type or anything. It's just a descriptive term. 

Essentially you need a router, layer 3 switch or a computer with 3 network interfaces. Or, two, if you can connect that to a managed switch with vlan capabilities*. Beyond that, you either need to separate the two networks physically or use more switches with vlans. *look up the term 'router on a stick' 

You should be running the service as a specific user account, and that user account should have permissions to access the share. Putting a username and password in like that is a pretty awful way of working. Not only for security, but also for portability and management.