These connectors are designed specifically to mate with a 1.6mm PCB - so if the connection feels overly loose or you're having functional issues, then you could always check the PCB thickness... though a PCB of anything other than 1.6mm is out-of-spec - something that may be true for an especially cheap card. 

This includes file names and content in the final hash, but does not include metadata - modification times, permissions, etc... 

This said, the symptoms that you describe indicate that the display connection is faulty. In my experience, this can happen when the cable going through the hinge gets tired - though typically after many years of use. 

A third option is do disable the itable initialization - though in my opinion, this is a bad option, especially for a filesystem that is in production and presumably has important data on it (that's why you're using a RAID, right?) You can do this with the option: 

Note how these terms are all tied to the physical configuration and size of a network. We don't use these terms to describe logical configuration (i.e: "two routers connected with a serial cable") 

You can use putty configurations to achieve this. Load putty and configure your session. Enter the remote command that you'd like to run here: 

In summary, and still in agreement with my original answer, No. There is no definitive way to determine the behaviour of a process by looking at what files it has open. As far as determining the nature of a subprocess, this is impossible - can you look at and determine the full runtime configuration of a system? No. 

The topic of "Real-Time Computing" has no real place when discussing human interaction with systems - we are very lenient and our brain can handle relatively large offsets between our senses - for example audio and video. Real-Time systems provide guarantees - for example if a trigger input occurs, computation will complete and output will occur within n microseconds. This is crucial for correct operation of many systems - often with life or death consequences. The significant additional effort involved in providing such guarantees - in design, implementation and verification - is simply not justifiable to make sure that your game feels immersive - not to mention that such systems are often orders of magnitude simpler as a side effect of assuring the guarantees are met. 

You could of course calculate a checksum for all files as you've mentioned, but this leads to problems when attempting to maintain and verify the checksums. 

Solution: Don't remove the battery. Typically, you don't need to remove modern batteries, and they are fine with being charged and kept charged - batteries will do better being kept topped up than deep cycling them. For example: charging your phone overnight, every night, to 100% is better than "running it down" and only charging it when it's low. Rapid charging and over-discharging will play into degrading the life of your battery. Some laptops provide the ability to only charge to 50% or 70%. This will do more to prolong your battery's life than removing it and putting it on a shelf at 100% charge. 

Given these permissions, you will need to be , or in the group to write to this directory. So your venture down that path was correct. You'll need to restart your session after modifying the user's groups, as these are not dynamic. This question offers some solutions to this problem: Reload a Linux user's group assignments without logging out. Note, however, that these solutions typically involve creating a new temporary session, and in a desktop environment, rebooting may be the best option. 

It isn't... these speeds indicate the theoretical maximum bandwidth available. Don't forget that to/from storage aren't the only places that you send data... if you're using Thunderbolt to drive a display, then a standard 1080p60 display will take approx 2.8Gb/s... a 4k 60Hz display will require about 11.1Gb/s. 

If all of the above is understood and you're still looking for the "missing" space, then you might want to start looking for more generic "Windows free space mismatch" type information. For example: 

Instead, you probably mean, "network cable" - i.e: CAT5 / CAT5e / CAT6, terminated with RJ-45 connectors: 

With modern disks #1 is more common, but with older disks #2 was the way - some old disks even came with a list of bad sectors from the factory, which you had to type in when commissioning. Disks won't typically relocate "bad" sectors on a read error (so you can try again), while a failed write will result in a relocation. To dive even deeper, there are two main failure modes for a given sector: 

A UHS-III or U3 card (as you have) is guaranteed to be able to write at 30MB/s (as your phone sees). The speed class ratings have recently been extended to also include a V* rating... UHS-III being comparable with V30. The specific data written to the card is of little consequence, but the "sequential access" and "large blocks" are important. If you're accessing lots of little files, then the performance will suffer when comparing to a single large file. The discrepancy that you see is most likely due to the desktop's interface to the card, and not the card itself (you've already proven the card with your phone). It could be many things, including an old SD card controller which is unable to keep up with the card, or a congested USB tree. 

You might need to look into some of the following options, depending on the nature of your read errors: 

Note: If produces anything that makes use of technologies aside from HTTP (e.g: HTML that calls on an RTP stream), then you will have issues with this approach. The fact that you've used the URL directly in the CSS would imply to me that this will work fine... (this technique also feels a little hinky) It is easy to confirm if does this - if necessary, you will want to look into a Windows equivalent of to allow for precise / secure port forwarding between the networks, ideally using Masquerading (I cannot help with this - perhaps will suffice?). 

Ethernet is a set of standards (IEEE 802.3) which covers transmitting data via coaxial cable, twisted pairs as well as fibre. 

In this context, "your house" or "their house" is the entity in question. The given entity is also usually closer to the user or operator of the system - "you" or "them", not "the internet". 

Then, we must re-create the partitions, making sure that the Start sectors match the originals exactly (this uses my numbers, not yours). Then write the changes. Here I am using the defaults (just pressing return maked partitions start early, and makes them as big as possible)... You can give values if you'd like to keep some space for other partitions. 

I would guess that you've not specified the shebang properly. When you run a script, this will tell the system how to execute it, try the following examples: Trying to use as the interpreter ( doesn't exist): 

As per PeterH's answer, can be simplified to just , also shown above. Here resolves to , which Excel parses happily. 

I had a bit of a rummage in the sources, but couldn't clearly see why it was adding this ~1MB buffer... As your disk is already setup without it, things should be fine. 

This sounds like a permission issue - probably / hopefully not due to encryption and probably also not due to a virus... If you've used the external drive on another computer, then it's possible that the folders were created / owned by a user on that computer which isn't present (or isn't "you") on this computer. To restore access to everyone, try following these steps: 

DNS and ARP caches are on your computer. Caching DNS servers can also exist all the way up to the root servers. The DHCP "cache" (aka "leases") is a file held on the DHCP server. This is used to ensure that one client will consistently receive one address... rather than a new address each time it asks for one. Without this, you could end up exhausting your address space quickly. There is no client-side DHCP cache. 

When you try to "execute " the linker is actually what reads the library files to collate and 'link' the full process image. By the time starts to execute, this data is already in memory and the files are not 'open' anymore. Some applications may make use of 'plugins', or 'dynamically' load additional files that provide functionality (see ), but this is an edge case and is far from typical behaviour - none of the processes currently running on my machine have a Shared Object () file open. 

It's asking you because it's never connected to this host before. If you are in a secure environment, then you will know the remote host's fingerprint, and will compare it on the first connection - if the fingerprint matches what you know it should be, then great. If you're in a less secure environment, then you can just accept it on first connection. Once you've said "Yes, I trust that host key, and want it to be associated with that hostname/IP", the SSH client will remember this for you... If for whatever reason (reinstall / new host keys / new machine / man in the middle) the key doesn't match on a subsequent connection, you will see a warning like below: