That works for me. It is possible that the answer depends on your specific laptop. Trying it shouldn't hurt. I believe in some cases (but clearly not all) the battery is a necessary intermediary between the external power supply (charger) and the internal supply to the motherboard etc. 

Have you tried setting your locale to To find out what your current locale is, use the command with no arguments. It will print the values of all of the relevant environment variables except for LANGUAGE. prints the name of the current encoding. To find out what locales are available, type . To find out what encodings are available, type . If you use gedit's file-open dialogue you can choose an appropriate encoding for the file you are opening. If the above doesn't help, please update your question with the output of and ten relevant lines of output of 

The above is for WinCE but I expect XP/Vista/7 have similar structure for TZI. This can be verified by decoding some existing registry entries and seeing if the structure matches. A brave person could use Regedit to create new registry entries defining a new time-zone with a suitable TZI "bias" value. They could then set their timezone to the one just created. 

Where the bulk of the CSS (say 95%) is in the first section, which by itself is suitable for phones. This is overridden in later sections to rearrange menus and unhide optional sidebars etc. So if you resize your desktop browser's window to be the same size (in pixels) as your mobile phone screen - you would expect to see the same mobile-optimised website layout. Modern browsers try very hard to do the "right thing" when you zoom in. Even though the window hasn't changed size, they are magnifying the content and they recognize that this is, in some way, equivalent to reducing the window size - So they reinterpret the CSS accordingly. Not all websites work this may, many still try to detect the actual device or browser and make choices based on that - this is an approach that needs continual maintenance as new devices and new browsers are introduced. 

I would save the file in an XML-based format (e.g. xslx) supported by Excel, unzip the file and peruse the contents using an XML editor (you can use notepad in a pinch), search for the strings that you are concerned might be present (e.g. people and organisation names) 

DHCP Reservation Set a reservation in your DHCP server (your router) based on the MAC address (Ethernet address) of the Linux computer's main Ethernet interface. You can find your Linux PC's MAC address by opening a command shell and typing and looking for Since your DSL-router is unbranded and unidentified we cannot tell you how to do this, you might navigate to it's configuration screen and takes some screen shots to post here (edit your answer and add them to the end). Static IP address Alternatively, configure a static IP-address on the Linux computer and ensure the router's configuration excludes that address from it's DHCP pool. This also requires some configuration work on your unidentified router (see above). On Fedora, the easiest way to set a static IP address is to use the network configuration tools. I would open a shell session and use . See $URL$ Using a static address requires that you understand how to configure a default route, and probably the DNS resolver etc. I suggest it will be much easier for you to configure a DHCP reservation in your router (if it supports it). 

Possibly because the target location in the filesystem is protected against writing by the currently logged-in user. Possibly because the image is locked in the camera (using in-camera "lock" features) - normally I wouldn't expect that to prevent reading but it might cause problems if the software is moving rather than copying. 

keyboards "send" numeric scancodes. The operating system has to convert the scancode into an action or a displayable character. For example, Shift+3 is the same scancodes on UK and US keyboards but needs to result in differing characters. 

Not in general. The extra information at the end of the URL is passed to the webserver but if the server side code is not specifically coded to handle it and to add it to the emitted HTML then you won't get the effect you desire. Many browsers can auto-populate fields in forms, but you don't influence that by appending text to the URL. 

If you want help with configuration of specific software (e.g. Comodo) you should make this clear and list 

So you could extend this to run a number of tasks in parallel so long as it is acceptable to view progress in a cluster of small windows. I would try Xdialog. 

The answer uses "illegal" to mean "wrong" - they don't imply that in any particular location the government enforces Internet Protocol requirements as part of criminal law. 

The log should already exist. Try using the command. Login failures are normally logged by syslog to somewhere like You can grep that file for login failures. 

An alternative approach to this problem is the bytecode approach used by Java and (to a lesser extent) by .Net. However this doesn't help with existing native apps. 

Some (probably rather obvious) points Backup changes only You can use something like rsync, unison or robocopy to make backups which only transfer the changes rather than repeating the copy in full every time (I am not familiar with "EaseUs Todo Backup Free" - it may be similar) Keep offsite media It is advisable to keep one or more backups at different locations (i.e. different buildings) in case of fire or theft that could cause the loss of all data at one location. Your clod bbackup covers this but make sure you have the necessary credentials somewhere safe. You also need to make allowance for "cloud" companies going out of business suddenly. Testing Conventional wisdom is that you should regularly test that you are able to restore data from backups. 

Yes, that is commonplace and there are several protocols defined for this purpose. For example Telnet essentially replaced RS232 serial communications. SSH has essentially replaced Telnet. There are many other similar bidirectional character and line oriented protocols and examples of simple two-way direct TCP connections. Many if not most Internet protocols are built on top of simple bidirectional TCP connections that operate somewhat like a RS232 serial connection. The main differences are the lack of separate control-lines for things like flow-control and endpoint status - separate from the main data stream. There also exist (well, used to exist) hardware devices that allow you to connect serial devices to a TCP/IP network. There were often called terminal-servers. 

cwRsync includes both ssh and plink in it's bin subdirectory. WHen I run ssh directly I get the same error. However if I run plink directly it connects OK. 

You need to prevent the Mac getting an IP-address from the wifi router (which probably acts as a DHCP server). I would try 

I believe these shortcuts depend on the libraries used by specific programs such as Word, Excel and Notepad. References to Alt character codes at microsoft.com are always in the context of a specific application or suite. The character resulting from Alt+nnn ought not to depend on any IME but should respect document, application or Windows language settings that determine the default code page currently in use. Microsoft are cavalier in their use of terms like ASCII and ANSI, documentation of Alt+nnn reflects that. Here's a little experiment in the Command Prompt on Vista 

As Ramhound noted, WINRE_DRV is a partition for Windows Recovery Environment. I suspect PBR_DRV is a partition associated with the Lenovo One-Key Recovery software. It may be other vendors also supply something based on the same third-party software. Both of these are probably relatively small partitions that are normally hidden from end-users. You should probably leave them alone unless you have, and know how to use, a full set of DVD/CD media to reinstall your operating system, drivers and vendor-supplied utilities. Neither of these need "optimization" or defragmenting. 

Note the source is 00:08:74:AD:F1:9B and the destination is 00:0b:82:01:fc:42 Since this is all LAN-local, the contents of the address fields in the IP header are irrelevant. It is only the address fields in the Ethernet header that are used in getting the packet to where it needs to go.