Edit: Okay I will try to make this more clear. What I am trying to achieve is simply a port forward, through my OpenVZ hosted openvpn server, to a service running on a client. There are a few different services I'd like to forward, like a web server, or a bittorent client. For the sake of argument, let's say I just want to establish a functional netcat connection with this topology: internet --->[-->server(1.2.3.4:15555)]-nat-/->openvpn-server(10.8.0.1)--\ -> client running a webserver (10.8.0.6:15555) or .... (inet) --->|(public ip)-nat-through-openvpn-server--|->to-client-\ 10.8.0.6(destination) Where inet represents any host on the internet, 1.2.3.4 represents my server's public IP, and 10.8.0.6 represents the ovpn client that will be hosting the server, which I'd like reachable from behind the VPN, at the address/port 1.2.3.4:15555 Here is my ifconfig: 

I'm using Terraform with AWS. Currently in my setup, I have an Auto Scaling Group used in conjunction with Code Deploy. When I deploy into Code Deploy, it copies the initial ASG, and deletes it. The issue is that when I run 'terraform plan/apply', it wants to recreate the original ASG, and repoint my Code Deploy group. Obviously, this breaks things. Is there a way I can tell Terraform to leave my ASG/CodeDeploy stuff alone? I would comment out the modules containing these items, but I'm scared Terraform will look at the current state, see that some components are missing, and try to delete them. Any help is greatly appreciated. 

I'm on a Windows Server 2012 R2 Standard server and I have a CSR that I've created and I've got the GoDaddy issued cert. But when I go to "Certificate Enrollment Requests" I don't see anything except for this key. 

(OUTIP means outgoing IP address, or venet0:1's address. VPN traffic is routed through venet0:0 to venet0:1) Next I set up a netcat listener: nc -l 0.0.0.0 -p 15555 And used this site to test the connection, which finally showed some progress: 

Now at least I know that the traffic is being forwarded, which is a start. So I thought maybe I need to add a postrouting rule so that the traffic knows where to be sent back to 

That also works, although I would prefer to not have the destination port (9001) open to the world, but I could not get it to work otherwise. What I cannot get to work at all is forwarding traffic destined to the server's public IP ($EXT_IP in the example above) on a certain port to one of the VPN clients. I have tried doing this a few different ways. (I am also wondering if the point-to-point topology is complicating this?) I tried using rules such as described in another thread: 

I'm using an AWS RDS MySql (5.7.19) installation and I need to do some date conversions. Most docs say that you need to have the timezone tables populated, to do anything. $URL$ Is there a way to set the timezone tables in this current setup? I can do things like 

TL;DR How do I make a Workmail account a "root" account with a Workmail Directory as my Directory Type. Hello Everyone, I'm using AWS Workmail with my Directory Type set to WorkMail Directory. I would like to have an account or two that can see all the contents of all the inboxes. However, I don't see where to set these privileges. I've considered that switching to a SimpleAD directory type might offer the granularity and functionality I need, but I'd rather ask first before running off and spending money. Any help is greatly appreciated. 

I got the same result. I am so frusterated by how many hours I've spent trying to forward one dang port to a client. I would seriously appreciate some help! 

The reason why mac authentication does not work very well (in my experience), is because if I were the attacker, I would first send a deauthentication packet to the client whos mac I wanted to spoof, and I'd use a different spoofed mac to do so. Than the router can't tell the difference. However, as long as you are using WPA or WPA2, and have a strong passphrase, it'd be extreemely difficult for an attacker to crack your key, preventing a dchp lease from ever happening. A radius server does work with mobile devices and is the best way to secure a wifi network, when used with wpa2. It provides a dual authentication method with a certificate, I believe. 

I have two servers, called NGinxServer and AppServer. NGinxServer is the accessible entry point for all calls to AppServer. For security reasons, I modified the Security Group for AppServer to not allow any connections except those coming from the NGinxServer Security Group (NGinxServer-SG). However, when I do that, that I can't complete any proxied requests from Web Browser -> NGinxServer -> AppServer. What could I be doing wrong? I thought NGinx proxied the entire duration of the connection, but I can only think that either NGinx is either passing off the connection which is getting blocked by the Security Group rules, or that AWS is seeing the proxied traffic which still has data that shows it as originating from Web Browser ,and not NGinx and blocks it accordingly. Any help is greatly appreciated. EDIT SOLUTION: The comment/answer provided by Michael - sqlbot is the correct solution. I was using the public IP instead of the private IP. 

So I'd like for hosts on the internet to be able to reach a netcat listener (or webserver) at the server's public IP address, NAT'd through the openvpn server, to an openvpn client. I asked this question last night and deleted it because I thought I had figured out the answer, but it turns out I had not.. If this appears to be a duplicate question than I apologize. I have searched and have attempted to follow recommendations found in other threads on this topic.The situtation is that I have an Ubuntu Minimal vps. It is an OpenVZ container. It is primarily being used as a openvpn server. The network topology is p2p. I am trying to forward a port to a client (say 10.8.0.6, p2p 10.8.0.5) through the server's public IP (example 1.2.3.4) so that a certain service (let's say apache) is reachable from the VPN address 1.2.3.4. I know that because the server is an OpenVZ container, certain iptables workarounds need to be used, like for openvpn: