There doesn't appear to be a method for selecting a particular font weight in the new message default font dialogue box. For example: I can select Calibri, but not specifically Calibri Light. 

I fixed it by unchecking this box for all visible columns. Note: I tried to select all the columns at once and unchecking the box, but this didn't take. That may just be a bug in Project. 

I don't have an answer as to why the other folder didn't import properly, but I found a work around. In a Windows-based version of Outlook I opened the PST file and exported everything at the top level but not in the folder into a separate PST file. I then separately imported this separate file into Outlook for Mac. 

Is there a way to select a specific weight of a given font family to use for new messages, either in the GUI or by directly modifying a preferences file somewhere? 

However, once I've started a new message, I can use the drop-down font selection box and select , which brings up a totally different dialog that enables me to select from the list box. 

I am attempting to import a large (5 GB) .pst file created in Outlook 2007 for Windows into Outlook 2011 for Mac. When I view the file in Outlook 2007 I have a large number of messages at the top level (e.g. at the "personal folders" level in the picture below) as well as a single subfolder into which I've manually sorted messages I've sent. 

Real-time follow-up From Windows, I created another folder and dragged all the content from the top-level into that subfolder and re-imported. Same result: only a single folder and none of the top-level messages. 

I have an Outlook meeting invite with over 40 people on it, but in the field of the appointment tab and on the tab people show up in the order they were added, not alphabetically. This makes it difficult to scan the list to see if a given person is already on it. Is there a way to alphabetize the list of people who have been invited to a given meeting? 

The whole area in the orange box is totally useless and I can't figure out how to get rid of it. It's wasting a tremendous amount of vertical space. I can collapse the ribbon, but this wasted space just slides up. 

In the PowerPoint slider sorter view, is there a way to set the zoom level larger than 100%? On PowerPoint for Mac this slider goes to much higher values, essentially allowing zoom all the way in to a single slide, but on the Windows version (depending on screen resolution and slide dimensions) the maximum zoom is often several slides wide. Evidently it's possible to achieve a similar affect by changing the page size, but is there some sort of preferences hack that will change the maximum value of this slider? 

Installing the MyTALK software allows up to two bluetooth sources to pair with a Jambox simultaneously. Once installed, Jambox settings can be modified from a computer via USB. Under the menu previously paired bluetooth devices can be deleted but a pairing precedence cannot be set. The device will pair with the most recently paired devices. 

I've followed the import instructions. After importing I can see the Sent folder, which seems to contain all the messages it should, but at the top-level is empty and none of the other messages are in there. 

It's happening because one of the columns in my Gantt chart has a long title and I'd squeezed the column width to be very small. (See the title and width of box in screenshot below). The dialogue for that column had box checked, which was causing the header height to grow, even though the text wasn't visible regardless of height. 

Using Tortoise Hg you can right-click on a file and view its revision history, which only shows those changesets in the repository that changed that specific file. Is there a way to accomplish the same thing in MacHg? If I view the full revision history I see all the changesets and the search tool filters the list down on commit messages and other meta data, but I can't find a method to filter the list to only those changes impacting a given file. 

Well, after all this time, it turns out I solved the issue. Whatever the issue was, the PSU was not the fault. To begin, the cable changes were strange, and my PSU almost had some sort of ghostly "memory", where it wouldn't let the computer turn on if I swapped between two cords. I had to use three or more, in a set order. If I went back and forth in the ordering of my cable swaps, it wouldn't work. Then it stopped working completely, so I opened it up and looked online. Turns out the only issue was that I had to replace the tiny button battery in the motherboard, as the shop I bought it off obviously had it sitting there long enough to kill the thing. The power cable issues must have just been zapping the battery giving it a tiny bit of life. As to why I needed specific ordering, maybe the house is haunted. :/ Problem solved. 

So I've had my computer for almost a year now, and it has worked flawlessly sans a few problems with my Motherboard battery, but that was an easy fix by simply replacing it. Just recently, in fact two days ago, my computer has started to do abnormal things. It started when playing intensive games such as Elite Dangerous trying to render a few million/billion stars in a map screen, and quickly flipping back to the main game, or playing an unoptimised game that upon inspection, uses 100% of my GPU and 60-90% CPU at all times. I would be playing, and then suddenly, the computer would black screen completely, (screen not lit-up, the actual HDMI input is recieving nothing, so the screen is off), then after a second or two my headset would die, and my input obviously doesn't function either. I've opened the computer up about 6 times now, and taken everything out and put back in each time. My CPU has not a single bent pin, my GPU I know is fine, I don't know about the RAM (did a memory test but didn't know how to get the logs). Now, it either posts and does the above, even when not in-game, or simply doesnt post at all. It just hangs, the BIOS screen doesn't even show to say its starting, the HDMI doesn't actually receive any input to begin with! This has lead me and my close friends all to think its the PSU that is at fault. My computers specs are below, but upon recent inspection of the PSU specifications, it looks like it's severely under-amped on the 12V rail, and I think now I have made a mistake in buying it, only being 500W. Because of this, I have just yesterday purchased a Corsair VS650 which I'm going to install and see what happens when it arrives. As for now, I want a professional opinion, as to what the problem may be, and how I can diagnose it. I actually looked in the "Event Viewer" and see that in the past 24 hours I've had 8 or so "CRITICAL" errors, which are (every single one of them) a 'Kernal Power' error. Another reason why I think its the PSU. Any ideas? Edit: There was a strange thing yesterday, that when I turned it on at one point it seemed to work, yet when I plugged in my Wireless Internet USB, it crashed immediately. Also going to add, I've stuck a screwdriver on the JBAT1 pins on the Motherboard, which my manual says to do to reset the CMOS, and upon turning the computer on, the BIOS displayed, it worked for a while, however upon entering a game again, it broke once more. Computer specs: 

This has absolutely been doing my head in and I don't know why it happens. There's something wrong with my wireless connection between my desktop and my router. Everytime I try to connect, I get "Identifying" for a lengthy period of time, and then "Unidentified network". No packets are received from the router, but my computer still sends them off. I have reset my router to factory, it started working again perfectly. Just today, I hibernated my computer, and its broken again. Permanently. My computer had the network card set to "turn off to save power", I changed that to not turn it off, same issue. I have disabled, reset, reinstalled my network drivers, still to no avail. If it helps, my network card shows as "Qualcomm Atheros AR9287 Wireless Network Adapter". I have reset the WiFi adapter, disabled Avast, disabled firewall, nothing happens. I have reset winsock, the TCP/IP stack, restarted my computer, changed my DHCP settings on and off, static IP address, static IP allocation on the router, still doesn't work. My ipconfig shows that yes, my DHCP is enabled, I have my Node Type set to Hybrid, but the Default Gateway is blank, and I have a "Preferred" autoconfigured IPv4 address. Funny thing is, my Telstra router says that the computer is connected, but still isn't having any communication. Also, this only happens on my home network. Use my hotspot? Works fine. Use my Raspberry Pi as a router and have it bridge to the same router I can't connect to, works fine. This is not the normal type of question I would ask, but I have absolutely no idea what to do. Anyone know what to do from here? 

One advantage of using the following approach instead of a table is that the images can overlap. Click one image, and then hold down the Shift key while you click the other. Then, on the Picture Tools > Format tab, in the Arrange group, click Align > Align Middle. I believe that the Shift-click approach to multi-selection works only if the Position setting of both images is something other than In Line with Text. At any rate, you may sometimes find that you just can't select both images as described above. In that case, check the Position settings. Alternatively, insert a drawing canvas on the page (on the Insert tab, in the Illustrations group, click Shapes > New Drawing Canvas) and then insert your images onto the canvas. You should then be able to select both images and click Align > Align Middle. (Here, inserting a drawing canvas amounts to the more or less the same thing as changing the Position settings, because the objects on a drawing canvas aren't positioned in line with text.) 

The files are inserted as Word fields. If you make changes in the individual files, you can update the collection document by updating field codes (Ctrl+A to select all, and then F9 to update). 

If document A contains fields, such as date fields, that shouldn't be updated when the content is inserted into document B, unless you explicitly update them in document A, you can add a switch to the field code that is inserted by any of three methods. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for every redundant step or group of steps. 

First, manually make the change from to inside just one of the fields, and then select the whole field code (including braces), and press Ctrl+C to copy it. Then, in the Find and Replace dialog box, in the Find what field, type as you did before. Then move the cursor into the Replace with field, and either select Special > Clipboard Contents or just type . 

Finally, I created these 8 style rules. I just put them directly in my HTML document (in a element inside the element); but, as I said earlier, you can also create a separate, reusable .css file. 

When you make changes in A or B, if you used the Master Document approach above, the changes will be updated automatically in C the next time that you open it (though to see this, you'll first have to switch to Outline view and click Expand Documents; otherwise, you'll just see a bunch of hyperlinks). If you used the Text as File approach, you have to manually update field codes in C before those changes show up (press Ctrl+A to select all, and then press F9). Update: Text from File inserts an field. If your document A and/or B contains fields such as date fields that shouldn't be updated when the content is inserted into C, unless you explicitly update them in A/B, there's a switch that you can add. This is explained on the Office Support page about the field code. 

On the References tab, in the Table of Contents group, click Table of Contents > Custom Table of Contents. In the Table of Contents dialog box, if you don't want page numbers to appear in your TOC, clear the Show page numbers check box. Click Options. Scroll down the Available styles list until you reach the heading styles (Heading 1, Heading 2, and so on). Clear out any numbers in the TOC level field for these and other styles. Enter an appropriate number in the TOC level field for each paragraph style that you're using for your lists (for example, enter 1 in the field for the List Number style, 2 in the field for List Number 2, and 3 in the field for List Number 3). Click OK twice to insert the TOC. If the indents and spacing of the paragraphs in the TOC aren't what you want, adjust the appropriate paragraph styles that are used for the TOC (by default, TOC 1, TOC 2, and so on).