Yes, you will get a reading performance boost + the redundancy. You can easily imagine that as you can read the parts of the files at the same from two different HDDs as the files are on both of the HDDs. So theoretically, if the RAID controller does its job right, you could gain a speedup of O(n). 

You do indeed have PC3-10600. CPU-Z shows only the half of it because DDR RAM like the names says - Double Data Rate - can transfer twice as much data on one I/O bus clock, than the actual IO frequency which CPUZ shows. If you want to dig deeper in this topic check this link, it describes it really well. 

Yes, you can legally run an Android App. You have to install the Android SDK, which can be downloaded here. Having installed it, you can create a virtual android phone on which you can install anything you want. 

No, that is wrong. Games are CPU and GPU dependent. That has to with a lot of factors, like resolution and such. Both can be the bottleneck to your system. However, your old Pentium 4 - whichever it is - won't be able to power any of the newer games. In addition to that you may still be running an old AGP system on which you couldn't use all the newer PCI-E 2.0 Cards. 

1) To answer your first question about how you can be sure that your motherboard supports a special RAM module, you have 3 choices: 

2) Concerning the second question, the answer is very trivial,too. You won't notice the difference between different RAM speeds and timings. You can check this link, it's german but you will understand it. That's why I would recommend you buying some 1333Mhz CL 9 Kingston RAM, as Kingston is very reliable and has a big compatibility range, too. Speaking about timings and Mhz in general, lower timings and higher frequencies are always better and faster, however covering your comment on some other answer about the real timings, you will always need a higher supply voltage to run your RAM at those speeds, which again results in more heat and higher powerconsumption. If you want to have a deeper understanding of the internals, I would recommend you to read this wikipedia article, it is very datailed. 

F@H is closely related to the Stanford university and WCG hosts projects, which most come from universities, too. They both also have quite a good contact to their users for feedback and wanted changes to their software. 

download this Tool GPU-Z and run it. It will read all the data of your GPU and show you your memory. 

Yes, of course it does support the integrated GPU. You should probably see the VGA/DVI/HDMI connectors on the motherboard you gonna buy. 

This is a very BIOS specific question, which can not be answered in general as there are hundreds of different BIOSs/Mainboards. You have to check you BIOS manual for said support. You can also check if you mainboard supports remote management. One thing you could also consider is, to manage the morning reboot from OS side. 

You are probably running windows 7 32 bit version, which can't address more than ~3.3 GB at a time. Upgrading to win7 64bit would solve this problem. Another possibility is that your GPU reserves memory or your BIOS doesn't detect your additional stick, you can check that in your BIOS. 

Go to control panel -> administrative tools -> computer management -> storage -> disk management: You should see all your partitions there, including the "lost" unallocated space. Click on your systemdrive (probably C:) and there on extend volume. You will see a wizard which will guide you thru the process to add your lost space to your current partition(the C: partition). 

Your PSU definitely has such connectors, they look like this (from wikipedia): You just have to put your fans on adapters like these are (probably come with your fans) and from there to your PSU. 

This site explains, how to set your precision from rounding. short version: to mark all cells, right click on a cell -> choose format cells -> select your precesion 

Well, if you use only 16GB RAM - which is not a server RAM range - you will be fine with pretty standard any desktop RAM/sys. If it is only a storage server, you won't even need that much CPU performance. Like you said, go with Sandy bridge, it will give you a cool, performant and reliable system. Speaking of 16GB RAM ranges, you don't have to worry about ECC stuff. 

Of course that could be the case, you won't get the same waves in every place in your room. That depends on a lot of factors, reflections on the walls, things in between the wifi accesspoint and your pc... So yes, that is not only a mind game in your head. 

You shouldn't rely on anything for "safely" 2-3 years, make regular backups and you are safe for eternity. Go and buy a SSD to enjoy a totally new user experience. Check also this out concerning SSD reliability. 

You can create a ripped version of win7 very easily with the tool called RT Se7en Lite it allows you to remove a lot features from windows, which you might not need, after that you can reinstall it. Anyway you have to look and tune a bit to get the maximum out of it. 

Getting virtualization and gaming into one thing is not that easy. For Virtualization, you need a lot of CPU cores (if your workload is very CPU dependent) and a lot of RAM, in contrast to gaming where you need less cores, which on the other side need to be faster and you also don't need as much RAM as virtualization. Concerning the RAM speed, the answer is that it doesn't matter, see this link. To make a conclusion, if you do let's say max 2 virtual machines at a time, you better go with the fast CPU and ~8GB of RAM. However, as your dual core opterons are probably very old, any new CPU will be faster, so the best thing would be to just buy a CPU (sandybridge quadcore) and 16GB DDR3 RAM as RAM is really really cheap these days. With that machine you can play games(don't forget a good GPU) and do virtualization. If you don't want to replace your current PC then keep the C2Q and buy another 16GB of RAM (4 DDR3 RAM modules). 

Asus changed the way of measuring the CPU temp. Before the update it was measuring the tj.max temps, which are from the CPU core, then they changed it to the tcase temps which are the temps in the environment of the CPU. The difference of these both temps are ~ 15°C. (German Source) 

It is probably not a driver problem. The problem is that you have a lot RAM. All the RAM must be written to your SSD before hibernation and again being loaded when you resume from hibernation. If you just restart your PC, only the minimal Windows configuration is going to be reloaded. I recommend to just use the sleep option. 

Can HDD platters theoretically be interchanged that one could recover data from a HDD in which something else might be damaged? I am interested if it is technically possible, whichever effort is needed for that. This might also be of interest for forensic research. 

Due to the lacking TRIM support for RAID, there might be a performance degrade over time. However, Intel announced that they will support it with the upcoming versions of their drivers as of version 11.5. (Only for RAID 0, though) Nevertheless, with two Vertex3s in RAID 0, you probably won't even notice a performance degradation. So take the step and enjoy the transfer rate madness. 

Did you download the SMP High Performance client? You are probably running the old uni-client which is only singlethreaded. You should use version 6.34 or even the version 7 beta client. See this guide for a proper installation and use of the version 7 client. Start at "QuickStart" there is also the download link. 

I would recommend going 32bit as I assume you are not going to dedicate more than 4GB RAM to your virtual machine, and in addition to that you won't use/need the (small) performance boost some applications gain when run in 64bit. (Note, that those are mostly scientific apps, not any daily things like browsing, email and stuff.) When run in 32bit, you even save some memory. 

No, they don't do that, though Windows runs defrag by default from time to time automatically. Your HDD activity can come from various sources, OS indexing your files for search on the new HDD, anti-virus software doing some random scanning etc... 

If you don't game, it was a waste of money. Concerning your experience index you may not have installed drivers yet. 

Go to(as admin): Control Panel -> Device Manager: Choose the Battery tab and deactivate/uninstall all the battary options, but "Microsoft AC Adapter" and "Microsoft Composite Battery". 

Don't give too much about SSD fail propaganda. They can fail as much as HDDs can. One of the best and reliable SSDs are produced by: (Ordered alphabetically) 

In windows, did you go to control panel -> administrative tools -> computer management -> storage -> disk management, and check if it is available there? One thing you could also try, if you have something like a photocamera which takes CF cards and try to format it with that one. 

That is due to different archtictures, it would be the same with windows, if they did something similiar. Actually, the POWER archticture of IBM is still out there and powering quite a lot of servers, which again need different compiled OSs than ones for x86(-64) Intel Architecture. 

I would recommend you to install a codec pack. This is quite a good one. You can also choose from which codecs to pick. 

No, using only Intel hardware will not give you a performance boost and not any additional memory sharing capabilities. Forget it, it is just marketing. This is also valid for any other products, for example an ASUS GPU doesn't work better with an ASUS motherboard than with an EVGA one. I would prefer ASUS in anyway as the reselling value of a ASUS board is higher than of an Intel board, as nobody wants to have an Intel board. 

You are confusing something, having a UEFI BIOS does not necessarily mean that you have a graphical BIOS interface. You will probably only get that on fancy desktop boards. For more information on what UEFI really is, check this out. 

Bandwidth just means how much data your device can transfer per time. You don't have to define three different bandwidths, that just means that every connection in your system has a bandwidth and every of these lines can be a bottleneck to something. For example: 242 MB/s means that it can transfer 242 MB per second. Now, if you have an applicaiton which needs to a lot of memory operations on loads of RAM, you are being bottlenecked by your memory bandwidth, even though your CPU could probably calculate the work faster. 

Network utility shows you your IP address of your special machine in your home netwrok, probably something like 192.168.x.x in gmail you see your global IP address which your ISP assigned to you. 

Higher use leads to a higher wear down. Plain and simple, however you might just have had bad luck with that HDD, they can fail pretty much at random, that's the reason why you always need a backup. 

There is a unsafe way to do this: Go control-panel -> internet options -> security -> custiom level... -> "Launching applications and unsafe files" set that one to enable. In firefox you can manually turn it off by changing the "browser.download.manager.scanWhenDone" value in your about:config from true to false.