I have an ices0 streaming software. But whenever I run it it is reading from SDCARD the music, The green light on the Pi is CONSTANTLY ON. But the CPU usage is still very low... Will this decrease my SDCARD's Life? 

There is a fork, called PiFmRds. This works on Raspberry Pi 2 and also lets you set the station name, radio text and much more. I've tested it and can pickup a good 500 metres in the car! $URL$ 

I am using loopback devices so that I can play music from VLC and stream it directly to my Ices2 source which will then feed it to my IceCast Server. Problem is I want to be able to play multiple stuff at once. But if I open two instances of VLC then play some music I get "failed to open: resource or device is busy" So obviously I cant do this but that's really annoying because I could do that without Loopback (couldnt i?) But i have modified my .asoundrc to use Loopback devices by default ( I couldnt get the 'default' or 'hw:0,0' devices working with Ices2. So basically I want all the system audio to be streamed. (but I cant because any app trying to play audio fails if there's already another app playing sound) Thank you 

The real problem: It was a software issue. The PiFmRds Modulator uses DMA Engine 0 - which worked fine on my Pi2 but on the Raspberry Pi 3 It is used for framebuffering, which explains the freezing. Simply setting the software to use DMA engine 5 may work, but I was having problems with the transmission cutting out after ~10 seconds. I am now using DMA Engine 6 (which is supposedly used by GPU) But I haven'tavnt noticed anything and it works fine! Bassically apply this commit: $URL$ 

Has it updated and installed MariaDB? Because I was just using MYSQL i thought. Can anyone help me fix this, my website is down and lots of people are trying to use it, I need to get it up for tonight. Error log for mysql: 

I restarted my raspberry pi and now then I got this error on my website: SQLSTATE[HY000] [2002] No such file or directory I look at sudo service mysql status and I can see this. 

Hello I am trying to setup icecast streaming server. Previously I used Loopback devices and it worked fine. But Loopback devices does not have a mixer so I cant play two things at once is you see what I mean. I know the default audio device can do this. So I change the audio device in icecast-alsa.xml from "hw:Loopback,1,0" to "hw:0,0" I also tried "hw:0,1" "default" But none of these work Im getting the error: Could not open device Directory or file does not exist. It would be great if someone could help me. 

I have a basic understanding of the GPIO on the RPi. I want to adapt some of my previous software which interfaced my project board via the Parallel port via direct output to the PP address (0x378) using Outb in C. Can I directly access the GPIO using Outb in C (ofc with a different port address). 

All USB keyboards are 5V. No matter how big or how small, they always use 5V power as supplied by the USB port. However, different devices draw different amounts of current. A typical USB port provides 500mA of current, and the Raspberry Pi (model B) draws between 300mA and 700mA (depending on processor load). Try to keep the current used by USB devices to be less than 500mA to be on the safe side. Most keyboards are well below this 500mA level, so shouldn't be an issue. If you need to use more powerful devices, consider getting a powered USB hub, so that additional current draw can be performed by an additional (external) power source. 

I understand the fun behind wanting to do this yourself as a fun little project, but if you're just looking after a solution to your request I would recommend you use software on your computers themselves. I use TimeSink for Mac, but I'm sure there are alternatives for other operating systems. 

What do you expect us to say? There's no objective answer that can be given. A Raspberry Pi can make a great media center, and can code in python, C(++), among other. No _ _ _ _ there are alternatives, but wether you should buy a RPi is up to you. 

Current: The model A and B require 300 mA and 700 mA (respectively) maximum for the board on it's own. Voltage: The board requires USB power, which is 5v ± 5% - 4.75-5.25 V. 

Often times this sort of behaviour is a result of two common problems: an invalid SD card, or incapable power supply. What is the peak current rating on the power supply you're using with your Pi? The general rule of thumb is to use a power supply that can handle at least 1A of current. 

Flying drones require a substantial amount of energy for lift. The problem is, the bigger the battery, the more they have to lift, the greater the drain. That's why things like the AR drone use LI-Ion batteries specifically designed to have high output, but low duration. 10-15 minutes is pretty much what you would get out of an RC specific battery, so don't get too excited thinking the RPi would use little power and therefore be a good flight controller. 

The voltage drop is a result of the current draw of the RPi. It's the reason why Adafruit offers a 5.25v power supply for the RPi, so that the voltage drop will make it become a true 5v. 

Currently I am using the DHT22/AM2302 which has a built in 5.1k resistor, using the program provided from $URL$ and connected the sensors VCC to 3.3V(Pin1), GND to GND(Pin6), and DOUT to GPIO4(Pin7). Everything seems to be hooked up right but when running the program no sensor is detected. Has anyone had a similar situation? 

Well I can't say I don't learn anything, and this experience, even though it was very frustrating especially since I am very new to Windows 10 iot, was eye opening. My issue has been resolved. If you have a DHT22/AM2302 and you are experiencing issue with getting no feedback from your temperature sensor then check with these troubleshooting tips. Do you have a hardware issue? Check both the sensor and raspberry pi for damage or defects. Do a test run of the sensor on a different OS such as Linux. Is your circuit correctly connected to the raspberry pi? Make sure all pins are connected to their correct corresponding GPIO pins and a resistor was added(other have stated a resistor is not necessary but if you're having issues it wont hurt to try) I had used 5.1K resistor. Is your windows 10 iot up to date? Is your OS up-to-date? This is a big one mainly because it was why my sensor wasn't working with the GPIOOneWire program. This is a quote from jordanrh1 who is one of the developers of the GPIOOneWire program"The DHT11 sample only works on build 10556 and higher." I was using Version 10.0.10240 thinking since I had just reinstalled windows 10 iot it was up to date. So always check your iot versions as a troubleshooting tip** 

my issues is that when I boot my pi the time is always off. Now I have already set the time to my location I am in Eastern standard time(US), I have also tried to manually set the time using Powershell(PS) with remote access. Does daylight savings time play a role? Regardless if it is or not the clock is still not off by a complete hour and is something along the lines of being off by two hours and fifteen minutes. 

Background: My project is to have several raspberry pis measuring and record temperature and humidity throughout our factory. DHT22 AM2302 sensor seemed like the best option at the time, do to its ability to measure both humidity and temperature at the same time. Also its affordable cost seemed to good to be true. Problem: The current issue I am having is with the accuracy of the DHT22 AM2302 readings on humidity. I'm using the AdafruitDHT driver with a python script. We have several other handheld temperature and humidity sensors we use to manually check our factories conditions. The humidity seems to be 10+ degrees off. Which when calculating heat-index greatly effects the the HI value. Questions: Has anyone else had this issue? Can you re-calibrate the sensor if though it is pre-calibrated during production? Should I not waste my time and invest in a more reliable industrial grade humidity sensor? Any help would be wonderful.