What you're referring to is actually a sub-interface. A sub-interface is an interface where the name & number of the interface is dependent on another interface. So, would be a sub-interface because its number is dependent on , which is a physical interface. Another example of a sub-interface would be because it's dependent on , which is a physical interface. A virtual interface is one that is purely in software. Examples of virtual interfaces would be loopbacks, tunnels, SVIs, and BVIs. Some virtual interfaces will go down for various reasons, and others won't. 

It looks to me like a PoE injector. The top port looks like the network port (the switch) and the left port looks like it's for the device, maybe like an outdoor wireless AP that requires more-than-standard power. Injectors sometimes have that warning telling you not to connect the PoE-side into a PC or a switch. 

First, there is no dynamic ACL going on here, and stateful inspection is not a factor, either. (But, read the last paragraph for an explanation of how FTP is special.) The firewall will perform stateful inspection regardless of the commands you have configured. Thus, return traffic will always make it back through the firewall because of this stateful behavior, which you can see in the connection table by doing a . The purpose of an statement is to invoke higher-OSI-layer examination. An example would be that the ESMTP inspection will drop connections where the SMTP client attempts to negotiate TLS. As you can see, that would be layer-7 examination to see that some payload did or did not contain something. That's what statements do. In contrast to the statement, stateful inspection is only letting return traffic of already-permitted flows to come back through the firewall on the exact same ports on which they were initiated. That's layer 4 only. Now, getting to the misconfig like the one you posted, my memory is a bit foggy from way-back when I read the documentation on this type of thing. If I remember correctly, the ASA will only process one statement for any given flow of traffic. So, since the occurs first in the , the traffic will be inspected by the FTP inspection and not the HTTP inspection. Now, because of the way FTP was designed (multiple TCP streams, dynamic ports), the ASA's FTP inspection has an extra special behavior. It will dig into the payload of the packets on TCP port 21 to look for operations that will open the FTP data channel (which will use TCP port 20). When these operations occur, the FTP payload will contain the TCP destination port number (some random number above 1024) that shall be used, and the ASA will quickly respond by adding a temporary ACL for the SYN packet of the data channel to pass through the firewall. Once the SYN gets through the firewall, stateful inspection kicks in and grants the return traffic to be permitted automatically. To reiterate, letting the SYN packet through is the function of the statement, where letting the return traffic through is a function of stateful inspection. One final comment: you can actually permit FTP through your ASA firewall without using the statement (despite this port 20 behavior) by simply building an ACL that allows traffic between the client and the server on port 21, and between the client and server in both direction on TCP port 20. You would effectively be accomplishing what the statement is intended to do. But that would be horrendously frowned upon by security folks. In contrast to that, you can not run your firewall without stateful inspection because (1) there is no way to turn it off that I know of, and (2) you would be removing all the security from inside your firewall. 

I've upgraded my ASA 5512-X from ASA 9.6(2) to ASA 9.8.1. After the upgrade Openconnect fails with following Error 

If I connect to port 1/3 with the IP of 10.0.110.11 on the Client and the Gateway 10.0.110.1 I can't even ping the gateway. I'm not very familiar with Alcatel CLI, using Cisco most of the time but we got the switch for free so ... 

I want to access my 2960-X on my "server-network". I have configured a network 10.0.0.0/24 (VLAN60) on the Router, which is connected to the switch over a trunkport. Also VLAN 40, 80, 90 is configured on this trunk. VLAN1 (default VLAN on the switch) is 192.168.1.1. My play is that the switch will get the IP address 10.0.0.200. So I reach the switch without changing the IP of my server. I also want to reach him on every interface in the whole network. Is the solution that I have to make every Port a trunk Port, which carries VLAN1 and the VLAN(60 or 40 or 80 or 90) ? Which would be definitly not my plan. Same scenario as the Router, which is reachable through the Gateways configured for the networks. Do I have to connect the Management Port (left side) to one of the Ports on those network? 

it sounds a bit strange, but how can i find out the IP Address which i can connect to? The Switch works fine, but i need to do some changes. I have console access to it, but i want it, because it's more comfortable, to do over SSH. rsa & dsa keys are generated und ip ssh server enabled. Now I only need to know which IP address the Switch has. It is our only DELL Switch in the company. The others are Cisco. 

I have found many articles, possible solutions to this topic, but no one seems to have the same problem as me. I am working on a Cisco 1812 Router with IOS 12.4. I have found some things like hairpinning and DNS doctoring but those methods doesn't sound the right one, because every solution targets on the problem that you can't access it over its domainname. We have 2 extern ip addresses x.x.x.100 and x.x.x.101 which get nated to the inside addresses i.i.i.100 and i.i.i.101. so x.x.x.100 -> i.i.i.100 and x.x.x.101 -> i.i.i.101 My Configuration: 

DISCLAIMER: This is a really bad idea. The ASA platform is designed to be one system, with hardware redundancy. Therefore, you should ensure that the config always stays in sync, which ensures that the state tables always stay in sync, which ensures that everything works the way it is intended to. But for the sake of education, you could do something foolish. This would likely not be supported by TAC. Technically, you can modify the config on the standby unit, then do a failover to it. When a failover occurs, the newly-active unit does not bulk sync its config or its state to the formerly-active unit. (Meaning, it does not suddenly bring the formerly-active unit up to date.) It does, however, sync updates if you modify something while running on the newly-active unit. The changes you made while standby are not synced, but the changes you make while primary are synced. Moving on, if you like the result of the failover, then you can do a and on the formerly-active unit (or do a on the newly-active), which will then trigger a bulk sync and bring its config completely up to date. Alternatively, if you were not happy with the result of the failover, then you could fail back to the formerly-active unit, where the previous config was still running. Then, of course, you should do a and on the unit that you messed up to bring its config back into line with the way it used to be. Having said all this, I'm betting there are good many situations where you could cause some bad things to happen. Modifying interfaces, I bet is one scenario--if the two have different interfaces and are sending state updates to one another, something could cause some corruption, or a crash. So, this is meant to teach you how failover works, not to teach you how to rig something up with bubble gum and duct tape. You should always make changes on the active unit. If you aren't comfortable because you can't fail back, then find someone who can help you create a backout plan, or find someone who has the skill to get you successfully through the changes you need to make. 

When you attempt to connect to the ASA using Clientless VPN, the ASA will test your credentials against whatever is configured in the 'DefaultWEBVPNGroup' tunnel-group. Therefore, you need to add config similar to: 

I didn't change any configuration. It also worked before. Anybody knows, what could lead to this error? 

In Interface FE2 are the Webserver which get natted. FE0 is my outgoing Interface to my Provider. And FE1 is my Internal Network where every client connects to. I have no problem to reach to Webserver in the DMZ from the Inside Interface with his i.i.i.100 - IP. But i can't access him with his external IP x.x.x.100. You can reach him when you are on the Outside of my network (like you try to connect with your phone). Funny thing is, i can ping his External IP but if i want to navigate in Firefox to this IP the connection will get refused. There isn't a problem with the DNS, because I want to reach him with his IP. If i navigate to his internal IP, no Problem. I need to fix this, because if you connect to an VPN you can't access it anymore, because the DNS from the VPN will connect you to the external IP. This was the first time a recognized this behavoir. BIG EDIT: I didn't configure this router, it was someone else which isn't reachable anymore. So I have to figure everything out which is done on this one. 

It was a broken ASA, I sent it back to the Factory and they got it repaired. The Putty Setting from JFL are working now, if anybody needs them. 

I have an ASA 5512-X and have the Problem, that when I'm starting an SSH session and leave it running, it cancels the conenction after 60 Minutes. I have two Policy Rules 

I have 3 Aironet Access Points. 2 are running on Version 15.3(3)JBB1 and when I factory resetted and its actually running on Version 15.2(4)JB3a. I wanted to copy the Configuration of on of the AP to the resetted one. But they are not on the same software and I think, this is the reason why i don't work right. We don't have an active contract (I asked) with Cisco. Is it possible to get the Image from one AP to another? And which file is it? Here's the output of the flash: 

If your servers don't need Internet and you will only connect from server to server a switch should be fine, if all your server are in the same subnet eg 192.168.1.0/24.