I had to restore a TFS 2010 virtual machine and am having trouble getting WSS running. When I try to go to the Sharepoint Admin portal localhost:17012 it fails. In the event viewer I see a bunch of 

I was able to successfully boot my vhd in Hyper-V Server using the sequence of commands found at $URL$ 

For example, the results resemble the following. 9.00.1399.06 RTM Enterprise Edition The following table lists the Sqlservr.exe version number. Release                Sqlservr.exe RTM                      2005.90.1399 SQL Server 2005  Service Pack 1 2005.90.2047 SQL Server 2005  Service Pack 2 2005.90.3042 SQL Server 2005  Service Pack 3 2005.90.4035 

I have a file win7.vhd that I've been using in a Boot to VHD scenario. Now I want to run that Windows 7 instance within Hyper-V Server alongside a few other VMs I have. I sysprepped win7.vhd and copied it over to the the Hyper-V Server and tried creating a new VM using that .vhd file. I get the "Boot failure. Reboot and Select proper Boot device or Insert Boot Media in selected Boot device" error. Any suggestions? 

$URL$ How to determine which version of SQL Server 2005 is running To determine which version of Microsoft SQL Server 2005 is running, connect to SQL Server 2005 by using SQL Server Management Studio, and then run the following Transact-SQL statement. 

TFS\TFSREPORTS is a local user (running in a workgroup not a domain). How can I re-establish this user as an appropriately permissioned user for WSS? 

I had this problem as well. After seeing $URL$ I killed the wmpnetwk.exe process and sysprep worked fine 

I have a win7 VM running in VMWare Server that I built from scratch. I wanted to use this VM as a baseline and use Converter to clone it. However while using the Converter tool, it says it can't find sysprep. I need to be able to reconfigure the SID and machine name, etc. How can I accomplish this? 

I have a couple virtual machines running in VMWare Server. I can RDP to them using their intranet IP address, but not by their machine name. Why is this? Is there a setting that will allow this? my host OS is Win7 and my VM is Win2k3 and they are both set up to get a static IP through DHCP 

An organization I help with operates in a large warehouse. Their network consists of a Clearwire modem hooked up to a consumer wireless router upstairs. Most people upstairs connect via secure wifi. One person has an ethernet line. Another ethernet line goes out through the rafters about 200 ft and connects to another consumer router downstairs. About 10 users at a time might connect to this router wirelessly. One of the ethernet ports on this router is connected to one more router about 100 ft away, and about 100 users at a time might try to connect to this router. Lately their network has been pretty flaky and I'm sure their network architecture is mostly to blame. Ideally I'd have them hire somebody to rewire the whole building to allow for a central hub, but budget constraints are budget constraints. Are there any reliable ways of chaining network devices without significantly disturbing the existing ethernet wiring throughout the building? 

Get the matching PHP tarball from $URL$ that you have currently installed in your system. Manually extract it and copy the ext/pcre directory from it to /usr/include/php/ext Then try to re-install oAuth via pecl. 

Since I am the author of the howto mentioned above I can verify that it does actually work. (It doesn't need AvantFax however) Brian, you are correct for the most part, however there are a few issues to note. Initially t38modem 1.0 cannot register on a remote SIP server, thus it cannot be used on any SIP Peer that requires authentication. (You need to use t38modem 1.2.0, which actually supports SIP registration, but fails in incoming faxes). Additionally I am not that sure that it can perform digest authentication as well, so it might not work for outgoing calls as well. Also the use of an Asterisk server offers better control of the calls going in and out of the t38modems. Imagine a scenario where you need behind a single number to have 20-30 or even 50 t38modems answering a call, you need something in front to actually perform the allocations. Let alone that t38modem is a rather unstable piece of software (especially in it's 1.0 version). By having an asterisk in front you are able to retry a different modem if one fails to answer without hanging up the line. Let alone things like changing the A-number/B-number depending on caller or destination called. Well anyhow, it's a nice setup :) 

I am trying to setup Samba4 as an active directory controller by following these two tutorials: $URL$ $URL$ Before setting up samba4 I had already configured my bind9, creating my zones (forward and reverse) and even further extended bind9 to auto-update from the DHCP server. Following the instructions I realised that my manual zone and the AD DNS Zone added automatically by samba4 where conflicting. Searching further led me to this discussion $URL$ that ends by the advice that the zones should be removed from bind9 and samba4 should handle all DNS requests. However my problem is that in my network (which this AD will be used) is a mixture of Windows, Macs and Linux boxes and I'd like to be able to have bind9 manual zones with dhcp updates as well as samba4 dc. Is there any way to combine the two? 

As the question states, I have an OSX client that is currently not a member of the domain. I am trying to access the SMB shares of the samba4 (Go to server -> smb://server) and I am being prompted to enter my username and password. When I enter my password nothing happens, Finder remains in a "Connecting..." state but it never connects. I've tried to get a tcpdump to see the exchanged packets and I think that the password is never sent across but I might be wrong. I've also tried to enable debugging on samba4 but I couldn't make something out of it. Note that the username I am using, logs in properly from Windows clients. Samba5 has been configured by following the tutorial found here $URL$ Could you please help me debug this? EDIT: As requested, OSX client is 10.8.4. It is not a member of the domain and just tries to access the share files using the username/password in the domain controller (Samba4) 

Is it possible to get a timestamp for the last login for a given ID in SQL Server? I'm attempting to clean up security on a SQL Server 2000 installation and what I'd like to do is just delete all the non-active logins. 

I have just moved a SQL Server 2000 DB over to SQL Server 2005 Express (which will be upgraded soon) and in the process I am cleaning up some bad habits from the previous owner. For one, the old web app used the "sa" account to access the DB. I've now created a new Login and mapped that to a User in this specific database with db_datawriter and db_datareader roles. Login works fine... but when the app attempts to execute any stored proc, I get an error about the proc not being found. It's a permissions issue... Connecting to the server via Management Studio using the new credentials shows me that none of the app's stored procs are even visible, so the error makes sense. But... there are two or three hundred stored procs here. How do I grant this user access to execute any of the stored procs without having to modify permissions on every one? For now I went and added the "db_owner" role for this user. But that seems like overkill... ? 

Since when does .html need a build provider??? I haven't touched any build provider or handler mappings. Haven't touched the default web.config or machine.config from the .NET config directory. How does a web server forget how to serve HTML??? :( 

So... we lost our SVN repository. Through unfortunate circumstances, we also have no viable backup. What to do? Just do an "svn export" from someone with the most recent update and start over? Is there any way to recover any history? Or connect our local checkouts to a new server? 

This is a hard question to answer without more information, like Simon mentioned. This looks like a good read: $URL$ The "Threading Explained" section has some suggested optimizations to reduce request queueing. 

I have a public-facing web server (Windows Server 2008, IIS 7) with a web site which allows anonymous access. I have a subdirectory on this site which I have protected by disabling Anonymous Authentication and enabling Windows Authentication. Working remotely, I have no problem logging in (any browser) to see these protected pages using: username (no domain) password But... when there is an ASP.NET runtime error, I have to run at on the server in order to see the error. Here's the problem: For some reason, I cannot log in to these protected pages running IE8 on the server. The login dialog box pops up, but no login/pw works in any variation I've tried. What am I missing here? What is the format the server is looking for? Edit: username/password is just a Windows login.