You could just use lynx or some other text mode browser. You can just pass the url that you do know to it and it'll probably be able to get the file for you. If you want a more streamline way to do this then you're going to need to get the final request made to the webserver for this file. If that request is different each time then a text mode browser is going to be your only option most likely. 

Selecting a specific adapter for an application is an application specific setting. You must determine how this is done in your specific application. It cannot be done on the system level. Windows You can adjust the priority of adapters on a global system level though. Use the up and down arrows on the Network connections advanced properties page. $URL$ Linux In Linux the process isn't as straight forward. You must tell Linux that one adapter is further away than the other using the . To prioritize adapters in Linux, you'd have to use the route command, to add the route with the desired metric and delete the old entry. For example: 

You need to pick a shortcut combination that is otherwise unused. The shortcut must also be on the desktop or start menu for this to work. Alternatively, you can put the shortcut on your quick launch bar. If you do this you must use the key combination of Win + 1 - 0 to launch it depending on it's order in the quick launch bar (the first items is 1 and the 10th is 0). 

This has only been tested in Chrome. Also, this doesn't work everywhere. For example, if you search from the start page instead of the location bar it will not work because the page load event doesn't fire. I'm not sure if this can be fixed or not. I've done nothing to actually hide what is happening. I'd imagine that getting the URL to show the original results would be easy to do if you replace the page content with a frame and instead of the redirect you just load the new page into the frame. Getting the search box to work right is going to be a little more tricky but in the end is also very doable. The trick is going to be to use CSS to hide it then make another textbox to be seen. Then you'l just need to add a few event handlers to sync the real search box with your fake search box. User scripts can also be used without an extensions in Chrome but I have no experience with doing that because those scripts are not supposed to be cross browser compatible and these are. If you really want this hidden that is probably going to be something you want to do as well. Otherwise, the extension is always going to be visible to anyone who looks for it. You can hide the button for the extension though by right clicking on it. 

This is usually how they die. You can try using it on another PC and it may work better. You may also want to try remove all other USB devices first. The idea is that your USB hub may have low power which is causing issues with the flash drive. Also, use a USB port directly connected to your motherboard. 

Note that %date% and %time% may be formatted differently in different locales — %date% might or might not include the day of the week, and might possibly be dd/mm instead of mm/dd; %time% might be hh:mm:ss or something else (e.g., hh-mm-ss), possibly with fractional seconds (decimal point) — so this may need to be adjusted. The offsets into %date% (10, 4, & 7) may need to be adjusted to locate the year, month, and day. If %time% contains colons, you need to remove/replace them for Windows filenames, and the hour might have a leading space (instead of zero) between 1:00 and 9:59 AM. 

Once setup, a scheduled task can be exported to other systems easily as well. on the task and select when you have it working. This file can later be added to any system by using the Import... command: 

The finished PNG (although, if it were me, I'd just follow the steps above to get it into SVG format and use InkScape to edit it): 

You probably cannot do this. phpMyAdmin is often used when you don't want to allow general remote access but you want to provide a way to manipulate the DB remotely. Because phpMyAdmin runs on the server it can access the DB without MySQL having to be configured to allow remote connections. If you want your app to be able to access that DB you're going to need to either put it on the MySQL server (or design a system which can parse the info you need from the phpMyAdmin interface [which is very difficult]). 

I have written this batch script and put it on my Gist Repo. It requires Windows Scripting Host access. Here is the file: 

Using the circled drop down you may select how your application recycles its processes. Not pictured is an option to which is what you are doing now with your code. The difference is that this setting is specific to the task; not the entire application (which may not be good enough). If you have selected the 'Allow task to be run on demand' checkbox then you may run your task from the command line like this: 

One way to fix this would be to move phpUnit down the tool chain. Instead of running it for every small change, just run it once a week or so. Another option, which works along the same lines as well, is to create a pre-production webserver. If you work in a team environment then your team probably already has this (for assembling the pull request and for testing). This is generally the best place to run your unit tests from. Even if you are working solo it might be a good idea to start using a setup like this because it has many advantages besides making unit testing less obtrusive. 

Select the shape, text, picture, or worksheet cell with the formatting you want to copy. Click , and in the group, click . 

This is a monitor configuration problem. The answer is going to be dependent on the monitor model you are using. You will want to adjust the 'Horizontal Position' (sometimes called 'H Pos' or 'H-Position') of the display. You may also want to adjust the 'Image Size' option if you have not already done so. This fix can also be done using your video card but at a slight cost in performance. NVidia driver software has an option for 'Adjust desktop size and position' which can be used to fine tune this as well. 

The main thing to remember when working with fields is that you must use Ctrl+F9 to insert a pair of . Typing them in from the keyboard does not work. 

If everything is working you can delete . A full listing of programs which can be installed this way is on the DSL site: $URL$ 

You could use ALT+E,S,ENTER. Alternately, you could install a keyboard macro application like AutoHotKey. In AutoHotKey, add the following to your script (immediately before the line which reads, ): 

If you have GNU tools installed you can do this from the command line. You haven't specified how you'd like to break these pages aside from by the number of characters. split can do this using the -b parameter. Something like: 

That should open in IE just fine. UPDATE To make this work with a shortcut key you simply need to assign a shortcut key to it. You do this by right clicking the shortcut and selecting . 

I'm going to guess that you've figured this out by now. For others who may have a similar question, here is an answer: 

The suggested way to install them is with getgnuwin32. BTW, if you just wanted to see text files it'd be like this: 

If you type at the command prompt it'll bring up a dialog which explains how to do this thoroughly. I think the command you are wanting would look like this: 

You want to add these users to the www-data group first. Then the intended method is to use . This will set the on this folder meaning that it's group will be used for new files. Unfortunately, this doesn't help for the sub dirs. To keep those up to date you'll need to regularly run this after directory tree modifications: . This will search for all sub dirs and enable the . The most annoying part is that this will need to be done to any parent dirs before adding children meaning that sometimes you need to run this several times when making changes and if you forget to do that then you'll need to just do the chown command anyway: . This is what I say to do but I find that this whole plan is just annoying for me though. In reality what I do is work on a development server with completely unrelated permissions. After I make changes I have a script that syncs to prod server and sets all ownership and permissions every time to ensure that everything is ALWAYS right. This method saves a lot of time because I never need to worry about why permissions are borked. I just run the script and it is all magically working again. 

Copy \ paste and repeat. It'll get increasingly faster as you go and no matter how large the image it'll fill up quickly. 

You don't really want to use a loopback address for this. Use either an internal or external real address (or use nothing like I'll show you). Try this Apache config setup: 

Then you want to add a method which calls it. For example, if you have a button then you'd use something like this: 

You may need to add the worksheet references back in if you need them. To do that just change all references to to . 

We use the X parameter because it adds the /q replacement which allows us to search for those pesky quotes. The M option is needed so that we can actually replace new lines (also, without it we'd have an extra blank line at the end). Further information can be found in the JScript RegEx reference. Note: I've now fixed some issues with the above replacements and made them much simpler using better commands for this. 

I've never used refind (are you kidding me with that capitalization?) but can't you just edit the stanza? $URL$ Quote: 

You could use virtualization for this. Just load Linux into a VM and mount the USB from there. Then use whatever file sharing method (ftp, scp, samba, etc...) you want to transfer the files to your Windows system from there. 

You've identified several things related to process management that you'd like your application to be capable of doing. You've also mentioned that you want this to be highly automated (you are wanting to automatically kill it on a regular interval). To do that you're going to use a 'Scheduled Task'. I suggest that you actually utilize the 'Task Scheduler' better to begin with. You can set it up to run exactly how you like. Then instead of invoking your application you can just invoke the 'Scheduled Task'. This will give you many advantages. Not the least of which being a fully implemented GUI easy enough for any system administrator to configure to their exact needs (and they are already used to it, most likely). Even the single instance part of your application could have been done with 'Scheduled Tasks' alone (but using both ways may be better; to be sure no can simply make a copy of the task and run that to bypass the rule). 

In general, each sed command works from the same source data and they don't see each others changes. That isn't a problem when using the shell to pipe things around. If you don't want to use the shell to pipe output then you must use the hold buffer. This should do what you want though: 

Make a new shortcut for Google Chrome on your desktop Right-click on the shortcut and click in the drop-down menu In the textbox for , add a space at the end of the text already there, and then add the following text: Hit in the bottom right corner The button should disappear next time Chrome is restarted. 

Messages, such as clicks, are queued. It is not possible to send multiple messages at the same time. You can only send one right after the other. That can be done by firing a mouse click event from your current event handler. You should also know that how this is done is completely language dependent. 

Replacing the parameters with the correct values for your situation. Test this to make sure it is suspending your jobs correctly. Now, go to the SpeedFan configure dialog and select the 'Events' tab. Then, create an event to launch the script when your criteria are met: 

This is written to be ran from a batch file. If you're typing his out each time then you're wasting your time. Change the 100 to any number of returns you'd like. Update If HTML is fine then use this: