I searched that error and found an Arch Wiki and their suggestion was that either pulseaudio-bluetooth is not installed or pulseaudio needs to be restarted, or the module should be loaded with . I already have the first installed, the second did not work, and the last gave access denied. 

When you download, run the .bat file. Password is "raspberry" of course. To get to GUI and Desktop enter "startx". Make sure to shut the simulator down correctly just like on a real Pi. 

From what I have seen and heard in multiple places, this is most probably a problem with your supply. Many times as you were saying the description of the adapter is not the same as what it actually outputs because of faulty hardware. I do not know which model you have but many of the models need at least around 700ma so there is not much room for error there. I would highly suggest getting a solid high amp adapter for the Pi which you will want in any case for other power hungry projects. 

I then created a splashscreen and from the moment the screen Pi boots, until the login prompt is issued I do not see any words because of my splashscreen. To do this: 

I found the answer by mistake when I was getting a bash file to run at boot! Solution To fix this problem: 

If I understand your problem you want to get to raspi-config. Open a LX-Terminal and type . This will bring you to the configuration menu. Otherwise, see below. If you are talking about the "asplashscreen" try this. Navigate here: and look for the function. Then insert as the first line in the function: . Possibly, you could change these to fix your problem in config.txt. 

But ffmpeg returns an error saying that I must select at least one output source. How can I fix this to recognize that it is supposed to pipe it to the pifm program? 

I have no experience with the Matchbox Window Manager, but I always use the Ratpoison Window Manager (package "ratpoison" in Raspbian/Debian/Ubuntu) for such purposes. Ratpoison makes any window full-screen by default and only adds a 1 pixel border by default -- but it can be configured to have no border at all. Putting into should suffice for that. 

You can use (usually blue coloured) USB 3.x ports (at least those marked with a battery symbol) if your PC has one. They can provide more than the 500mA of a normal USB 2.x port. I have an internal USB 3.x hub in my PC which suffices to power an Raspberry Pi 3 in most cases. (Occassionally under heavy load the symbol for not enough power showed up on the screen, but it never crashed or rebooted because of that.) At least Thinkpads (maybe also other devices) also have yellow coloured USB ports (see $URL$ which can also provide power if the laptop is not on. That's probably also to consider when choosing which USB socket to use to power an Raspberry Pi. 

There are not really enough details in your question to find the source of the failing graphical login, but usually something important for the X session doesn't start up properly and hence the session setup fails and you're back at the login screen. To debug such issues further, have a look at the end of the log file . Maybe you want to add your findings to the posting retro-actively so you can get better fitting and less generic answers. One guess though: Did you make the default , too? Because that's not supported by since its compatibility mode is not good enough for such a purpose. 

Today I stumbled upon the WDLabs Media Stick for the Raspberry Pi Compute Module at the ModMyPi Online Store and was immediately reminded of the Intel Compute Sticks or the ASUS Stick PCs. But the WDLabs Media Stick doesn't seem to be powered over HDMI as it still needs a 5V input over a Micro-USB socket according to the (very short) PDF manual. So I wonder: Is it possible with some intermediate board to power a Raspberry Pi Zero or a Raspberry Pi Compute Module from the HDMI port of a TV? (I imagine this intermediate board to be similar to those Power-over-Ethernet adapters you can get for the normal Raspberry Pi.) There is an rather old thread on this topic on the Raspberry Pi forums which says it's impossible. But given some of the comments in there about e.g. the MHL standard and the fact that the Raspberry Pi Zero didn't exist back then, I expect that most information in that thread is outdated. Also the claim that HDMI sinks can only provide about 50mA (which is about the amount of power two keyboard LEDs consume) seems to invalidated by the pure existence of the Intel Compute Stick. But another not so old thread on Quora comes to the same conclusion: HDMI only offers 50mA. Or is maybe my assumption wrong that the Intel Compute Stick and similar devices are powered over the HDMI port? Because they're usually advertised as "just plug it into an HDMI TV or monitor and start working" which suggests that no additional power supply is necessary. Then again, MHL seems to provide between 500mA (MHL 1) to 2A (MHL 3) over an HDMI connector. So in theory it should be possible to power even an Raspberry Pi 2 over an MHL connector if there's an intermediate board which takes care that both HDMI signal and power are connected to the correct sockets or GPIO pins on the Raspberry Pi. Anyone already did something like that? Or is there already a ready to use board/HAT/pHAT for that? Actually the ZeroStem follows a similar idea, just with USB instead of HDMI, i.e. making a USB stick out of the Raspberry Pi Zero. At least the thought of having a Rasperry Pi Zero W with a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse which just connects to the MHL-enabled HDMI port (and really nothing else ;-) of a TV to start working sounds like a really nice setup. 

I'm having an issue with my Pi 3 regarding power/heat issues. I have a setup where a UBEC has been powering a Raspberry Pi 3, 5in HDMI touchscreen, and small fan for a project. It was running fine with temperatures measured from being less than 70 . Recently, the Pi would not boot even though the UBEC was still giving power to the screen. I opened the case it was in, and plugged power into the UBEC again. I thought I saw a faint curl of smoke and smelled a faint burning smell but I inspected the Pi and UBEC and they all looked good. I booted the Pi 3 again without the extra screen and case and used it for 2 or 3 hours using a 5v 2A power supply I had. It worked fine but there was a solid rainbow square in the corner so I decided to power the Pi with the UBEC again over the GPIO like in the previous setup. I did this and the Pi booted, but after about ten minutes it started rebooting continuously and the UBEC light flickered of and on. I tried powering a Pi 2 and Pi B+ with the same UBEC and it worked perfectly. The UBEC is rated at 5V/3A and 5A max. I tried different cards with different OS's that I knew worked in the other models and the Pi 3 would sometimes boot but always start rebooting after max 10 mins. At one point it would not boot being powered with 5V/2A supply or the UBEC. I let it alone for an hour and then it would boot again, but I had the same problem after a couple of minutes. All I can think of is some fuse on the Pi, that won't let it boot if its too hot and I should just wait a day or two before using it again? Any ideas what might be the problem? Thank you in advance. 

In the O'Reilly book "Raspberry Pi Hacks" there is Hack 40 "Make Your Pi Water-Resistant (Without a Case)" in which they describe how they make a Raspberry Pi temporarily water-resistant using Rustoleum's NeverWet paint. Then I got my hands on a (not so limited?) matte-black Pimoroni Pibow Midnight case. But as can be seen on this image the green PCB of the Raspberry Pi shines through. So I wondered how it might look like if I'd paint the Raspberry Pi in matte-black, too. Hence my question is: Is it safe to paint the Raspberry Pi in a different color and if so, is there (preferably matte-black) color/varnish/coating which is (preferably explicitly) non-conductive and could be used to give a Raspberry Pi PCB and its chips a different color? So far I only found this thread on the web but most replies seem to be about wrapping stuff in tape to hide the PCB. Another web page touches the topic, but only lists material, no actual product or so. Side questions: Anyone did something like this already? Any side effects on the cooling? 

After having setup SSH keys for authentication as mentioned in the first answer, you can disable password authentication (i.e. so that only logins with SSH keys work), by adding the line 

I've tried labeling them with tiny, usually two-line labels printed with a Brother P-Touch series label printer. But I actually was stumbling upon this posting because I was looking for another solution. Such labels printed are small enough to fit onto a microSD card and thin enough to work with most (normal-size) SD card slots or readers, so that method is fine for older Raspberry Pis. But those labels already too thick for most microSD card slots, at least for those on the Raspberry Pi 2 and 3. They either shave off when putting the microSD card into the slot, or, if I managed that, they're much harder to get out again, especially with the Raspberry Pi 3 which has no more counter spring inside the slot. So I wonder: Are the super-thin label tapes for Brother P-Touch printers which do not shave off from microSD cards? Because in general I'm very happy with that way to get my microSD cards organized. 

You can use ssh to connect to the Pi. I believe this works with noobs and I guarantee it works with Raspbian. Plug the Pi into your modem via an ethernet cable and connect your laptop to the modem also. Open a terminal on the Ubuntu machine and type ssh pi@ipaddress where ipaddress is the address of the Pi(You can find it in the connected device section on your modem). Then, enter pi and raspberry and you are connected. 

I am running a custom version of Raspbian on my B+ with a touchscreen. This OS was customized to work with the WaveShare SpotPear A screen they sell. It is configured to auto login to to the desktop as the pi user. I wan't to disable that so I tried the following: 

To turn the backlight off through software you could follow this tutorial by adding (see tutorial for full setup). This would be put in the if clause above right after . This would make the screen turn off at the same time that it blanks out. To turn it back on you would put the line in the function above in the file right after . 

Try this command: This will give you all the gifs on the system. I doubt there will be that many and you can find which one is the animation for the boot screen. 

I am sure the paths I have a real files and I know that because it works perfectly from terminal. For some reason the call method is not liking this line. I tried all sorts of combinations of quotes to make it know which were the paths, etc but I have not been able to get it to work. From Python I am calling it like this: where $ is the above command. If I change those quotes to single quotes it gives a syntax error: 

is usually declared in . If you haven't deleted that file or its symlink at or removed the directive in it, that's where the directory is configured. If you've put your into , but haven't called afterwards (which will create an according symlink in , it won't be recognized. 

It's not the OS (and also not the Display Manager) which has that option, but the Window Manager — the program which renders the frames around windows and its title bar. (At least in the Unix/Linux/BSD world that's independent of the OS.) Raspbian uses LXDE as default desktop environment which itself uses by default the OpenBox window manager. The OpenBox window manager can be configured using the command. (I'm not sure if it is installed by default. If not, use "apt-get install obconf" to install it.) If you start and choose the Mouse tab, there is a checkbox labeled 

The "small multi-colour square … on the top right side of the screen" is an indicator that the Raspberry Pi is not getting enough power over the MicroUSB socket. This potentially could cause followup issues. For the Raspberry Pi 3, a 2.5A power supply is recommended. (For the Raspberry Pi 2, a 2.0A power supply is said to suffice although a 2.1A power supply seems to be recommended.) 

Triggerhappy is only used in raspi-config's init script, see line 17 of the init script. There it checks if any of the Shift keys is hold down at boot time to disable the ondemand scaling governor. That means that itself does not really need triggerhappy, just its boot up script. And the way that script uses doesn't seem to need the daemon running. 

It seems you initially installed Raspbian Lite which does not come with a GUI by default. You at least need to install the package xinit (e.g. using ) so that can find . But you very likely need to install more packages to get a usable GUI on Raspbian Lite, e.g. . 

From what I have seen it looks like bluetooth-agent is in fact not available in Jessie. However, this might work to automate : 

I have noticed that when I in Raspbian run the commands: and there are still files related to the package on my system such as folders with the package name in my directory. I even ran and and the folders were still there. I am concerned that overtime my system will have a lot of useless junk that apt-get did not keep catch when uninstalling the program. I even ran Bleachbit and it did not get rid of the folders. Of course I can just delete them but I don't know if there are other config files related to the package so I would like to know a clean way of totally removing a package such that a system is exactly like it was before installing the package. Is that possible? Am I running apt-get the wrong way? Also, does anyone know if this is a problem with Arch Linux's Pacman manager too? 

You could use and . I have never done much with bluetooth but I don't believe you need much more to get a basic connection. To get this running at boot, put the line with the path to the script in with a & to fork it to the background, e.g 

I have a project that requires a fan to keep the Pi cool due to the terrible ventilation. It's a 5v 0.6w fan. So I thought I could use this wiring here: 

In the latest version of Raspbian (kernel 4.4), any file I stream through to or using the 3.5mm headphone jack works perfectly. However, in Firefox when I go to any site, it will play the video fine but the only sound you get is a loud static hissing sound regardless of whether you use the 3.5mm or HDMI audio output. This happens on sites that use like Youtube and sites that don't like Putlocker which uses . How can I fix this? EDIT: If I stream media through this issue disappears. However, I believe uses . EDIT2: I installed chromium-browser and it works perfectly on youtube and other sites with the audio and the video, I believe its a firefox issue but I am still unsure what is causing it.