So my question then is still the and what the true meaning of when dealing with NTLMv2? My thinking is session security are the keywords here. Our 2008 server is set to level 5 Our 2000 server is set to level 1 The 2000 server cannot under any circumstances be changed from level 1 as unfortunately it would break authentication to many legacy devices. So to me it sounds like the issue is at level 3 where the session is passing NTLM. 

I have heard some hosts will block countries that have a high level of malicious activity claiming they are protecting the customer. This however, seems ridiculous to me as well. Most will block IP addresses and not the entire country so it seems a little overkill to me. My recommendation is find a new host as they do not have the right to say who can or cannot visit your site. It is also possible it is something on your end, it is possible for yourself to block out a country using GeoIP 

Are you still able to ping the box after this happens or does it become completely unresponsive? Any backups running during that time? Is this server a dedicated Exchange server or does it have other functions? Otherwise, I agree witi Itai, you should cross reference the the event logs with the time in which your machine goes down. You may also need to get a dump of your system and post any pertinent information here. If it is just exchange that is failing and you still have access to your system, check Task Manager to gather what processes are running during that time. 

EDIT With 2003 you should follow these instructions to reinstall the service. It will come down to which you prefer to try your own that you found or these. I know you were looking for "official" documentation. The link is a KB article. or: 

Windows 2008 has SSLv2 and SSLv3 enabled by default. To disable SSLv2 on Windows 2008 you may do the following: Create a key named under: Create a value and name it ensure the value data is Keep in mind that this setting only affects services and .exe's that actually use SCHANNEL.dll for SSL 

We know this password to be correct, but since these two domains (Win2000 & Win2008) do not have a trust setup what authentication account needs to be used? One that resides on the Win2000 hosted domain? 

Try typing in the start menu search bar, does anything come up? This should be the users startup folder. Otherwise there is a great article located here on how to recover your "Startup" 

You don't really need the task to run infinitely just long enough that you never have to worry about it again...set the end date 50 years into the future. It shouldn't really matter either way 

You didn't give me much more information as some commands are specific to the type of nas you have but shot in the dark. Manually enable the encryption on this replacement drive with the existing KeyID that is on the assigned storage controller, by running the following commands: 

From here you can see the Name and Description of each snap in. You then can verify against another computer or your own knowledge of what you expect to see. 

For security reasons, we need to "lock" some of the preferences in Mozilla Firefox. We are running Windows XP and the latest version of Mozilla version 14.0.1. In particular some of the security preferences such as . If the user were to do , we would like the particular options to be greyed out so they cannot click on them. I have read that this can be done by adding the following in: 

I was unsure if VMware was emulating the CPU when I asked this question. Assuming it did we could look at the physical hosts interrupts to determine the best way to divide up our resources. However, there is no emulation that takes place at all. As it was explained, consider a virtual system board with a hole, the guest OS simply looks through the hole and sees one of the cores in the host server. This takes the pressure of VMware to change theCPU emulation software each time a vendor introduced new instruction sets. The other reasoning is it adds too much overhead. The VMkernel schedules simultaneously CPU cycles for multi-CPU VMs. When the VM requests for cycles the request goes into a queue for the host to process and the host waits until there are at least two cores or hyperthreads to schedule that VM. 

Update 2 I have done some research into NTLMv2 and the settings that are required as the whole thing was getting to me. I stumbled upon the following information:from the following source: 

At a past company they used Rackwise. At another company they picked Connectwise as it combined asset discovery and mapping with an IT help desk. I think for smaller IT Consulting firms there is a lot of value for these types of tools especially when it comes to asset discovery. So many times a customer will plug in a random computer, or worse, a router without any knowledge to the IT firm. Further, it seems they never know just how many computers they have or where they are all located. 

The company I work for uses WebEx on a daily basis for meetings and sharing sessions, including that are considered to have security concerns. The following article is available which speaks about WebEx security methods. $URL$ 

Your question is a little hard to decipher but I think I understand. It is better to create a distribution list within Active Directory thus allowing all your users to easily send mail using the DL. If you create this in exchange itself your users must then share this address with others so they may add it their own outlook. 

To be honest, its very difficult to find the parts that are compatible with ESXi. Especially building from scratch. You are way better off going to a site such as ebay for a used desktop of sorts. Personally, I picked up a Dell T5500 for $525 (Dual Quad-Core processors, 16GB of RAM, RAID card). Otherwise your first step will be to check what is compatible and what is not. 

When using APC one of the things you need to ask yourself how much memory will be allocated to APC. controls how much memory will be allocated. All my setups are configured to use 30M (I believe 32M is the default option). Also, check your "cache full count" to ensure APC is actually working. This shows how often the cache is at maximum capacity. If the cache is constantly being filled it will certainly take a heavy hit on your scripts performance. You could also try allowing PHP to use more memory as a test case 

I ran into this issue awhile back, check to see if libgdbm is installed, if it is do the following to ensure its linked correctly: Just noticed you said you were using RHEL5 same system I was using so these should work perfectly for you 

is not low for and is actually the default value, you are right that it will vary on different installations, I have mine set to 600 as well. 

Problem: We have a shared folder that resides on a NAS using a Windows 2008 AD for the authentication with the proper permissions setup. When the Windows 2000 machine tries to open the share residing on the Win2008 machine, it is prompted for a username and password. Upon entering the credentials it continuously re-asks for credentials. Important Details: The Windows 2000 machine can ping both the XP machines and the Windows 2008 Server The Windows 2008 machine is mandated to only use NTLMv2 The Windows 2000 machine was originally set to NTLM but was recently switched to for the purpose of trying to connect to the share. As I am sure it will come up, we are using Windows 2000 because of contractual obligations Questions: Why is password Authentication failing in this case? After setting a GPO for the Win2000 machine for it to use NTLMv2, we used SECEDIT to update the GPOs without rebooting. Does anyone know if this is sufficient or will a reboot be required? 

There is a website located on this blog that was developed to test WinHTTP. The link directly to the site is here. 

Check out KVM might be a good alternative for you and use something like Virt-Manager to manage your virtual machines. 

which to my knowledge you basically cannot update unless you upgrade RHEL. Our systems were running RHEL5 for the longest time and we had the same issue with installing software, upgrade or basically enter dependency hell. Try and find a package for this software from back in the rhel4 days? 

We have around 300 RHEL servers that are currently connecting to a Puppetmaster server. However, we have noticed some performance bottlenecks and it is the point of failure in our system. I am fairly new to puppet in general and I am considering creating a decentralized puppet architecture instead of having Puppet clients connect to the Puppetmaster server. Aside from what I would suspect to happen such as performance gain and lack of signing and exchanging SSL certs for new machines, what are other pros and cons to setting up a decentralized architecture? 

There are a lot of steps you can take to slowly figure out what the issue might be. I would first check if there are any available alerts and look at the hosts statistics to see how the system is running (CPU, Memory, etc.). This will go a long way to helping figure out the issue. Otherwise "slow" isn't really a good description for anyone to help solve an issue. If you have other VM's installed on the host check to see how they are running. Is your VM on the same datastore as all your other VM's? What are the specs of your host machine? 

This post probably belongs on SuperUser...Hopefully this can point you in the right direction, this card is made by Hawell a Chinese Manufacturer. Their website is found here. Good luck. 

As an example I ran a Piwik installation load balanced over three servers and with eAccelerator and it was able to handle about 15 hits per second. Once I switched to APC and narrowed down the settings I needed for my installation we were achieving over 40 hits per second (more than 2 million hits per month) without any flaws in the Piwik web interface. Here is an image of our CPU with APC on & off (Piwik uses a cron job to gather its information, but the point is its effectiveness) 

For KDE you can put a symbolic link to an executable in the directory home/username/.kde/autostart For GNOME just go to 

You may have to reissue your cert using a new CSR check out the following link. It is similar to the directions you have already followed but with a little more instruction to getting around this error. $URL$ 

You should check out this link: $URL$ it provides a matrix of what is supported in each version. Standard has many more advanced features than Web such as the edit and design tools as well as not being able to duplicate data between more than one database, though there are some free options you can use to make up for what Web lacks. 

Open and into the location where the file is at Type which will show you the hidden files and the 8.3 filenames which usually look like: Since it is a folder you want to delete, run 

If they haven't already done so, try running fsck which will check the consistency of the file system. Do you get this error when trying to do any other tasks, maybe ? There is some sort of communication error going on 

At a past company they used Rackwise. At another company they picked Connectwise as it combined asset discovery and mapping with an IT help desk. I think for smaller IT Consulting firms there is a lot of value for these types of tools especially when it comes to asset discovery. So many times a customer will plug in a random computer, or worse, a router without any knowledge to the IT firm. 

I am not sure if its the default option but you could check to see if oplocking is enabled. More information can be found here 

Verify the replacement drive has the same KeyID as the other SEDs and that it is Locked. Note: The drive has to be Locked to enable storage encryption on the drive. 

The best I have used so far is Observium hands down. It supports almost an endless amount of metrics. We looked at several other options including the ones mentioned here but ultimately decided upon Observium. 

One thing that may help is to go into the registry at this location (assuming your speaking about MMC): 

is suppose to resolve all dependencies and download the packages also resolves dependencies and downloads them My guess is that repotrack is downloading all the dependencies for any architecture since it doesn't appear you specified the architecture which could account for the difference in what you see downloaded. I believe you use the switch to specify your architecture 

In 2008, you can see who is logged into RWW by typing in the command prompt but I am not sure if it will work in 2003 as I can't try it. I also happened to find some interesting information about a user who figured out how to track users via the event logs 

Check to make sure your settings on the "isolated" server resemble those on the server you are using to download the updates as I believe those settings are captured in the metadata file. These can include settings on assigning computers to groups, products and classifications, etc. 

Credit:richardkok I feel like I am almost there but I am having a difficult time processing through it. 

We have run into an issue with one of our machines which keeps the GPO settings after removal from the Domain. We must connect this machine to the domain to receive updates from our WSUS Server. After running the updates, we remove the machine from the domain and reboot. However, the GPO settings are sticking after removal which prevents the machine from functioning properly. This machine is located in a closed environment. Any ideas how to rid this machine of GPOs? Running Windows 2008 R2