There is no true atomicity over the network without lots of engineering to provide it, and the more engineering required the more complicated it will be. There are serious tradeoffs to consider. This answer offers you no insight on what to do when the work is half done. NFSv3 supports a atomic locking mechanism in newer kernels (well, pretty old to be frank) $URL$ . So some mechanism for a semaphore in theory can be acheived in the following way. 

This isn't any faster than a sequential read of the big file, but allows you to split up the file into smaller chunks which can be loaded in parallel whilst the remaining data is completed. Like most compressed output, its not seekable (you cannot jump X bytes ahead) so the biggest downside you have is if the process aborts for some reason you'd be forced to restart the whole thing from scratch. Python provides support for doing something like this via the zipfile module. 

Invoke the program by saving it, it. Then doing If this works, it will produce no output. If it fails, it will complain about something and quit. 

Its stuck doing something, given you said it had in a strace output I'd say its probably waiting for the other end of a socket connection send it data. Like a website has given up sending you data. Thats a total guess though. There almost certainly should be a file descriptor for 4 which gives more information if you try and see what its up to. 

Other zones can in effect be free of memory but still you get an OOM because the zone you want is not free. OOM killer is a possible means to free memory when the value is greater than the value. If you check your zone you can see that this is the case here. Your biggest memory consumers are and . Either retune them to alter their memory usage, or get more memory for them. 

This will create a device called 'errdev0' (typically in /dev/mapper). When you type it will wait for stdin and will finish on ^D being input. In the example above, we've made a 5 sector hole (2.5kb) at sectors 261144 of the loop device. We then continue through the loop device as normal. This script will attempt to generate you a table that will place holes at random locations approximately spread out around 16Mb (although its pretty random). 

Newer versions of python introduced a default behaviour of adding the property on all file descriptors to avoid this behaviour. You can do the same yourself on the listening socket too using the module, but that may break other aspects of your application so you would need to test for this. 

The RPM installs a module for which you'll need and also a policy for which is also necessary for this to run. The file for this module is installed in . The first stage in this process is to increase the number of categories that the main httpd process runs as, so that it can produce child threads that span the correct range. In the file change: 

When the VM starts it commits to 4G of memory. This is how much it can have, but not necessarily how much it will actually use. As the VM starts to consume memory, it will allocate pages up as needed up to what it has been committed. Allocation actually places the memory into the ram/swap. In your scenario, indeed the VM may (I dont know the virtualbox model but I'll take your word for it) commit to 4G of memory. As the VM fills up the pagecache it will allocate all of that memory, again as you mentioned. What wont happen however is virtualbox freeing the memory that has been allocated when you drop caches on the VM. So by you flushing the page cache out, whilst it appears that the memory is free on the VM, the memory is still allocated and used to the hypervisor. As such, you have not saved yourself any memory whatsoever on the host laptop, in fact you've just wasted it because what memory could have been used for preventing I/O lookups in the VM are no longer available. 

The target types are file_t. That normally is the case where no type was ever set on the file and that is the default. You'll need to relabel the filesystem in order to get things going again. Normally the command fixfiles is used for this on redhat but I'm pretty sure that relates to RPM databases for some work so isn't likely as relevent in gentoo. You should be able to use restorecon though. You'll need to boot into a permissive mode to try and relabel the filesystem. 

To check if modules without parameters in /sys show up as having parameters in modinfo but I couldnt find any. I am no expert, but the difference here is that modinfo reads the module file itself for the parameters by looking in the .modinfo elf headers, whereas sys is reading these from its runtime variant. It may be possible to have parameters you can modify at runtime which dont appear as a modinfo parameter value, but since the module format should be pretty fixed I dont imagine its possible for you to pass a option parameter to a module when loading without there being a .modinfo structure for it linked in. I am curious, does your module suggest there are parameters passable with modinfo when you check it that way but there are none in /sys for it? Certainly on my system I was unable to find any examples of this using the command provided above. 

Load is a very often misunderstood value on Linux. On Linux it is the measurement of all tasks in the running or uninterruptible sleep state. Note this is tasks, not processes. Threads are included in this value. Load is calculated by the kernel every five seconds and is a weighted average. That is the minute load is the average of 5/60, the five minute 5/300 and the fifteen 5/900. Generally speaking, load as a pure number has little value without a point of reference and I consider the value often misrepresented. Misconception 1: Load as a Ratio 

If you continue to receive errors it would seem as though there has been some underlying filesystem corruption or the underlying block device in the virtual machine is thin provisioned without enough actual filesystem space on the hypervisor to support that much space. 

I found the best way to solve this problem is with POSIX ACLs. Typically these four commands will give you what you want. 

The best way to fix this is to avoid using standard unix permissions as enforcement. The following four commands should resolve this: 

Actually writes the data into memory as writeback (up to 3.2GB) and does not actually write it out to disk. Its slower (but not a realistic performance benchmark) on the VM because you've probably assigned a much lower memory assignment to the VM itself (lets say 2G) and this leads to only providing ~400MB of writeback before it will force the contents to disk. If you run that command, then run , you'll notice sync takes a long time to return. You need to run your command doing the following instead to get a better idea of your actual throughput. 

I tested this having two competing applications send data as fast as possible to a neighbouring host over 2 services. Where one of the services was in class 1:11. They both sent 5 seconds worth of traffic over 100mbit (so 60MB of data streamed). When running classless, as expected both finish in 10 seconds (both sharing the link so the time is divided equally). With this QoS setup, the priority service finished in 5 seconds whereas the low priority service finished in 10 (as if low priority is waiting for high priority to finish first), which I think is what you want. 

Now, you must assign each virtual host in apache a category. This is done by adding a line such as in the example below called .