But I do have an issue when I try to cut it at the following times, and it's whether I try to cut the 1 minute one or the whole 2 min 13sec one. If I cut with -ss 0 -t 1, it produces a file that is 1s 22ms. So that's not too bad that's fairly close to one second. 1.022 seconds is quite good for an attempt to cut one second. If I cut with -ss 0 -t 2, it produces a file that is 3s 19ms That is terrible! it's meant to be one second! If I cut with -ss 0 -t 30 then it is fine it does 30s 1ms. Or this video for example, also an mp4 $URL$ 

I didn't like software solutions 'cos (if I recall from ones I tried) when you close the software, or restart and the software hasn't yet loaded, then the brightness BOOMS bright Also, with software.. I tried dimmer and flux.. If I recall from when I tried them, they didn't dim the taskbar, though was a while back. A thing over the screen that dims the light is far more reliable. Your problem is more at night you say, so it's the brightness of the screen really. Rather than contrast. You can increase the light in your room during the night, and another thing you can do though is get a Vinyl sheet and even, specifically, a neutral density film, like from here $URL$ Here is an example of one, perhaps not placed completely against the screen but, an example. Half on the screen, Half off the screen, so you see the difference 

note- I have solved this and will post my answer, though other answers are welcome of course. I have a VBS file, the contents doesn't matter but it acts as a wrapper and runs another program. The point is I want to change the icon of the VBS file to anything e.g. to the icon for windows calculator. Another VBS file I might want to change to the icon of another program. So I don't want to change all VBS files to the same icon. As a demonstration, I have a directory that has blah.vbs and blah.lnk I try to drag either of them to the taskbar, but I get a Wscript icon. 

Seems to be to do with the different ways i'd tried setting the vbsc extension. I cannot explain how it happened but found a way to solve it which i'll explore. To start with when I looked into changing association, I looked at 'default programs editor' and start.."change the file type associated with a specific extension" and making a .vbsc icon and choosing a program with open with, and assoc with ftype. When I looked at the icon even after ftype was set to e.g. calc or charmap , the icon was not too oddly, set to an icon that looked like something that wasn't calc or charmap, it was wscript.exe or cscript.exe No doubt the reason was that when setting an icon's association with 'open with' it changes the icon and so later changes with ftype hadn't. I don't care about the icon, but I figured maybe there was some other lingering association with cscript that might budge when I change it with open with. Maybe 'open with' is a bit stronger / more enforcing, than ftype. I think 'open with' claimed it was set to calc too,but I figured maybe not set properly.. changed it to charmap and hey presto now typing the filename in cmd opened charmap and ftype updated too. I have tried to retrigger the issue but the issue isn't retriggering, and ftype seems to be operating fine now. But if it happened again i'd know to create an icon with that extension and use 'open with', and let that do its thing and set ftype, and the association should be made properly. 

I'm sure you mean cmd.exe (the NT command prompt) rather than DOS. DOS fell out of use after Win9X, and would need a tweak to support filenames > 8 characters. I usually image as it's quicker, or clone, and haven't done a file copy in a while, but you could attach both hard drives to usb, and do 

Regarding bootup, that's the SMART fan option in the BIOS. With Asus Motherboards they start up the fan on max for a moment while booting, then the SMART FAN option if enabled, kicks in and the fan goes quieter, adjusting no doubt based on temperature. I don't recall what happens on hibernation. Try fiddling around in your BIOS.. This is a bit of a wild guess but maybe there's a setting there about power modes that causes this. Perhaps you should look into the graphics cards fans going crazy.. if it happens on bootup too, or is something happening after "shutdown", and it's getting hot..You could try pulling the plug, touching the case to remove static, and checking the temp of the graphics card chip with your finger Does your PC Shutdown at all? If not or regardless, try changing the PSU, or putting the PSU onto another motherboard/computer. You could also try backprobing with a multimeter, and comparing with a computer that's ok. For shutdown and hibernation. 

It would be bad practice if it's not necessary. For some networks it may be necessary. And you won't know. It's not your decision to make. Give the network administrators the option on what IP to bind it on. Added note to clarify It's not for you to make the decision of what IP to bind onto and not give the network admin the option to change it (which is what it sounds like you're talking about). It's fine for you to offer a default. 

There is no hum of death. There's a click of death - with spinning disk drives, and it doesn't last long! When I heard a hard drive start clicking, it died within hours or within 30min even. How it sounds when it "died" is another matter I haven't looked at. Anyhow, the problem of a hard drive not powering up, I think that's often the PCB. If you have a hard drive of the same model, you can unscrew the PCBs off them and swap them. I'm not talking about removing the metal lid, dust may get in I suppose and one wouldn't want that, that's more specialist. But replacing the PCB is fine. 

But I can't get babelmap to change the font to display all symbols in a particular font. See in its main window babelmap isn't showing U+1F381 

If I do I see it is matching things it shouldn't match, like the line that reads which contains no J. 

from a cmd window. start dir <-- opens new cmd window and keeps it open. so it by default does start cmd /k dir. start cmd wget (equivalent to your exe) closes it, so seems to do start cmd /c wget. start cmd /k wget (as in my suggestion four hours ago that you perhaps couldn't read or understand or bother trying) keeps it open. Similarly with your exe. furthermore it's a pretty lame question 'cos if you just googled how to stop cmd window from closing, you'd see stranght away about cmd /k and cmd /c, And if you did cmd /? you'd see them. It's not like with linux where you have tons of switches and you have to read pages and pages to find what you want. 

dell keys only work on dell windows cds / dell windows iso. you may be able to get a dell cd off ebay or off dell. You already have a dell license key. You can install windows from a regular windows cd but then you need a regular key not a dell key. 

At the moment you think you put it in c:\windows\system32 and you are having trouble running it from the command prompt. forget the path environment variable for now. You have a weirder problem that you can't seem to even run it directly. A good thing to do then, is Go to \windows\system32 C:\>CD \Windows\System32 C:\Windows\System32>telnet any luck? probably not Make a directory C:\blah Open windows explorer. Copy telnet.exe to that directory Open a command prompt 

Tweezers should do it. Have you tried them? I think I used them once. I read about it along with the credit card method! You may want to use both But from the sound of things, tweezers would be more useful to you. 

I want the images in both jpg and png format. So I have the doc files.. asdf.docx 270KB $URL$ asdflist.docx 12KB $URL$ I want to get asdf.jpg asdf.png asdflist.jpg asdflist.png i.e. each of those in jpg and in png same resolution, maintaining aspect ratio. really I want to be able to choose the resolution. And the aspect ratio should be like a page of a word document. I want quite a high res like length 3-4K pixels. But any method where I can convert while choosing a resolution would enable me to do that. I am on MS Office Pro Plus 2013. I tried "paste special" but that didn't include the word art. 

Indeed, I see .EXE is not listed, and a bit odd that literal %PATHEXT% is listed in there. Seems almost infinitely recursive(if DOS were to even handle recursion / recursion there, which it wouldn't)! 

If you're able to start an OS install(I guess you mean like from a CD) from a DOS boot disk(floppy I guess), then don't start that OS install from CD. The easiest way to test your theory of whether the hard drive can boot, is to start from the DOS boot disk, then run "SYS C:" to copy boot files to the hard disk. You could do it manually too.. Format it, then copy MSDOS.SYS IO.SYS COMMAND.COM See if the hard drive does/doesn't boot. still blinking cursor? if it works, then the issue was with your OS CD installation/it getting onto the HDD. 

and now it works.. no idea how those other entries got there.. possibly a mix of 'default programs editor' and start.."change the file type associated with a specific extension" and making a .vbsc icon and choosing a program with open with, and assoc. 

Used can mean anything. I have absolutely no idea what you mean. You're not saying much. Any address, MAC or IP, is used to send info. Like if on a street, if house A wanted to send a letter to house B, that's what house B's address is for. 

A command line email client running in the background, just download one email or better, one email header.. if you retrieve even the first email (The oldest), then yahoo messenger email notification thing resets. getmail -u user -pw pswd -s pop.mail.yahoo.co.uk -headersonly -n 1 put it in a bat file, drag that to quick launch, tell it cmd /c blah.bat and run minimized. So when you get an email notification popup, you just click that, and it fairly quietly does what it needs, and quickly, and resets the notification. It may not work when you're logged in, in yahoo's case at least. It doesn't set all mail to read, maybe it would if you got them all, but I am not looking to do that.. i'm just looking to reset the notification. I have done it now so it retrieves the most recent 10 emails so sets them read, naturally also, removing the notification. I did it by calling getmail twice, once to get the total number of messages, and again to get msgs from the point totalmsg minus 10. 

Absolutely no security risk at all to add a program to the path. It's rather like, if you want to run notepad, if it's in the path you just type notepad, if it's not in the path then you type c:\windows\system32\notepad so it is for convenience to have a program in the path If you don't use the fact that its in the path then you may as well not select that feature but no harm either way and in terms of security, the command line is no more or less secure than the GUI. Either can give root/administrative access and neither is necessarily giving root/administrative access. and whether a program is in the path or not, a program's command line parameters/options can be accessed from the GUI(with a shortcut / icon), or from a command prompt/shell. Absolutely no difference in security there.