After a long try I've been able to create a script in vba which can successfully handle webpages with lazy-load. It can reach the bottom of a slow loading webpage if the hardcoded number of the loop is set accurately. I tried with few such pages and found it working flawlessly. The one I'm pasting below is created using site. It can parse the title of different news after going down to a certain level of that page according to the loop I've defined. Now, what I wanna expect to have is do the same thing without using hardcoded delay what I've already used in my script. Thanks in advance for any guidance to the improvement. Here is what I've written: 

I have written a crawler in python with the combination of class and function. Few days back I saw a scraper in a tutorial more or less similar to what I did here. I found it hard the necessity of using class here. However, I decided to create one. My scraper is able to traverse all the next pages and print the collected results errorlesly. If there is any suggestion or input to give this scraper a better look, I'm ready to comply with that. Thanks in advance. Here is what I've written: 

will return . will return . If you want both to return then replace the with in . Marking as is purely optional but it seems to me like a good fit. 

which will avoid creating an intermediary list (small optimization in this case). Perhaps a minor issue but I personally prefer using "index" instead of "i" or "idx" to avoid any ambiguity. "idx" actually has several meanings. I find used with to often be more readable than combined with : 

Technically a "trunk" does not include the branches, etc. so "TrunkWidth" and "Trunk" are kind of confusing names for this. You might consider "LayerWidth" and "Layer". I see very little point to all these classes as they do not serve much purpose. A class with a single method to define its single behavior might as well be a method. If , , , etc. will be used by methods other than then it might make sense to have these as classes. If they are simply to build a string representation then I would drop them in favor of inline calculations (OOP does not mean that "every thing is a small object"; e.g. "height" and "width" may be attributes of objects but are not necessarily objects themselves). This entire collection of classes can be reduced to the following (assuming no other code is using , , etc.): 

I've written some code in vba to scrape names and phone numbers from a webpage that has spread across some pages I don't wish to know of. The main interesting thing with this scraper is that It only needs to know the first page number then it traverse across all the pages and fetch the information I've mentioned above. I tried to make it error-free. Here is what I did: 

I've written a script in VBA which is able to scrape images from a webpage and save it to a customized folder successfully. Firstly, it scrapes the image link then downloads the image and rename it according to it's identity. It takes 2/3 seconds to accomplish the task. I tried to do the whole thing specklessly. Here is the script I tried with: 

I've written a script in python using requests module in combination with selenium along with regex to parse email address (if any exists) from any website. I tried to create it in such a way so that it can traverse javascript enabled sites as well. My crawler is supposed to track any website link (given in it's list storage) then find or etc keywords from that page and parsing the matching link it will go to the target page and using regular expression it will finally parse the email address from that page. It scrapes the email address along with the link address where it parses the email from. I tried with several links and most of the cases it succeeds. I know it's very hard to create a full-fledged one but I tried and it is not despairing at all. Any suggestion to improve this crawler will be vastly appreciated. Here is what I have written: 

Using returns a new object but such isn't necessary in this case. You can use directly on the . You can reduce duplicated code by using classes and/or extension functions. e.g.: 

If however you actually need/want classes for tree components then I recommend making those components (or collections of those components) members of a class (e.g. a has ). 

Personally I prefer "row/column" instead of "y/x". Thinking "y" before "x" is unnatural. You can always define your own methods too which can improve readability. e.g.: 

I recommend removing as "Neutral" is not an Element Type, it is the lack of an element and therefore makes element.type not applicable. With removed you can greatly simplify your solution: 

You can still use a enum if you'd like but this function is very similar to so would seem to suffice. Every enum class has a function implementing (Enum Classes - Kotlin Programming Language). As such, would declare both and which seems confusing to me. I suggest defining superior and inferior check functions instead of but this may not be practical depending on how you are using : 

I had a desire to make a recursive web crawler in vba. As I don't have much knowledge on vba programming, so it took me a while to understand how the pattern might be. Finally, I've created one. The crawler I've created is doing just awesome. It starts from the first page of a torrent site then tracking the site's next page link it moves on while extracting names until all links are exhausted. Any input on this to make it more robust will be a great help. Thanks in advance. Here is what I've written: 

I have written some code in python in combination with selenium to parse all the names from facebook friend list. It was hard to manage the pop up notification and the process of scrolling to the end of that page. However, my scraper can do that successfully. I tried to do the whole thing very carefully. There are always rooms for improvement, though. here is the working code: 

Unfortunately this can sometimes look a bit strange using , etc. but in Kotlin 1.1 you can use bound callable references: 

Using as a function name seems very ambiguous. The method name used in the Java class from LeetCode seems more appropriate: (thereby specifying that the arguments, although not numbers themselves, represent numbers). You can remove the explicit type specification for if you add explicit type arguments to . I personally find this more readable and less verbose: 

If you are going to have classes for computed numbers than I find (like ) much more readable than for , , etc. Naming an instance of as simply "tree" is rather confusing, I recommend using type names (at least the end of them) at the end of instance names (e.g. "stageTreeWidth", "stageWidth", "treeWidth", or simply "width"). Kotlin has a neat function to simplify building strings with a repeated char sequence. e.g.: 

You might want to take a look at Delegates.observable - stdlib - Kotlin Programming Language which you may be able to reuse to improve and reduce your code. 

I've written a script in python to scrape e-mail addresses from different pizza shops located in los-angeles available in yellowpage traversing multiple pages. It is able to go one-layer deep and dig out email addresses. I believe, this crawler has got the ability to parse all the emails from any link no matter how many pages it has spread across. Just needed to adjust the last page number in the crawler. Here is what I've written: 

I've written some code in vba for the purpose of making twofold "POST" requests to get to the destination page and harvest name and address from there. There are two types of structures within which the desired results lie. One type of structure holds name and address in a single "th" storage and the other holds name in one "td" and address in another "td". So, to handle this I had to use error handler to get the most out of it. By using xmlhttp I could not get any result so I used WinHttpRequest in my script to get the result by enabling redirection. My script is running errorlessly at this moment. However, any suggestion to improve my code specially by handling error more efficiently will be highly appreciated. Here is the full working code: 

And you can even pre-compute the required capacity to avoid unnecessary array copying while building the string: 

"args" is more common and descriptive than "a" in a function signature "\n" is system-dependent; I recommend using instead can be used with a instead of first mapping an using a and then calling . e.g.: 

You can use the slightly shorter instead of . You can also move trailing lambda arguments out of parentheses: 

Sometimes in Kotlin you don't have to declare temporary variables so that you can do something with a return value before returning it. e.g.: 

In my opinion, the main factor in preventing you from having a clean primary constructor is indeed the two paths to the super class (via or ) and having a super class define the property is in fact what also prevents you from making this a data class. I recommend making an or with no properties in its constructor. e.g.: 

However, the "problem" specified in LeetCode does not use arrays which are very different from linked lists. If you convert the Java code it provides you would get the following: 

I've written a script in python scrapy to parse "name" and "price" of different products from a website. Firstly, it scrapes the links of different categories from the upper sided bar located in the main page then it tracks down each categories and reach their pages and then parse the links of different sub-categories from there and finally gets to the target page and parse the aforementioned data from there. I tried to do the whole thing slightly differently from the conventional method in which it is necessary to set rules. However, I got it working the way I expected using the logic I applied here. If any improvement is to be made, I'll be very glad to comply with. Here is what I've tried with: "sth.py" aka spider contains: 

I've written some code for the purpose of scraping names and urls from several links found in the left sided bar in a webpage and populate the data in several sheets [also giving each sheet a new name taking a customized portion from url] in a workbook so that things do not get messy and the data can be located separately. I tried to do the whole thing accurately. Here is what I did: 

For determining correctness of your implementation I recommend referring to an existing implementation such as Apache commons-lang or the newer commons-text: 

This also prevents printing a trailing space. You don't need to re-read "dict.txt" as it doesn't change with each word. 

In some languages variable names like are common and expected but in Kotlin (and Java) I find it more common and expected to have variables names avoid abbreviations, use camel casing, etc. I recommend using instead of . You are returning a . This is fine but data classes are so much better and Kotlin makes it so easy to define and use them. I recommend creating your own type to return. e.g.: 

Instead of using you might check to see if the given product is greater than the currently known maximum product and then assign it if it is. This is minor but personally I prefer to avoid unnecessary assignments. I wouldn't worry about trying to do all of this in one pass. Each directional slice has different row/column bounds so I think four separate loops is the clearest/cleanest. You can remove some duplicated code when it comes to calculating the product and updating the maximum. 

I've written a script in VBA which is able to parse image links from a website, download and store them in a local folder and finally set those images beside each link in an excel file. As the script is a bit big, I tried to make it clean so that it can serve the purpose errorlessly. However, it can do successfully what I mentioned above. There are always rooms for improvement, though. Thanks in advance. Here is the full code: 

I've written some code to parse the names and phone numbers from craigslist. It starts from the link in "m_url" then goes one layer deep to parse the name and then again another layer deep to parse the phone number. Note that it goes 2 layer deep only when it sees "show contact button" on that page so that it can unveil the phone number from that link to scrape. It only prints the result when it sees the button on that page. That's because there are around 120 names on that page but it prints only those containing that specific button. Sometimes when I come across such "show contact button" link within a page from where I am supposed to harvest data, I get frightened. That's why I tried to work on it. It works smoothly now. Any improvement on this script will be very helpful.