And you can add on more calculations. In this case, will be evaluated if there is in A17. will be evaluated if A17 has 2. The next one will be evaluated if A17 has 3, etc. 

If has a match, returns false, i.e. 0 and 0*1 gives 0. (You did expect 0 if A4 is in B3:B4). If doesn't have any match, returns true, i.e. 1 and 1*1 gives 1. 

Now in G, we'll get the Tel, in H we'll get the Fax and in I, we'll get the Mobile. In G2, put and drag down: 

And the bottom part of the screen doesn't move up if you insert a value on row 2 and press Enter. What's more, you can manually adjust the position of the separator without having to remove the split, select an appropriate cell and insert the split again. 

If there concatenate of is unique, can be used instead of here since we're dealing with numbers. I assume that the data are in columns A through D and starting at row 2. 

As from 0 mins to just before 41 mins (40 mins), give 10. As from 41 mins to just before 1h11min (70 mins), give 15. You can put something in cell G4 and this will go to cell D6. For example, if you put 20 there, the formula will pick it, and will give any other times in column C above 1h10min that value. 

The thing is that it's relying a lot on which gives the row of the Item Number you are looking for. If I substitute those by XX in the formula, it becomes: You will need to change to the correct reference to match your table, and there are 4 instances. 

This basically means that cell A1 will accept values where the remainder when A1 is divided by 0.5 is 0 (i.e. it is a multiple of 0.5). If a user tries to put an invalid value, a warning will pop up and warn that that value is not accepted. You can customize the message. 

[Dollar, then "1", then space] regex101 demo Try to get one of the latest notepad++ versions if this doesn't work and make sure you checked 'regular expressions' in the Search&Replace dialog box and checked '. match newlines'. 

If you just convert those to time now, Excel interpretes there as hh:mm, which is not your intent. Put a "00:" in front to fool Excel: 

You can insert a column between column A and B, this column will be the new column B. Insert the following formula in cell B2 (I'm assuming that you have column labels in the first row). 

Your current formula counts the rows with , adds then to those with and adds them to those with , which mean there are overlaps and you are likely to get a higher number than the actual number. You could use 2 : 

To do this, insert a new column to the right of the column you have. Let's say that the column you have is column A and the new column is B. Put the formula in cell B2: 

Note that the above doesn't check C2 for blanks, so if both are blanks, you will get 0 in A2. If you want to check both B2 and C2, then... 

should return 77+88 and should return 2. The above formula is case insensitive. A case sensitive one: 

returns the column in which the formula is. Here, since the formula is in cell A1, returns 1. acts the same way, but with the number of rows, and will return 1 as well here. will return in this case which is the letter . will return which is . Concatenating everything will give you E4. When you copy/paste this formula in B1, you'll get: 

You simply need to get the "super-categories" just like a header (occurs only once), but in a column to the left of the individual categories. The value will be in the last column. Here's an example when inserting a simple bar chart: 

Go to the data tab and clock on 'Advanced' under 'Sort & Filter'; In the pop up, put the list range as the first column (header included) and check the 'Unique records only' checkbox. Click OK and that should be it. 

A1 is the cell containing , B1 is the cell containing after was run. Or you can combine both formulas as below: 

Basically, this will count all the values above 0 and add 1. Fill this formula down and you should be good :) Or if you have only and numbers in column C, then you can use the following in cell A2: 

returns the first characters from the beginning of a cell. Here, I have used . Click on the button "Format..." and choose a formatting. I like to use "Fill" and pick yellow, but it's up to you. Click "OK", and "OK" again. That should highlight the cells you are looking for. 

The tilde is the special character in Excel to escape other special characters. Use a tilde to make the tilde you want to match a literal tilde (e.g. in excel find matches any number of characters, but will match a literal ). The data I used it on is: 

You can make a named range and put it there instead, but this will become an array formula which will only work with Ctrl+Shift+Enter: 

The formula: It takes 3 to 5 parameters: 1. The interest rate for the period. Since we're having 11% for 1 year, leave it as such. If the payment was on a monthly basis, you could change it to . Of course, the number of periods will change. I would advise only changing the interest rate to a monthly interest rate and re-calculate a more appropriate loan period (for monthly installment, change 11% to and change the period to ) 2. The number of period until the loan is fully repaid. This is 20 in the example. If you have monthly payments, you will need to change this to ``20*12` and change the interest rate accordingly as mentioned above. It won't anymore be strictly 'years' then, but periods until full repayment of loan. 3. The present value of the loan. This is the loan you took. Shouldn't be difficult. Now in the spreadsheet, I made this value dynamic so that it changes each time the net balance changes, hence can accommodate a change in payment and still recalculate the subsequent interests and payments. 4. Fair value of loan (optional, defaults to ). Put a value there if the loan at the end has a fair value. Usually, you pay the totality of the loan by the end of the periods, so it'll be zero, but if for example, after 2 years, the loan value has to be $100,000, put here. 5. Type of loan (optional, defaults to ). There are two types of loans the formula recognises: 

I don't have any tangible evidence, but I just tried it on my excel (2007 though) on all the rows possible 1,048,576 rows) and the formula tells me there is not enough resources to carry out the operations (after asking me if I really wanted to continue as I wouldn't be able to undo the operations) while your 1st method does it in about 14 seconds. So, I believe you are right on the fact that the 1st method has less overheads. The advantage perhaps of over the first method is that if you have a problematic value in a cell (such as a text value), won't throw an error and continue counting merrily (the text is treated as 0) whilst the first method will immediately throw and stop calculating properly in any other following cells in the column. 

If it's the first column, remove 0 (1) from the total units (2) and divide by total columns (3) before rounding. Else, take what's left (2) [total minus the sum from the fist column] and divide by the remaining number of columns (3). 

Another option I think you might use is put the score together with the descriptions, e.g., make the descriptions like this: 

That was a strange behaviour I encountered. Formulae within merged cells in excel which are also partially visible do not update even if automatic update of formula is enabled or F9 is pressed (recalculate). But I'm not even sure how to guarantee it, it doesn't quite make sense to me. Example steps to reproduce: 

Well, you weren't very clear in your comment, so I guess it'll be simpler if I give something and you adjust it for your needs. I'm assuming that you have the formula in sheet and cell . 

I'm not sure exactly how you are getting the value of C1, but you should be able to get the source of the page. To do this, press Ctrl+U. This should give you a page written in html. Look for line 128 (or where the table starts, there should be the data you need there and it starts with . Copy everything from to which is on the same line, near to the end. Paste this into notepad. Click Ctrl+H and use Find what: Replace with: " " (one whitespace) and hit replace all. Copy everything and paste in excel. You can remove the formatting after that to even out the cell dimensions. Note that hyperlinks will stay in the data. EDIT: To separate the email, tel, mobile and fax will be a little longer, but not that long. To get the email, use this formula in the next cell in E2: 

Hmm, it'll be easiest I think if you have some sort of hidden column just after the column containing the descriptions and a reference table somewhere for the scores. E.g. Cell A2 contains 'Agree'. Cell range Z1:AA5 contains the reference table: 

I believe you will need a helper column, in my example, the helper column is in column D. Put the following formula in cell D2 and drag down: 

will return the cell which is found 1 row below and 1 column after the cell , meaning cell . Similarly, will give the cell . There are actually more options you can have in , namely the height and the width of the resulting range. 

Otherwise, if that's not possible, you can use an array function and 5 nested IFs, 1 for each description: 

Select the cell containing the formula. Go to the Tab "Formulas" and look for "Evaluate formula" and click it: 

You can use a pivot table to help you. Go to > and drag the headers to "Row Lables" and "Values", and to "Row Labels" like so: 

You cannot 'undo' creating a worksheet in Excel. You will have to delete it. If you don't want to use your mouse, you can use the shortcut Alt+E then L (Alt+E leads to 'Edit' and L to delete) to delete the current worksheet, which will be the one you just inserted if you accidentally did so. 

In Notepad++, you can use its Find & Replace feature to remove everything before the third segment. Simply use this find, with the Regular Expressions radio button on: 

Scroll the formula to the bottom of your table and copy/paste the values in place. Insert a filter, filter on FALSE in column B and delete all the rows with FALSE You can sort to get rid of the blank rows (or add a column containing incrementing count before sorting to get the original order). 

Those are really long if you ask me! But if I understand what you're trying to do... It will be either this: 

Okay, since there's more than 1 country per region, you'll need a rather lengthy formula. I'm suggesting using both and . 

The first is calculating the sum for Canada only, and the second for US only. Adding the two gives the sum for the region. retrieves the country name from the region name, you'll notice the different is in the , where the first is and the second is (just before false). You can of course replace by to output the same results. 

The 'simple' way is to use capture groups for each group of numbers. For a fixed format, that works well. Find: 

That one could be a little more difficult to understand, but the equalities should be rather straightforward. 

And drag down (or right) as far as you need. I noticed that you are using the same in both sheets, so that you can use to match the number of columns you need. 

Remove the formulas in A.xls by copy/pasting values. This will prevent any updates in A.xls from changes in B.xls and any other formulas in the sheet. This is a downside in itself though. Make sure any changes to B.xls does not involve sheet deletion, renaming or row/column deletion in those that supply the formulas in A.xls. 

You are not capturing anything with that regex, just simply matching. In that case, you would want to put the match back, so you can use or for that: Replace with: 

You can use this formula for the numbering, if that's what you're looking for, assuming that the first : is in cell : 

You need to convert the text back to a number. You can do that by multiplying by 1 or adding 0 (or subtracting 0, or dividing by 1, well any arithmetic operation that doesn't change the final value): 

Set up the following (the formula is and I added the pipes in K4 and R4 only to know what range I'm counting): 

takes the index in A2 and looks it into column A of Sheet2. When a match is found, it will return the contents of the corresponding index from column B, the second column in the selected table array (the table array is A:B). indicates an exact match ( indicates approximate match). Then you simply have to fill this formula down till the end of Table1. 

I used 1000 to grab everything after the space, but it's an arbitrary value. Or if you want to use a single formula, you could do something like: 

You mentioned B5:B36 contains the dates for a particular month, so if B5 contains 01/09/2013 (read 1st September 2013), will give you . The formula then counts the number of times appears in column (You can change to the range you need, e.g. , but since you mentioned you can have as much as 150 people, I opted to check the whole column). If cells instead contains numbers (1, 2, 3, etc) as opposed to dates, then use 

Again, you need to use Ctrl+Shift+Enter for it to work properly. For the next column (the ones that should be installed), you simply change the order of the 1's and 0's: 

Using the Find/Replace dialog will convert the values to numeric values if possible, and that means that it will also try to convert to dates, since dates are numeric values, only differently formatted. And it seems that your Excel is interpreting the as a date delimiter. A workaround for keeping the value as text would be to use , but that means that you will have to use a column to do this, then copy paste the results as values.