In Thunderbird you can archive a message if you hit a. For example, in the Mail app on macOS there is an option to undo the last action including archiving. Is it possible to do the same in Thunderbird? Pressing Control-z does not work. 

Background When I hit Delete (or Ctrl+d) in order to delete a selected email, the program selects the previous email (an older one). Question Is it possible to modify this behaviour so I can delete an email and move to the newer one? Demonstation 

Here are the videos showing how it feels like to use keyboard and mouse then. It takes about 5 seconds before the keyboard and trackpad disablement kick in. 

The problem is that yellow and gray are hardly visible on my remote monitor. For example when I open StackOverflow I cannot see the yellow background of quote blocks and the gray background of code blocks. They just blend with the white background. How can I fix the way colors are displayed on the second monitor? Details 

I'm reading the selected message. After I'm done with it I would like to delete it and move to the one below (the next one, chronologically speaking). 

Is there a way to change the quote level in Thunderbird without any special add-ons? Ideally, I'd like a shortcut to change quote leves from 

Problem I'm using Lenovo Yoga 3 14 and when I open it at a certain angle (between 135 and 180 degrees) its keyboard and mouse becomes unresponsive / freezes. It is not a total freeze however - they unfreeze from time to time or repeat the last action hundred times. How can I disable this feature which keeps disabling my input devices? 

In Thunderbird 45.8.0 the Config Editor (also known as about:config) can be open via Edit → Preferences → Advanced → Config Editor... The option is still called and is set to by default. 

I am doing a presentation using Marp. It automatically adds syntax coloring to blocks of code. For example this would be colored as Ruby: 

Embedded Controller I pressed the power button for 8 seconds in order to reset the EC but it didn't help. I've not tried yet to discharge the battery completely to reset the EC. References: 

I'm trying to modify the thread pane (also known as the message list) in Thunderbird so that every item there has two rows (the goal is to make more space for long subjects). Here's the default Thunderbird 45.8.0 style: 

In fact, there is a white bar at the bottom of the screen but it disappears when I move to another page. There is no scrollbar in full-screen mode after pressing Command-2 as the whole page fits the screen so it looks like a bug to me. I am on macOS Sierra 10.12.1. 

It can be achieved in two steps. Remember to close Claws Mail before editing any files in . Change the sort order inside existing folders Replace with in . Change the default sort order for new folders Replace with in . 

This solution is more robust than the one proposed by abieler because matches only the detached sessions (the solution by abieler would skip a detached session called attached). 

Tracking it down with , and I've tried to track down the signal causing the machine to disable the touchpad and the keyboard using and others but it didn't show anything. The X server thinks that those input devices are fine and enabled all the time. This it not surprising as the freeze occurs when the X server is not running. 

in order to fix colors. It didn't work but I decided to see other options I can change with . On Ubuntu 17.04 returns: 

I use a tiling window manager called dwm. Here's how an Xpdf window looks like when viewed as a wide main window in the master area: 

Everything is back to normal when I open the laptop past 180 degrees (which is quite stupid as this is when I actually enter either tent or tablet mode). 

Finally, I've found a post called Problem after upgrading... how to disable USB?. I decided to append 

Claws Mail 3.13.1 introduced a hidden preference called , designed to let a user control the message selection when deleting emails. So in order to solve my problem I had to change to in . There is a tool called Clawsker, which is a GUI to modify hidden preferences. 

I've found out that it is related to scrollbars. To hide it you have to go to System Preferences > General > Show scroll bars: and switch it to When scrolling. I wonder if there is a way to hide it without modifying the system preferences. If so then I'll be happy to accept the other answer. 

I'm trying to install cmusfm to be able to scrobble tracks in cmus. I am on OS X 11 and when I run the command from the installation guide for cmusfm I get the following output: 

You have to start the D-Bus service. Put into /etc/rc.conf. If it does not help then run to generate the missing . When it comes to ports, however: you have to download the ports tree first. It shouldn't be required to build XFCE from ports to solve the problem, though. PS This issue might go away entirely in the future when this revision is merged into FreeBSD 

I am trying to configure xpdf(1) so that it doesn't show the outline pane by default. I've managed to set up a keybinding in my to toggle the visibility of the outline pane with this command: 

Why did it work? Why did the 5. step solve the problem? What is so special about disabling ATA which removed the error? My optical disk drive is Samsung CD-RW / DVD ts-l462d if it helps. I couldn't find whether this drive is supported by FreeBSD 10.2. 

Instead of what we see in the second picture, I'd like the Claws Mail to select the next message after hitting Delete. 

I would like to disable the transition animation when I hit F11 to go full screen on Firefox. The animation slowly pulls up all the tabs and bars off the screen instead of immediately hiding everything. 

Disable using Lenovo pre-installed software I guess that this is a Lenovo feature which ought to disable keyboard and touchpad when a user switches to tablet mode. Maybe on Windows this features is handled working fine (the last time I tried it wasn't really) or at least there is a way to disable it with some Lenovo pre-installed software. I have not found anything for Linux though. 

I wanted to install FreeBSD 10.2 on an old laptop (Hasee Q540s) using the FreeBSD 10.2 RELEASE i386 DVD1 image. I've managed to boot the installer and install FreeBSD after choosing Safe Mode in the welcome screen. With FreeBSD installed on my hard disk I decided to boot try to boot it normally. I failed because FreeBSD freezed during booting after showing me this message: 

I cannot enter BIOS when the laptops turns on so that I can boot Ubuntu from a USB pendrive. I've tried to press Enter as suggested on some webpages as well as randomly press function keys just after the machine turns on. I cannot find anything online and F1 and F12 doesn't seem to work (source). I don't have UEFI Firmware Settings menu available. 

I would like to center a zoomed page in Xpdf. It could be with a shortcut, but I'll be happy with an automated solution as well. Scenario Here's a description of what I am struggling with: 

The only solution I was able to come up with is to modify the configuration header of st and change from default to . It gets rid of the border on the right. It doesn't hide the border on the bottom however. In fact, it might not be possible in the vanilla version of because its maximal window width and height is determined by the number of row and columns of characters it is physically possible to fit on the screen. 

which suggests that it is either not that much OS-specific or both Ubuntu and FreeBSD have got some really bad drivers inside their kernels. It is worth noting however that this issue happens much less often on FreeBSD. In fact, I can have my laptop as wide open as I want and the freeze happens only from time to time (once a week or so). In contrast to Ubuntu where it happens all the time even if the screen is only open at about 100 degrees. 

I would like to hide everything except the webpage content in Google Chrome. This means I want to hide tabs, omnibar, bookmarks bar and so on. I've found out that the Presentation Mode is quite nice for this. You just hit Shift⇧+Command ⌘+f and you can enjoy the clutter free web surfing. I can't figure out how to use the Presentation Mode without going fullscreen? Is it even possible? My aim is to get rid of all the toolbars in Google Chrome. I would like to know if there is any other way to do it in case Presentation Mode doesn't work in windowed mode. I use OS X. However I don't think my problem is platform specific. 

As you can see, the page is centered. When I move the Xpdf window to the stacking area, its width shrinks and the page is now zoomed at its left border: 

I've leaned that it is possible to modify Thunderbird's UI with the userChrome.css file. Unfortunately, it looks like although it is only capable to changing colors, fonts and so on, it cannot modify the layout the way I want. Is that true? If there is a way, what should I do? I'm tagging this question with a Firefox tag as the solution probably requires some smart modifications of userChrome.css, the format of which is used by Firefox as well.