Table 2 has 200 million rows. Though the number of insert records was only 5000 but the operation lasted for 30 mins. I observed replication lag during the insert operation. I have load infile disabled due to security concerns. Hence I can't insert using that as well. I went this article from Percona which says that this can be resolved if txn isolation is used as ROW and versions above 5.1 that this is resolved. 

Why is it not possible to rebuild corrupt LOB indexes? So if my LOB index is corrupted, how to recover it? 

I have a Percona MySQL Master-Master setup (5.6) with second master as passive master(read-only). Slave: 

I have a requirement from one of my teams which is database copy (cloning) from production to my test server on daily basis at a particular time. I know this is a very simple process which every DBA would perform. Should I use RMAN duplicate for cloning? Should I use Goldengate? Is there any way I can schedule the same without manual intervention? Server - RHEL Database - Oracle 12c/11g 

I've come across many kinds of data masking techniques used in Oracle database.. some are licensed some are included in enterprise edition itself.. leaving the licenses thing behind as it is restricted to ask about it here.. I would like to know what is the difference between Transparent Data Encryption Virtual Private Database Oracle Label Security Data Masking pack Oracle Vault Ultimately each one of the above does the same job - mask the data right? What are the differences between them?? If data masking pretty much only overwrites the data which I actually need to mask, won't a simple SQL update statement do that trick on a particular table? Why buy a tool for that? Thanks! 

Added info:: I will be moving from OEL 5 to 6 or above. Downtime I will get over an weekend. No change in character set or licensing features. Database size is approx 50 GB. This is only development instance and not prod. Should I install 12c database and then import everything from 11g to 12c database or run DBUA? Best.! 

I have set a Master-master replication with the second Master running as read-only. This master-master setup is on the same location. Now I will have to setup an DR for this production at a different location. What are the solutions I have? Is it possible to set another master-master setup at DR site where in the Master in DR acts as the slave of the active master of DC? Will that work? Any other inputs for DR solution would be appreciated. Thanks!! 

Is it possible to separate out data files and log files of MySQL from one drive to another? For eg: Data (actual database data and system tablespace ibdata) in one partition, say /data and log files (ibdata0 and ibdata1 only) in one partition, say /redo? Is it possible? I know the binary logs can be moved to a different partition but I have the doubt for above scenario. I'm using Percona Server 5.6 on linux. Edit: Just checked out, If I set innodb_log_group_home_dir to a different location, would it work? 

I'm setting up a master-master replication where in the second master is only read only there by reducing the issues of conflicts. My doubt is that to reduce the downtime when my master goes down I would be pointing my application to the second master (which is in read-only) and continue the work. Is it possible to have a DNS CNAME record pointing to one of your master. In case of failover, just update the DNS CNAME to other working master while you fix the broken one... once you fix and bring up the broken master, it will catch up with the transactions. If yes, how should I do it? 

Oracle Recommended Patches -- Oracle Database (Doc ID 756671.1) says the following 4 patches are recommended to be applied to 11.2.0.4 database. Note:21744343.8 Combo of 11.2.0.4.5 OJVM PSU and 11.2.0.4.8 DB PSU (Oct 2015) Note:21555791.8 Oracle JavaVM Component 11.2.0.4.5 Database PSU (Oct 2015) (OJVM PSU) Note:21352635.8 11.2.0.4.8 (Oct 2015) Database Patch Set Update (DB PSU) Note:19852360.8 Oracle JavaVM Component 11.2.0.4.1 Database PSU - Generic JDBC Patch (Oct 2014) I have a newly installed 11.2.0.4 database with absolutely no patches applied on it. Now should I go ahead and apply all the above mentioned recommended patches on the database? or should I apply any previously released patches before applying these? If yes, is there an order in which the above patches is to be applied? Also, I will be applying the above patches through OEM12c, is there anything I should take care in doing the same? 

The header of disks are in PROVISIONED status. What is the issue here? Can't I create new diskgroup with same name? How to clear the disk header? 

The last_number column in all_sequences was different in both the databases (11g and 12c) ideally it should be the same. What I did was I incremented the sequnce number of 12c database higher than the sequence number as that of 11g database. And the error did not show up. All is well.! 

As a DBA, what is the best way to read the audit records on daily basis? Say, i'm the administrator and I would like to view the audit records made by the DBAs. I have enabled audit sys operatiosn to TRUE and and it creates records for the same but is there any easy readable format to clearly list out the changes made by the DBAs? 

I have MySQL 5.5 running in RHEL. I have checked for my.cnf file in my filesystem and its available in two destinations. One in the user's home directory and the other is in /data/etc_ORIG directory. It was not seen in /etc or /etc/mysql folder. Is there any issue with the config file present in a different path? And how do I check which config is being used by MySQL? 

The reason for the above mentioned movement of backup pieces is necessary for my OS team for some activity at their end. My question is that, in this scenario, will my control file lose the information of older backups? Do I need to do catalog start with the /orcl_bkup/old_bkup and catalog the backup location to delete the obsolete backups? 

How to start a non-rac single instance with ASM file system. As in the case of RAC after reboot of server, the ASM and CRS resources startup automatically.. but with non-RAC but with ASM storage, what is the right way to start the database? Is there anything specific that should be given attention to start the database? Start the ASM instance and mount all the diskgroups and then start the database? Correct me/add if i'm wrong. Server- RHEL Database - 12c 

I have a MS-SQL 2014 SP1 - two node AlwaysOn AG (One Primary and an read-only secondary) with about 10 databases sizing 20-30GB in total. I have some queries regarding scheduling index rebuild and stats gathering. I have planned to schedule it on weekly basis through maintenance plans. Usually on sunday nights where there will be no load at all on the primary. Should I run the job in primary or in replica? If I run it only on secondary then what benefits do I get? or vice versa? (Meaning should I run on both the nodes) Is corruption likely to happen if I use SP1 and index rebuild via maintenance plans? As mentioned here 

In what way I can make my slave to be in sync with Master in such conditions? Why does the slave lag here? 

I want to deploy tools to monitor my Production Percona servers (5.6 on Linux). I never used Nagios or any tool before. I did go through this great link but I wanted to clarify few things before deploying them: 

I'm thinking of configuring Application Continuity for my 2 node RAC (12c) database where my application is running on Weblogic server. Before I proceed with the setup of AC, I need to clarify/confirm few things regarding AC: 

Is it okay to have two oracle clients (both 11g and 12c) in the same db server? What are the potential issues I could face? The reason im doing this is to connect the app server where I'm deploying the clients to two databases each running on 11g and another on 12c. 

The above command will work if I need to delete archives from Primary. What can be done on standby? Im not in a situation to add more storage at the moment. 

I have dumped one of my databases of size 5-6GB. I'm trying to restore to another instance but the same is getting failed after sometime with the following error: 

Is it mandatory to use FCF with AC? If yes why? If no, I should be fine I guess. Are there any specific changes I should make in Weblogic server if I'm using AC? My Weblogic server could be a cluster/standalone and i'm using normal data source only. 

I have an Oracle 12c database running in OEL 6.. yesterday due to some OS related issues, my Oracle home software mount-point got erased completely. The only thing that is left is the pfile and data files. I have got that. I do not have backups as well. What are the options I have got? If I just install the New Oracle home and start with the pfile and with the data files, will I be able to start the database as it is? 

I'm using MySQL 5.6 with about 5 databases on linux. I have scheduled daily full backups using mysqldump. All databases use InnoDB engine. What I observe is that the backup size seems to vary everyday. This would make sense if the backup size keeps increasing but what is happening is randomly the backup size goes down. I have confirmed with application teams that do not purge or delete data and I understand mysqldump is a logical representation of the data but how can backup size decrease randomly when there is no delete/truncate of data? 

Telnet is working from the local machine to the target (scan is in dns) nslookup from local machine is also working. It is resolving the IPs. Checked with it is listening and port is open. Tried connecting using Basic connection and as well as TNSNAMES.ora using instant client in my Windows machine. I get this error. While trying sqlplus from my local machine, it gives me 

I have a master with percona server (5.6.25) running in RHEL host and a slave of the same version. I'm facing some corruption issues in replication slave and I'm thinking of rebuilding the slave from scratch. Just a query, can I have the slave of version 5.6.31 instead of the original master version? What could be the issues that could occur? 

and the service in running in both the nodes. For server side TAF, Should I edit my tnsnames.ora (above mentioned) on my database server as given below? 

Check this out: [$URL$ [$URL$ Probably you will get answers for such questions quickly if you google them. 

I have two schemas: A and B. A has one table with the name 'TEST'. B has created a view 'BASE' which does select on table 'TEST'. Now I create another user C to which I grant, select on the view 'BASE'. When the user C runs the following statement, he gets insufficient privileges error: 

What is the significance of DB CPU paramater in Automatic Workload Repository? Say in my case it's always above 100. Does it have benchmark metric as such to say that so and so number is the right value? How does it work? 

I have a requirement to fetch all the schema available in 100+ Oracle instances running in RHEL environment. All the schema information such as username, roles assigned and is to be dumped in one place from where it will be used for other purposes. Is it feasible? I can provide more info if this question is sounding vague. Are there any utilities to perform this? 

I gather that there isn't enough shared pool resources for the ASM instance to create a new diskgroup. I'm not in a situation to restart ASM instance to increase the shared pool. My question is if I decide to drop some unused diskgroups will I get to create new diskgroups? Or is it mandatory to increase the shared pool? 

I have 11.2.0.3 database. I need to upgrade to a higher version either 11.2.0.4 or 12.1.0.2. Which one I should upgrade it to? Im not going to upgrade on the same server. I will have to do it in a new server. So how can I proceed with the upgrade? Export/import? DBCA? Manual upgrade? What is the procedure to do this? Same as above question except that this is another database but 10g. Which version I should upgrade it to and how to? 

I have a two node RAC setup where my scan ips are registered in DNS and my public Ips are also registered in the dns. Now while connecting from my windows machine through oracle client in sql developer im getting connection time out error and network adapter error. My question is that should I register my VIP also in dns and will that resolve this issue? 

I have 6, two node RAC databases running in the two physical servers. While I try to create new diskgroup, I get the following error: 

I had my innodb file format changed from antelope to barracuda recently. Is it safe to have both antelope and barracuda at the same time? I have my setup running properly now. What issues I would face? Or should I change it back to antelope. 

I'm running an two node RAC database with ASM having two DGs one for data and one for redo. I have only one copy of redo and I have the need to have another copy of redo logs. 1. How to go ahead with adding mirror copies of redo? 2. Will it demand downtime? 3. Can I add the copies which I'm going to create in the data DG? 4. I also need to create a copy for the control file. How can I do that as well? Thanks, Tesla. 

I'm about to create a RMAN catalog database for my setup, what are the general precautions or major pre-requisites as in DB parameters, compatibility,etc that I should take care while creating the catalog database? 

I have been asked to create a read only user in a Oracle database 12c. The read only user must have read only grants only to the objects of select schemas, which I created and handed over. But now the request from the team is that the newly created read only user must have read only grants to even to all those new objects created by those select schemas. How is this possible? Inputs please! 

I have a table 'class' owned by the schema 'test' and I need to audit all operations on the particular table. -- will this be sufficient to do the trick? Should I enable any other kind of Fine grained auditing to capture all the details. Oracle12c/RHEL - I have set audit trail to DB. And sys operations to true. Inputs needed here 

Also, There isn't sqlnet.ora configured. Ideally, it should show which parameter file it uses and also it should be able to tnsping with hosts as well right? What could be the issue? Thanks! 

The above log entries is getting updated as and when instance is restarted.. the instance continues to restart every 4-5 seconds. Help required here.! 

I have a primary database with a standby in data guard configuration running in a RHEL host. Thing is the storage assigned to this DR is very less, meaning the archive logs file system gets full in no-time. Now is it possible to automate deletion of archives from standby database once archives are applied to the standby?? 

I have 10 databases so should I take daily backup as one dump containing all the databases, if yes when restoring will I be able to restore each database from the full dump which has all the databases? Or taking one db at a time is the good way to go? Should I take backup from active master or read-only master? If read-only master is the case, then what if before the replication had broken and the backup has been taken from read-only - it will not have the updated data until the replication is active again right? So backing up from active master is fine? How to go about backing binary logs since im not aware of it much.? What is the process to take binary log backup.? 

I have tried to reconfiguring by taking a new full backup of primary as well. Getting the same error still. How can this be resolved? I can give more info if needed. 

Requirement is that I need to clean up my database in which my application has extensively tested on, and now I will have to clean up the data and have a database which will be ready to go live. By clean up, I mean the metadata of the tables, users will stay but their data will have to cleaned. What is the fastest and the best method to go about with? Truncate? Any help would be appreciated. 

I have two MySQL instances (Percona server 5.6.31) in Master-Slave replication setup. I have set the below configuration: 

In the link mentioned here --> $URL$ it says there is increased virtual memory footprint when running my applications in conjunction with Instant Client.! Why is that so? If that is the case I would rather install the native Oracle client which takes time to install but still end of the day performance matters right? Why should I prefer instant client when there are memory leaks with it?