I suspect caching at the load-balancer. Try adding anti-caching headers in the response and see if the problem persists. This may increase your server load alot. 

I figured out it's best not to use a socks proxy for this, but instead forward all ports necessary on a localhost IP. To evade any existing services, I use a different IP than 127.0.0.1. Assuming you chose 127.0.0.2, and your server behind the proxy is 192.168.1.1, this is the ssh command to use: 

My understanding of SCSI timeouts is that any read, write, flush and other commands have a limited time to complete. If exceeded, the command is aborted and an error is reported to the upper layer. While waiting for the command to complete, any application depending on the I/O will stall. My next layer would be mdraid, the Linux software RAID. From what I read, mdraid has no timeouts on its own but relies on the lower layer to timeout commands. The default SCSI timeout value is 90 seconds for Kernel 3.2 (Debian). A hard disk encountering a read error will try hard to correct the error within a time frame defined by firmware. That timeout is set high for desktop drives (typically stand-alone, so correction has high priority) and low for server drives (typically RAID, so report bad sector soon, let other drive answer). Sometimes it can be adjusted via smartctl (SCTERC, TLER, etc.). So I guess if an HDD is set to a high ERC timeout, kernel will wait for 90 seconds by default before aborting the request. Only then will mdraid redirect the application's request to another disk. 90 seconds is a loooong time for a webpage to load. Is it correct to assume the default SCSI timeout is meant for desktop purposes or non-hdd SCSI equipment (tape drive, tape library come to mind), and safe to tune down to, say, 7 seconds for RAID usage? 

I have a 45-disk array of Seagate Barracuda 3 TB ST3000DM001 (yes these are desktop drives I'm aware of that) in a Supermicro sc847 JBOD, connected via LSI 9285. I have found a solution for the problem description below by reducing speed via 

Unfortunately it does make sense, but I don't see how the card has much to do with it. The 5V / 12V line is provided by the power supply, and the drives might be drawing on 5V, which may be underrated or non-existant at all. So the drives won't spin up when the card tells them to. If you are very lucky, you only need to enable staggered spin-up in the card BIOS to lower the peak power consumption (you wrote it sometimes does boot). If that works, perform a random write load test before doing anything productive. I looked up your power supply, it's 560W which is a really low total (2U storage chassis have 900W or 1400W). I'm using a dozen Seagate Momentus 750GB in a 2U storage chassis with 900W and Adaptec 5445Z. Slightly different story, but the Momentus series is also "notebook class", so Seagate disabled the activity LED (now THAT's gonna stop me). The drives work very well (good overall IOPS). Can't tell anything about long-term, though. I planned to go for WD Scorpio next time, but now I'm going to reconsider this idea. Seems the manufacturers really don't want us to do this. 

Server not found means DNS resolution failed. Check your DNS. Do you have both www.domain.tld and domain.tld setup? Do the IPs appear in access.log? 

KVM for production is OK. Having a bunch of Windows and Linux VMs, including Remote Desktops, Databases (MS and MySQL), Router, Firewall, even Backups (guest to guest) and everything is running fine. What I like about KVM is the ability to scale management layers. I actually prefer managing the lot I have without libvirt, adjusting (and learning about) every single parameter kvm/qemu accepts. Others use the libvirt based tools and if you need full scale cloud management, there's Open Stack and friends. There are some settings to stay away from, though. Use the default cache=writethrough, do not enable native async, and stay away from qcow, qed or whatever file formats. Give your machines LVM volumes. 

what about using /etc/security/limits.conf to limit the amount of cpu for the user. Or with: ulimit -m <size in megabytes> in the shell, and then executing the process. 

On the ntfs you can grant write permissions, and deny delete folders, delete files. You can also set this for the folder, folder and files, subfolders and files. Is this what you mean? 

Did you see that the article of MS is only for W7 and 2008R2. "Applies To: Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2" "The following procedure assumes that you are using the version of the Group Policy Management Console (GPMC) that is included with Windows Server 2008 R2. To install GPMC on Windows Server 2008 R2, use the Add Features Wizard in Server Manager. If you are using a different version of GPMC, the steps might vary slightly." In $URL$ "The 2008 GPMC will not have all of the same settings that 2008 R2 / Windows 7 has. If you have moved up to R2 / Windows 7, the Group Policy team strongly recommends only managing GPO's from the R2 / Windows 7 version of the GPMC. Remember, you only need one Windows 7 client to get the newer GPMC!" you have part of the answer: could you install de gpmc in a Windows 7 and then edit the policy again? 

The AD is distributed and multimaster database, in general terms you can query any of the Domain Controllers about a user and get the same answer in any of the DC (nodes). In AD you can configure the replication of data changes between servers, so if a user change some attribute in Australia, and you query for some data against the server in NY maybe you will get different answers. The domain administrator can tell you about time replication in the domain. Once the replication takes place, you have the same information in any of the DC. Usually replication times are about minutes, but in some cases it is only set to 1 or 2 times per day. I hope this answer your question. 

Sorry if I'm wrong, I'm not an IIS expert, but I think you can ask for a certificate with aliases. If you want an example you can see the certificate for upcnet.upc.edu. In the "Certificate Subject Alt Name" you can see: Not Critical DNS Name: sylar.upc.es DNS Name: ca1.upc.edu DNS Name: ca2.upc.edu DNS Name: camins.upc.edu DNS Name: catedraeveris.upc.edu DNS Name: catedratelstar.upc.edu DNS Name: ceib.upc.edu DNS Name: cemad.upc.edu DNS Name: cmem.upc.edu DNS Name: congresoeben2011.upc.edu DNS Name: cuv.upc.edu DNS Name: dcen.upc.edu DNS Name: deab.upc.edu DNS Name: dehma.upc.edu DNS Name: doe.upc.edu DNS Name: ec.upc.edu DNS Name: eel.upc.edu DNS Name: ega1.upc.edu DNS Name: ege.upc.edu DNS Name: entel.upc.edu DNS Name: eq.upc.edu DNS Name: esab.upc.edu DNS Name: etcg.upc.edu DNS Name: etsav.upc.edu DNS Name: euetib.upc.edu DNS Name: fa.upc.edu DNS Name: fme.upc.edu DNS Name: gaa.upc.edu DNS Name: gcm.upc.edu DNS Name: genbloc.upc.edu DNS Name: genweb.upc.edu DNS Name: guni.upc.edu DNS Name: ice.upc.edu DNS Name: iemae.upc.edu DNS Name: intranet.claustre.upc.edu DNS Name: intranet.eel.upc.edu DNS Name: intranet.esab.upc.edu DNS Name: intranet.esaiict.upc.edu DNS Name: intranet.etseiat.upc.edu DNS Name: intranet.etseib.upc.edu DNS Name: intranet.ma1.upc.edu DNS Name: ioc.upc.edu DNS Name: ioc.upc.es DNS Name: kemlg.upc.edu DNS Name: labedi.upc.edu DNS Name: lerma.upc.edu DNS Name: ma2.upc.edu DNS Name: ma2.upc.es DNS Name: ma4.upc.edu DNS Name: macrom.upc.edu DNS Name: mpi.upc.edu DNS Name: pa.upc.edu DNS Name: plone.upc.edu DNS Name: psep.upc.edu DNS Name: recerca.upc.edu DNS Name: rmee.upc.edu DNS Name: upcnet.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ca1.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ca2.upc.edu DNS Name: www.camins.upc.edu DNS Name: www.catedraeveris.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ceib.upc.edu DNS Name: www.cemad.upc.edu DNS Name: www.cmem.upc.edu DNS Name: www.cuv.upc.edu DNS Name: www.dcen.upc.edu DNS Name: www.deab.upc.edu DNS Name: www.dehma.upc.edu DNS Name: www.doe.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ec.upc.edu DNS Name: www.eel.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ege.upc.edu DNS Name: www.entel.upc.edu DNS Name: www.eq.upc.edu DNS Name: www.esab.upc.edu DNS Name: www.etcg.upc.edu DNS Name: www.etsav.upc.edu DNS Name: www.euetib.upc.edu DNS Name: www.fa.upc.edu DNS Name: www.fme.upc.edu DNS Name: www.gaa.upc.edu DNS Name: www.gcm.upc.edu DNS Name: www.guni.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ice.upc.edu DNS Name: www.iemae.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ioc.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ioc.upc.es DNS Name: www.kemlg.upc.edu DNS Name: www.labedi.upc.edu DNS Name: www.lerma.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ma2.upc.edu DNS Name: www.ma2.upc.es DNS Name: www.ma4.upc.edu DNS Name: www.macrom.upc.edu DNS Name: www.mpi.upc.edu DNS Name: www.pa.upc.edu DNS Name: www.rmee.upc.edu DNS Name: xsf.upc.edu DNS Name: xsf.upc.es 

Configure Jenkins to run on Port 8078, unencrypted, but on the localhost IP 127.0.0.1. No firewall needed, as no one from outside can connect that IP. Only if Jenkins cannot be configured to bind to 127.0.0.1, you need a firewall. Create a special user account with a custom shell that acts as a telnet client to 127.0.0.1:8078. You can do so with a very simple bash script. Authorize all public keys to use that account. Connect to SSH at port 22 as usual with the special user. The connection will open the special telnet shell. 

Using link-local addressing seems to be the only valid option. What most suggestions here ignore is the fact that the IPv6 prefix declares scope, and I would not want my presumably private addressing to be in global scope. So for Linux: 

What was the 'rm' doing, anyways? Possibly cleared some cache which scripts missed and thus started rebuilding? Was some search engine unfortunately spidering at that same time? Maybe a cache-miss storm? 

If you're willing to step down to IP based user identification, you can expect openvpn to reassign the same VPN-IP for a user's lifetime. See assigned IPs in ipp.txt (/etc/openvpn/servers/VPN/logs, path may vary). Then, check if traffic passes through linux kernel. It might stay within the OpenVPN daemon, not sure about that. tcpdump and see what happens. If it passes through the linux kernel, normal IP accounting would work well (MRTG et al). If it does stay in the daemon, openvpn-status.log contains the external IPs of the currently connected users. Correlating that with MRTG data may be a tough exercise, though. So check if there's any config option for openvpn to force traffic through the kernel. You're using a Linux server, right? 

and rebooting. The question remains: Is this typical for current 6 gb/s equipment? Is this the sad state of SATA storage? Or is some of my equipment (the sff-8088 cables come to mind) bad? The Problem was: Synchronizing HW RAID-6, disks kept offlining. Fetching SMART values reveiled that those which offlined did not increase powered-on hours anymore. That is, their firmware (CC4C) seems to crash. Digging into the matter by switching to Software RAID-6, with the disks passed-through, I got tons of kernel messages scattered across all disks, with 6 gb/s: 

I'd like to use "ipmitool ... sol activate" to record any kernel panics that may happen. I managed to keep GRUB2 in text-mode with "GRUB_TERMINAL=console" in /etc/default/grub. But right after the message "Loading initial ramdisk" (which is still GRUB), when Linux starts printing text on VGA console, messages on the serial console stop. I guess either GRUB or Linux is doing something at that point, like loading a font, which kills off the vga-text-to-serial line. I'd like to keep it from doing that, whatever it is. I have tried so far: 

Well, do as mysql says: convert big fields from varchar to text or blob (ALTER TABLE). text fields behave much like varchar (indices needs prefix length, but nevertheless work), but are stored separately. This reference tells you the exact limits of every stock mysql table engine: $URL$ And here's everything to know about text fields: $URL$ 

Try turning on error_reporting(E_ALL); and point your browser to the image URL. Comment the type header to see any error messages that may be hidden if your browser only displays a broken pict message. And fix that missing semi-colon Ben mentioned. Edit: And sanitize $_GET['src'] you may be opening a big security hole there. 

Only few programs can use SOCKS Proxies natively. Some programs can be forced through the Proxy, though, with tools like tsocks. Nice alternative: Create tunnels listening on 127.0.0.X, X starting at 2 and being increased for every server, and edit hosts accordingly.