I ran low voltage for two years in a residential setting. Go for Cat-5e for both phone and ethernet, one cable for each. Cat-5E handles gigabit perfectly well, and unless you have a ginormous house(read: greater than 300ft from outlet to closet) you won't have problems. Let's talk wiring closet locations. Avoid the attic, seriously, it sucks. It's hot, you can't work with your equipment, bad news. Go lower, the basement. Try for a central-ish area, but generally tucking it all into your furnace room is a fine idea, unless it's tight for space. Ensure that where your wires all come out has adequate power built-in, it'll be easier that way. Also, if you can afford it, a decent patch-panel for your ethernet, and a phone punch-down block are very good choices, it will make maintaining and upgrading much easier. Lets talk labeling. Mostly, just do it. Label both ends of every wire. If you don't run the wires yourself, make sure whoever does writes up a paper on what and where every wire is and goes. 20 years down the road, I might have to fix something, and it takes longer if I don't know where things are. Remember, I charge by the hour, and I'm not cheap. Let's talk routing. Generally you don't need to worry about conduit, it's a bit of a hassle for low-voltage is usually unnecessary. Don't use staples except for a single wire, near the end of it's run. A pinched wire or a staple through a jacket can cause problems. Do put one or two 3-4" solid PVC tubes from the basement to the attic. These arn't for your current wires, leave them empty for future. Lets talk future wiring. Depending on the house you have, you might not have to future-proof as much as you think. A standard unfinished(exposed ceiling) basement, two stories, and an accessible attic are all you need to easily add wires down the road. Using those PVC tubes, you can run wires to the attic, and then down the walls to the 2nd story. Drill up from the basement for the 1st floor. You may need additional "conduit" depending on your situation. Use flexible "smurf" blue tubing as another poster mentioned. It's cheap, easy to run, and works fine. If you need some flexiblity in an area that will be finished, consider putting an electrical box with a few tubes and pull-wires in it, and then cover it with a blank plate. Down the road if I need to run wires, and can't find another way, I start checking those blank boxes, and usually find a way to make it work. Lets talk cable. Usually all you need in each room is one coax drop. Insist on RG-6 or better. RG-59 is not suitable for long runs of digital signal. Most competent installers will guide you to this anyway. Run them all to a single point, and have an amplifier-splitter from your main feed. Unless you have a dual-tuner environment, you shouldn't need two or more wires, although if you do, be sure to grab them. Lets talk other accessories. Consider the following 

I often click to view the "cached" google version, as it highlights my search terms. Some sites change fairly regularly and it's not uncommon for the google snippet to no longer exist at all! 

It's rather off-topic, but may prove useful to others in similar situations but slightly different requirements. You can modify a wireless doorbell to turn your pc on and off rather easily. Check out the 3-page guide here 

I know a number of people also use 'virtualenv' to create sub-environments with different versions and libraries. Check it here: virtualenv 

It's not necessarily going to speed up time, but it can be useful for debugging. Nirsoft's RunAsDate From the site: 

If I understand your question correctly, look into TweakUI from Microsoft PowerToys. It has a number of Power-User oriented tweaks and changes, and hiding icons is one of them. 

Somewhat controversially, Throw it in a dishwasher! Pro + Howto: Scott Mochella Against: NPR Anecdotally: Worked great for me, but make sure you let it sit for a day or two to let it dry completely. Water doesn't hurt electronics, water hurts electronics that have power to them. Otherwise, yes, pop the keys off and wash/clean those. It's a long process, but it does tend to work well. 

For most of these things, talk to a specialized company in your area. They have specialized requirements that are too numerous to mention here. Let them know your situation, and they are generally grateful to visit the construction site and do their own pre-wiring. Saves them lots of time later on. If you have questions about anything specific, feel free to ask! 

As an answer to the second part of your question, most GPU's will accelerate mpeg-4/Xvid/DivX as well as standard MPEG-2 codecs. Most modern GPU's(9300 included) also accelerate h.264. However, BluRay can use either h.264(MPEG-4 AVC), MPEG-2, or VC-1. Often, when a BluRay disk gets ripped, the ripper will directly copy the streams and re-wrap them in a container such as matroska, without any other encoding, so your PC is forced to handle the VC-1 decoding. No guarantees thats what's happening in your situation, but whether you are decoding VC-1 or something else, that's your likely problem. 

Check for an Apple Store nearby. In or out of warranty, they may be willing to remove it for free due to the novelty. If you don't mind cracking the case open, grab a nice set of small tools and head over to iFixit and find the Teardown guide to your model. Here's the 13" Macbook Pro unibody LCD teardown. Pluck the guy out and blow out some dust while you're there, and put it back together. 

ia64 is a reference to the relative flop that is Itanium. The i7's use x64, aka: amd64 or x86-64, or Intel 64 (EM64T). They all refer to essentially compatible 64-bit extensions. For more info on those, check here 

A slightly more involved but good solution is to run a PPTP Server from a home PC. It's easy to setup in Windows, and will encrypt and forward any and all traffic through your Home PC and then out to the internet from your home ISP connection. There is a performance impact, but for email, and standard web applications, it's not prohibitive on modern hardware. 

Live View is a java-based VMWare forensic tool to create VMWare images from dd-style images or a physical disk. Check it out at sourceforge. LiveView 

Coupled with Kevin Panko's comment, You need to know your motherboard model, not the CPU. An easy way to find out the details is the excellent CPU-Z program from CPUID. CPU-Z Using that information, check google, or Kevin's Crucial link to find what memory is supported. 

I imagine you have to "enable" wireless security in a drop down list or a checkbox, not just set a WEP password. If you could give us a model number, we'd be happy to give a step-by-step answer. This article may be able to provide more information as well 

Hardware may be the simpler answer. Remove the batteries and see who notices. And/or remove the wifi pci card. Other options include a small dab of rubber cement between the laptop and docking station, it'll pull off easily still, but you should be able to still tell if it's intact. 

A thread at Hexus here, describes another user's identical problem, and several possible solutions. The final "stop-gap" solution that worked for that user was using the Windows version of hdparm and setting up a batch file to run at startup, since the settings got erased at restart. 

No. If you upgrade, you will have to do a full format and install. Check into Windows "Easy Transfer" to help ease the pain. This post by Scott Hanselman details more about the process and options. 

Definitely an unusual problem, so lets do a few things. Is the video a DVD or a hard-drive based source? Vibration-based skipping is more likely to come from the DVD than the hard-drive, but either are theoretically possible. Laptop sound-cards arn't generally "replaceable", but you can add an external USB one. If you have a friend or feel like parting with some cash for awhile, borrow/purchase an external sound card and see if it resolves your problem. If not, return it. 

I have done this. It works. If you're nervous around capacitors, be aware that they can and will store residual mains power. Practice basic safety: Unplug the psu, ground yourself against the case. Snip the wires, strip them, and use a 'decent' wire splicing method. wrapping them with electrical tape is not a good idea. Solder + heat shrink, small wirenuts, "B-connectors", etc. I've been hit by the caps, you feel it, but it wasn't horrible. As always, proceed at your own risk, but I've done this plenty of times. I wouldn't recommend fiddling with the rest of the components, but just a simple wiresnip on the fan leads is pretty painless. Caveat: Some PSU's run their fan on 12V, some on 5V. If you have a multimeter, check and make sure you pick a fan rated for those speeds. Most 5V 'can' run on 12V, but it's not recommended. 

It's beta, but functional. It's not quite as straightforward, but it works. It IS windows based and free. ELDER from some Doom9 guys 

If watercooling breaks the budget, there are other ways to reduce noise. Monitor temps or consider purchasing a fan controller to turn off or slow down the pair of 120mm fans. If they are the same as the antec 120mm in my case, it isn't the quietest out there and they connect directly to the power supply rails, so they arn't dynamically turned down. Good alternatives for low cost would such as some of the scythe brand fans: Slip Stream 120mm I don't know if you're using stock intel heatsink like the photo, but passive heatsinks can work very well, especially with the airflow from the side fans. I've had excellent cooling and very very quiet operation off my Xigmatek s1283. Ensure your fans are connected to the motherboard headers, and use fan-control software to spin down the fans when not necessary. Most processors can also lower clock rates to maintain cool temperatures. 

In firefox, use View->Character Encoding->More Encodings->UTF-16. Hope that helps. Most computer text is encoded as either or 8-bit Unicode (UTF-8) For more info on UTF-16 specifically, check here. In general, if you see the in firefox, use some "intelligent guessing" and try changing character encodings. Usually this works, occasionally though, particularly with linux firefox, you may run into font issues. 

On the contrary, I say no. The only benefit of '$$%fOe._ba' over an 'abc' password is if someone attempts to crack your password. YES have a password, any password. You're owned anyway, but joe shmo will be foiled. don't reuse this password. If someone with skill DOES get your pc, sure, they will get your data, but if you password is crackable, they can try to use it on other sites.