MS Access is actually a combination of a rapid development UI tool and file system based relational database (JET). Pros: - Easy deployment, just copy the file out to the network and tell people the path to it. - Rapid prototyping and very good UI development tools for database type applications - Generally much cheaper to deploy, especially for small installations. Cons - Maintenance - You have to lock out all the users when you want to do DB compaction, repair or other maintenance. - As a result of using a file based DB, it is more prone to data corruption with a large number of users or with flaky network connections. - Although the number is debated, you are going to max out the number of users you can support with a single Access DB much sooner than with SQL. MS SQL Server is a Client-server relational database system, with no UI development tools built in. Pros: - Maintenance - Lots of tools for maintenance, can do most of it with users in DB. Thus, you get higher uptime. - Enterprise scale - it is designed to support a lot more users and scales better to handle them. Cons: - Expensive - For your 5 user app to keep track of a few hundred thousand items, it can be overkill. - More complex - All the extra features introduce a learning curve. - No built-in UI development tools - You will need another dev platform to build a front-end and (arguably) reporting. Actually, Access can work as a front end for SQL, but for a number of reasons DBAs tend to hate Access users connecting to their databases. Miscellany - Although you may hear otherwise, don't make the decision based on the size of the DB, make the call based on features and size of your user base. - Access actually is a pretty good UI tool for databases hosted in SQL Server. So the right answer might be "Both" depending on your needs. 

with xev I got it what 122 and 123 are (they work normaly under KDE when I press them, it's just that 123 wont map and stay mapped for my pad) 

Anyone know how to disable this annoying hover info in new amarok 2.4? I browsed through all the options (not that there is much of them), but couldn't find how to turn that feature off... It's getting in the way when hovering over songs with your mouse and really is not necessary thank you 

You can ARP spoof your phone from your computer and capture all the raw packets with Wireshark or tcpdump to examine them. Other way would be to turn your computer into an access-point, run wireshark on it, connect your phone to the network through that computer and capture the packets. 

after a client connects to an AP, if we don't explicitly lock it to a certain channel, will it just pick a channel and stick to it, or will it change the channel every few seconds/minutes/whatever? thank you 

I am planning a wireless network that will involve a wireless radio modem that must be mounted pretty far from my house on a post (Needs line of sight to work) and then getting the signal back over to the house using an outdoor wireless access point(something like this, for example). Both the modem and the WAP can be powered by Power over Ethernet and I was wondering if I can chain them. For example, can I replace this configuration... Cat5 -> PoE Injector -> Cat5 -> WAP -> Cat5 --> PoE Injector-> Cat5 -> Modem With this configuration... Cat5 -> PoE Injector -> Cat5 -> WAP -> Cat5 -> Modem Is this possible? Also, Is one of these two configurations a bad idea for some reason? 

This seems like it would be obvious, but I can't find it anywhere on the screens provided when I log into my wireless router. Maybe I'm just missing something obvious here, but I thought I'd take the chance of looking stupid and ask the community anyway. Is there a simple way to see all the current devices connected to my wireless router? It is a LinkSys WRT54-G router if it matters. 

Depending on what you are looking for - ARP poisoning might be the solution. That way you could capture the packets and examine them... They will be a little bit different than original ones (IP headers will have your computers IP as incoming/outgoing depending on if they are going out or into your network, but it does not matter... packets will stay the same and you'll be able to recognize what you need). check arpspoof and/or ettercap 

Is there a way to slowdown an online flash app framerate (from lets say 100% down to 30%)? Maybe some kind of an add-on for firefox or something similar? Maybe some other approach? thank you 

I believe xmarks is the right solution for you. It is a cross-browser plugin and it supports tab, bookmark, password synchronisation over different browsers (even under different OS's). 

if you want to enable something/anything for a certain user(s) at some point, you will be able to do so... 

I have a wireless network in my home that consists of a 802.11g/b router connected directly to my broadband provider and several devices (Ipod, Xbox, Laptops, etc) that access the network over the wireless connection. For a couple of corners of my house I have a really weak and sometimes intermittent connection that I'd like to improve and am trying to determine the best/cheapest way to accomplish this. The question is this, with an 802.11n router do I get the benefit of the longer range when talking to an 802.11b device? It is well documented that I won't get the full 802.11n bandwidth, but I am only concerned about getting a few more bars at further distances. If this won't work, what is the best way to increase the reach of my wireless network with the constraint that the router can't move to another physical location. 

I have a Dell laptop computer issued to me by my employer with an Internal network card. I am considering upgrading my home wifi network from 802.11g to 802.11n, but want to make sure the laptop will benefit from the upgrade. Is there an easy way to tell if this internal modem supports the 802.11n standard, or maybe is there a way in the OS (Windows 7) to get the make/model of the card so I can look this information up? 

any hint on what I should do to fix this and make my configuration stay? if it means anything, or helps anyhow - system is arch with 2.6.35 kernel, kde 4.5.1 if you need any additional info I can provide it thank you very much =) 

try shoutcast, it's quite popular you can also try vibe streamer you'll probably have to enable port forwarding on your router for the streaming to work. 

I have a broadcom wireless card in my laptop and as far as I know, it acts as an USB device. I also have one USB stick wireless device (TL-WN422G - uses ath9k_htc driver) which I want to use at the same time as the first (Broadcom) device. The problem is, after I load ath9k_htc - iwconfig does not show the new USB device (the TL-WN422G - wlan1 / ath0 / whatever), but only the old one (wlan0 - Broadcom, checked by MAC). I tried this USB device (TL-WN422G) on my other computer that has PCI wireless card in it, and they both worked just fine together after I pluged it in... I get wlan0 (Ralink) and wlan1 (TL-WN422G). Is it some kind of a problem for the laptop that both devices are recognized as USB? How do I make wlan1 appear on my laptop? also, my system is fully up to date 2.6.35 kernel (Arch) edit: I've already downloaded the needed ar9271.fw from linuxwireless.org and I put it into /lib/firmware - something wrong in that? dmesg gives me this on laptop: 

There are a number of console type applications, e.g. ipconfig, that output information to the standard output. The problem is that if I create a windows shortcut to them it runs the command and closes the console window before I can read the output. I realize that I could create a batch file with a pause command and then make the shortcut go to that batch file, but I was wondering if there was any generic way I could configure a shortcut to a console/command-line type program to leave the window open until the user explicitly closes it. 

This seems like it should be so basic, but it apparently isn't very intuitive. The scenario: (1) I've inserted a table into a new blank MS-Word document. (2) I want to add some text outside and above the table. Problem: The table is butted right up against the top of the document and I can't move the cursor to a point before the table to insert any new text. I've found that you can do this by cutting the table to the clipboard, type the new text and paste the table back, but there just has to be a more straightforward way to put the cursor at a point before a table that is at the top of a document.