I have a Brocade FastIron FESX648 and I'm attempting to increase the ARP cache timeout on a port that is connected to an IXP. According to the Brocade docs, I can increase the timeout up to 4 hours with the setting . I've tried applying this setting globally, specifically to the IXP-facing port and variety of other combinations (lower and higher timeout values), but nothing seems to work. Whenever I run I can see that the ARP entries for IXP hosts are continually refreshed and never age higher than 4 minutes. Has anyone faced a similar problem with Brocade FastIron gear and have any config suggestions or possible workarounds? 

I use an iSavi IsatHub for Internet connectivity when I'm in the backcountry out of cellular service. This device is a BGAN terminal and it works by establishing a data link with an Inmarsat satellite and then provides a WiFi network to connect your devices. Data usage is very expensive, so it offers a number of safeguards to prevent accidental usage. One of those safeguards is a firewall. I only need SSH connectivity, so I blocked all outgoing ports with the exception of TCP port 22, UDP 53 and TCP 53. All inbound traffic is allowed. This past week I was in the backcountry far from cell service. I fired up the IsatHub and connected my phone to the WiFi network. Much to my surprise, I started receiving text messages to my Verizon phone. More to my surprise, I was able to reply to those text messages and have a back and forth conversation. The satellite terminal has its own SIM card and SMS capabilities, but these messages were received over my Verizon SIM. I've searched the net for any documentation on network ports used for WiFi texting and calling. I found this and it does include TCP53 and UDP53 (which I assume are for DNS lookups), but it also includes UDP500 and UDP4500 which are standard IPSEC VPN ports. Does anyone have an idea of how this was possible? How the heck was I able to send text messages over WiFi with my Verizon phone when I've blocked all outgoing ports except those needed for SSH and DNS? Is it somehow related to accepting all inbound traffic? Could Verizon be re-appropriating port 53 for WiFi texting? Edit: When I returned home, I connected my phone (airplane mode, wifi turned on) to my home WiFi network, sent a test text message and took a capture of the network ports in use. The only ports I saw in use between my phone and Verizon-owned IP addresses were ports UDP500, UDP4500 and TCP443 (500 and 4500 being used for the IPSEC VPN ports I mentioned earlier). 

Network traffic is a very generic word , so shortly if you want to dig this field you need to understand two main things. 

Changing permission for the Cisco system folder , Then running it in admin mode Open IE 10 , enable menu bar (right click of address bar), go to Tools (Ger. Extra),choose Compatibility View thenadd the 127.0.0.1 in the list check if you have installed the flash player for IE. You could un-install the flash player and download the one for Internet Explorer, if you still have the problem try to run tool in this link flash debug tool it should solve the problem 

for the first part of your question For Cisco device There are 16 privilege levels 3 of them are default and the other are configurable . the default as you said Privilege level 0 — includes the disable, enable, exit, help, and logout commands. Privilege level 1 — Normal level on Telnet; includes all user-level commands at the router> prompt. Privilege level 15 — includes all enable-level commands at the router# prompt. *Commands available at a particular level in a particular router can be found by typing a ? at the router prompt. * Router>show privilege Current privilege level is 1 Router>enable 5 Password: level-5-password Router#show privilege Current privilege level is 5 Router# You can configure whatever privilege you need with whatever commands you allow by using the privilege command as illustrated. privilege mode {level level command | reset} command the highest privilege level can execute commands that associated to it plus the the command associated to the lower privilege example username user_9 privilege 9 password pass_1 username user_6 privilege 6 password pass_6 username user_15 privilege 15 password pass_15 privilege configure level 8 snmp-server community privilege exec level 6 show running privilege exec level 8 configure terminal User user_6 is able to Telnet in and execute the show run command, but the resulting configuration is virtually blank because this user cannot configure anything (configure terminal is at level 8, not at level 6). The user is not permitted to see usernames and passwords of the other users, or to see Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) information. User user_9 is able to Telnet in and execute the show run command, but only sees commands that he can configure (the snmp-server community part of the router configuration, since this user is our network management administrator). He can configure snmp-server community because configure terminal is at level 8 (at or below level 9), and snmp-server community is a level 8 command. The user is not permitted to see usernames and passwords of the other users, but he is trusted with the SNMP configuration. 

As far as I know about full and half duplex, if we have a channel with bandwidth 10Mbps then in full duplex both sender and receiver can transfer 10Mb in both directions at the same time and in half duplex only sender or receiver can transfer 10Mb at a time. If suppose, propagation delay is 1 sec then is the capacity of channel in full duplex 20Mb and in half duplex 10Mb ? How can the capacity of a channel double based on the mode, it should be same all the time right? 

ISP grants block of addresses starting with 190.100.0.0/16. It needs to distribute IP's to customer as:- a)First group has 64 customers, each with 256 addresses. b)Second group has 128 customers, each with 128 addresses. c)Third group has 128 customers, each with 64 addresses. What are the address ranges for each group ? 

The solution says that for 1st group we allocate IP addresses from 190.100.0.0/24 (1st customer) to 190.100.63.255/24(last or 64th customer). My doubt is how is network id 24? 190.100.0.0 can be written as 190.100.00000000.00000000 . I think that the bold part acts as a subnet ID which is given to each group by the ISP and the remaining (32-(16+2))=14 should be the host ID. So if we consider 1st group then starting address will be 190.100.00000000.00000000/18 and ending address should be 190.100.00111111.11111111/18 which is the same address range as given in the solution except for the number of bits in the network ID part which I think should be 18 (16+2). Also, for the 2nd group we can have subnet ID as 01 and have address range as 190.100.01000000.00000000/18 to 190.100.01111111.11111111/18 but here the solution says netid part should have 25 bits. Where am I going wrong? PS:- This is not an homework question. It is a solved example in forouzan book which I am trying to understand. 

Anyone have any ideas where I should look next? The results of #2, #3, and #11 in particular are really throwing me for a loop... 

We have a cabinet of dedicated servers with a Brocade FESX648-PREM switch at the top. We own all the hardware and all the MAC addresses are known to us. We also fully manage the servers so we retain administrative access, but our customers have administrative access as well. Currently we use VLANs and subnets to isolate the servers, prevent IP hijacking, etc. However, we want to make more efficient use of our IPv4 allocations. We lose a lot of usable IPs for gateway purposes and we have an abundance of subnets too small for many customer needs. I've considered progressively migrating the servers to a single VLAN and use static ARP to prevent IP hijacking. We'd lose layer 2 isolation, but I'm not sure what sort of abuse that would open us up to. What are the dangers of placing all of our servers on a single VLAN with only static ARP bindings to prevent IP hijacking? In other words, what forms of abuse would be possible with a single VLAN config that would not be possible with every server on its own VLAN? Are there any precautions we can take to prevent the abuse while achieving our goals of more efficient IPv4 usage? 

Unless the wifi is intended for administrative access, this would not be a great idea. You will encounter all kinds of interference and increased latency. Your server cabinet is most likely bonded to the ground and essentially amounts to a Faraday cage. Not to mention all the other large metal objects in a datacenter that could cause interference. The datacenter is also very unlikely to allow you to stick antennas outside of your cabinet to improve the signal. Point-to-point wireless bridges such as these work very well and are widely used. However, they are typically deployed on rooftops where unobstructed line of sight can be established and are used for pulling connectivity into a building where fiber is lacking. 

i think the one of the best possible ways is to establish VPN connection between the two PC . make use of this video vpn setup 

useful tool can help you to make good wireless survey is wifi analyzer on the android phones. its can work on both ranges 2.4 and 5 GHZ 

2 . Use built-in netsh command in Windows 7 or Windows 8 To do so, go to your Command Prompt that you can find in Accessories or click on the Windows button (Windows 7) or press Windows button on keyboard (Windows 8), and then type cmd 

a good tutorial for netstate commands NETSTATE COM i know it is a very hard way to do so but it is free of charge 

Select the "Show the capture options" toolbar button. Select the "Capture Filter" button and double click on the "Broadcast and Multicast" filter. Select "Start" and then go into "Statistics", "Conversations" and select the "IPv4" tab. Finally, sort the list by bytes and attempt to find the culprit when stuff happens. 

when you think in internet service stability and resilience (as you describe) you need to think in different ISP , not multiple AS , and may you run each ISP on different Router and then run any internal redundancy protocol like HSRP or VRRP between those routers to provide single internet GW to the users.if you run multiple AS on the same ISP it won't make seance cause if this ISP connection is drooped so the all AS related to it will drooped as well. 

the most simple way to do that is proxy server with black list include all sits you try to block , but to be onest with you in such environment any small solution could be hacked by the users. may you need to invest little bit in some sort of small business firewall. regardless product recognition i just try fortigate 60C in such environment and it is working properly. 

No other servers in the cabinet are experiencing packet loss. The gateway switch and bad server can ping each other without issue. If I log into another server in the cabinet and attempt to ping the bad server, then I do get the packet loss. The routing table on the bad server is fine -- the default route points to the proper gateway, no other entries exist (except for local IPv4 assignments). Firewalls have been disabled. No VPN setup is in effect (i.e., routing table on the bad server just has the default route). CPU load and network traffic are both very low. Server has been power cycled. Speed and duplex settings are set to auto-neg and are the same on both the switch and server. Forced 100mbit full on both ends, still had the packet loss. There are no port errors (no drops, collisions, FCS etc) recorded on the switch. CPU utilization on the switch is low ($URL$ 

I'm working on testing several FESX448-PREM switches. One of the switches in my test group is known to be bad. It was previously installed as a top of cabinet switch, 42 servers were connected to it, all port lights came on, full duplex, no errors, low CPU, etc but ports 13-24 would not forward traffic. As I understand it, this is due to a bad ASIC that covers port region 13-24. However, I now have this bad switch at my work bench and I cannot replicate the same forwarding issue with port region 13-24. At my work bench, I have port 1 as the uplink and I've been connecting my laptop to ports 2-48 sequentially using a CAT6 cable while running a continuous ping to a public IP. Interestingly, all the ports now work fine -- port region 13-24 no longer has forwarding issues. Does anyone know how this is possible? If there's a bad ASIC for port region 13-24, then I'd expect this problem to occur 100% of the time. I tried a couple other things afterwards. I had the theory that I needed more ports active at once in order to trigger the forwarding issue. So I first took a layer 2 switch and connected it on a bunch of ports with the FESX448. CPU usage immediately went to 100% on the FESX448. I figured something recursive routing was happening with the layer 2 switch. Next, I put the layer 2 switch into boot monitor mode so it wouldn't do any routing. That resolved the 100% CPU issue, but again I'm still unable to replicate the traffic forwarding issues with ports 13-24. Any suggestions on how I can replicate the forwarding issue and effectively test the remaining switches would be much appreciated! 

I am trying to understand the working of Go-Back N using this website:- $URL$ Here, suppose we are sending frames 1,2,3,4,5,6 (window size 4) and in the current window we have frames 1,2,3,4. Now suppose ACK 4 is lost then according to the website none of frames in the current window are re-transmitted. According to my understanding, frames 3,4,5,6 (of current window) must be re-transmitted. Where am I going wrong? 

I read that "TCP/IP protocol suite contains relatively independent protocols which can be mixed and matched which is not possible in OSI". What is the meaning of mix and match over here ? Can we mix transport layer and network layer protocols ? 

In IP header we have header checksum field which is calculated at every hop because some of the fields in IP header like TTL changes in every hop. In TCP we calculate checksum on pseudo IP header + TCP header + TCP data . Here pseudo IP header doesn't contain the IP header fields that change frequently. So in IP header checksum why don't we compute checksum on pseudo header or a header excluding fields which change frequently like TTL ? It will also help to reduce the computational overhead . 

How does router transmit RIP messages to other routers? RIP uses UDP (transport layer protocol) to transmit messages and routers don't operate at transport layer. 

I read that packet filtering firewall operates at level 3 (network layer). In the description I read that it filters packets based on IP addresses and ports. If it's operating at level 3, how can it filter packets based on source and destination ports ? I think it should operate at level 4. 

In message switching, the switches wait for the entire message to arrive (store) and then forward it to other switches. Does packet switching also use store and forward technique ? I know that in packet switching, the message is divided into packets and sent across the links. But are the packets sent as soon as they arrive at the switch or are they stored in a similar way as message switching? 

second one if your devices and router interfaces from the lan side run same IP range , may you login to each device and configure primary and seconry GW 

if any user plugged in if any switch plugged in if it is working as a plan B for any physical failure check the running configuration if it is part of any policy , NAT (if you run on cisco appliance may you issue #sh run | inc ) if it is attached to any VLAN may you need to know what is the use of this vlan 

route add X.X.X.X mask Y.Y.Y.Y Z1.Z1.Z1.Z1 metric 10 route add X.X.X.X mask Y.Y.Y.Y Z2.Z2.Z2.Z2 metric 20 wher Xs are your lan ip range and Ys are the mask and Z1s are the primary GW and Z2s are the secondry one 

it can also be used to trubleshoot connectivity problems (cascadded devices or loops) and it can also be used for simple configurations like add vlans or configur port for access vlans or trunk . what i very like in it it also can draw stacked switched to gether in both topology layout and rack layout 

you can use some sort of of small business call agent (i.e. Cisco call manager express CME) in both sides which can handle Voip calls over WAN and local,mobile and international calls through PSTN and if you want to obtain small call center it has call center express as well but it is licensed feature. you also can use open source call agent like Asterisk and register those GW on it if you don't want to bay any equipment other that your IP phones you can join ISP which can run telephone service on it , which is called ITSP, ITSP will handle all VOIP feature you need (i.e. dial peers , route patterns , conferences , auto attendance and so on) please check this link VOIP INFO