With modern equipment, you can use a straight-through or crossover cable. Most equipment can detect and configure a crossover in the interface, if needed. You seem to be confused about the cabling standards. Both T568A and T568B are straight-through if you use the same standard on both ends. It is only a crossover if you use T568A on one end, and T568B on the other end. 

The translation table on each router is independent from the translation table on the other router. It sounds like you have an asymmetric routing problem. You need the link between the routers to be outside interfaces so that return traffic coming into Router 1 for translation on Router 2 will pass through a Router 2 outside interface. Router 2 will not attempt to translate return traffic unless it passes through an outside interface on Router 2, and vice versa. 

There are a few things wrong with what you wrote. If you capture at the hosts, there will not be a VLAN tag on the frame. VLAN tags are used on trunks where there are multiple VLANs so that the network devices can tell which frames belong to which VLAN. The switch does not broadcast unless the frame is a broadcast frame. A switch will have a MAC address table that has the MAC addresses from the frames' source addresses, and from which switch interfaces the source addresses were seen coming into the switch. The switch will look up a frame destination MAC address in the MAC address table and send the frame to the corresponding interface. If the switch doesn't find the destination MAC address in the table, it will flood the frame to all other switch interfaces in the same broadcast domain (VLAN). A host will compare the destination IP address to the hosts's IP address and mask to see if it is in the same network. If the destination MAC address is in the same network, it will use ARP to discover the the destination host's MAC address, and use that as the destination MAC address for the frame. If the destination host's IP address is in a different network, the host will use the MAC address of the configured gateway as the destination MAC address for the frame. If the connection between the switch and the router is a trunk, both the switch and the router will tag any frames for non-native VLANs. The switch will not include a VLAN tag on the access ports. 

It is saying that you can write your own networking stack to the IEEE 802 LAN specification. Your stack need not include anything to do with the OSI model, or any other existing model. If you are successful in your programming efforts, the IEEE 802 LAN compliant hardware will transport your data from one device running your stack to another directly connected device running your stack. The PHY doesn't deal with switch or router specifications or functions. A dumb repeater (hub) would work with your stack. Basically, the PHY is completely independent of any layers above it. 

There is no official definition, and it means different things to different people. In general, the term, "flat network," means that the network isn't hierarchical (network engineer definition), or it is not security segmented (security engineer definition). You could have multiple VLANs all terminating in a single layer-3 device, and some consider that to be a flat network. Networks with hierarchies and/or security segmentation aren't usually considered flat networks, but it depends on the audience. 

The Internet is full of reasons to use iBGP. For instance, iBGP reasons? on the NIL Forum. BGP also uses a standard TCP connection to exchange route information. A big reason is that you want to redistribute your IGP routes into BGP, but you don't want to redistribute the BGP routes into your IGP; this can cause routing loops. Yes, it is easier to provide a default route to the eBGP routers, but that is not always appropriate, either. 

You also say that the address that you want to use for the gateway is another switch. You need to make sure that address really is a gateway for that network. Do not confuse the layer-2 LAN with the layer-3 routing. The address you use as a gateway needs to be a router (or layer-3 switch) that knows how to get to other networks. You should edit your question to include a good description (a diagram would be great) of how your network is connected, and the full switch configurations. That would help us give you a more specific answer. 

Yes. OSPF requires network advertisement to go through Area 0 (the backbone). This is a loop prevention mechanism so that route advertisement cannot get into a loop. 

As Ron Trunk points out, you cannot have more than one Area 0 for one AS. You could use virtual links to connect separate Area 0s in the same AS. Think about it this way, Area 0 is the backbone area. What is the backbone of your network. That is where you put Area 0. That may be the WAN connections. It may be that you configure and Area 0 at each site, and you connect the sites with BGP, another OSPF instance, static routes, or another routing protocol, and you redistribute routes. You could also have a main site that is Area 0, and all the other sites are in different areas, with the main site WAN connections for the other areas in those areas. With a main site, you could simply have default routes for the branch sites. You need to step back and understand where the network backbone is or should be. 

Cisco maintains a page with links to the password recovery procedures for a lot of devices: Password Recovery Procedures You will need to restart the switch to get to ROMMON in order to recover the password and fix the configuration, unless you can get in on a VTY or AUX line. 

Set the Wi-Fi router into bridge mode and manage on the main router. You should have a separate VLAN for your Wi-Fi if you want to treat that traffic separately. Manage on the Wi-Fi router. The Wi-Fi router may not be capable of this if it is a consumer-grade device, in which case it would be off-topic for this forum. 

A ping with a packet size much larger than the MTU will succeed, but only if fragmentation is allowed, and all the fragments reach the target and can be reassembled into the original ICMP packet. Any packet (ICMP or otherwise) larger than the smallest MTU in the path with the DF bit set will fail to get to the other end. 

Because we need to add tags to frames on trunk interfaces so that the other end of the trunk link knows which frames belong to which VLANs. In your example, with a single VLAN shared across two switches, you do not need to trunk, and would not have VLAN tags if you don't. If you had multiple VLANs on both switches, then you need to tag the frames between the switches, otherwise you end up leaking frames between VLANs, which leads to problems. 

Edit: A router will have separate logical interfaces, on the same physical interface, for each VLAN. For a Cisco router, it looks something like this: 

The frames from one host to the other will have a path toward the root bridge. At S1, you get a shortcut since S1 will have the MAC address of the destination host in its MAC address table, or it will flood the frame to all non-blocking interfaces, which creates the shortcut, too. The root bridge is relevant because the only non-blocking path is toward the root bridge. Assume that there is no S1. S2 and S3 are directly connected to the root bridge, and S2 and S3 have a connection between them. The frames will need to travel through the root bridge because the link between S2 and S3 will be blocked on one side or the other. STP sets up a single non-blocking path, and that is toward the root bridge. Any links from one of the switches on one side to any of the switches on the other side will not play any part because the only non-blocking path is toward the root bridge. 

The bandwidth on an interface is the bandwidth on the interface. It is possible to use multiple interfaces (up to eight) in a port channel between the switches to give you a greater aggregate bandwidth, but a single flow will still only use a single link in the channel. This will require more links between the switches, but you have not given enough information to determine if that requires the rewiring that you want to avoid. 

While you claim to have checked the VTP passwords, the 2811 and the 3750 have the same VTP domain name, but they are clearly configured with different VTP passwords. 

Basically, you split the 48-bit MAC address in half, insert in the middle, and flip the U/L bit. This results in a 64-bit Interface Identifier from a 48-bit MAC address. When you split the resulting 64 bits of the IID into four 16-bit words separated by colons, you get what your instructor has. Starting with your MAC address, :