Chapter 11 of Introduction to Lattices and Order, by Davey and Priestley covers Stone's theorem. Matthew Gwynne's slides cover the theorem and give a proof of compactness. Matthew (in the comments) also suggests Introduction to Boolean Algebras by Paul Halmos. In moving from propositional logic to modal logic, the Boolean algebra is extended with a join-preserving operator and topology with an interior. Jónsson and Tarski's 1952 paper, Boolean Algebras with Operators is extremely readable and consistent with modern notation. Chapter 5 of Modal Logic by Blackburn, de Rijke and Venema covers Stone's theorem and its extension to Boolean algebras with operators. Stone Spaces by Peter Johnstone reviews such results for various other kinds of algebras. 

You may find it helpful to think of your problem in terms of equalities and strict inequalities. In the case of the constraints being equalities or disequalities there is a simple saturation procedure based on transitivity of equality. Strict inequalities can be represented by directed edges in a graph. You can then compute strongly connected components to reason about dependencies between sets of variables. If you have uninterpreted functions, you can use congruence closure. I would imagine that the first results date to the 50s or at least the 70s, but I do not have a good reference for you. Recent literature in which these ideas occur is the paper below. 

I am a bit confused about the term interactive. I'll chime in with the others and add that an SMT solver might be helpful. To add to Walter Bishop's comment, slides for the Decision Procedures (Kroening and Strichman) book are available. John Harrison's thorough treatment in Handbook of Practical Logic and Automated Reasoning may also interest you. Example code is available online. Philipp Ruemmer's Princess supports arithmetic with uninterpreted predicates, which might fit what you mean by open. It's written in Scala, uses E-matching in handling quantification and provides interpolants. 

"Sometimes" and "not never" revisited: on branching versus linear time temporal logic, Emerson and Halpern, 1986 On the Expressive Power of CTL, Moller, Rabinovich, 1999 Computation tree logic CTL* and path quantifiers in the monadic theory of the binary tree, Hafer and Thomas, 1987 An Axiomatization of Full Computation Tree Logic, Reynolds, 2001 

Finite Model Theory, Ebbinghaus and Flum Elements of Finite Model Theory, Libkin On winning strategies in Ehrenfeucht-Fraisse games, Arora and Fagin, 1997. Homomorphism preservation theorems, Rossman 

What you are doing is deriving a topological representation of a Boolean algebra. The study of representations of Boolean algebras goes back at least to Lindenbaum and Tarski who proved (in 1925, I think) that the complete, atomic Boolean algebras are isomorphic to powerset lattices. There are however, Boolean algebras that are not complete and atomic. For example, the sequence $x_1, x_1 \land x_2, \ldots$, is a descending chain that has no limit in the Boolean algebra defined over formulas. The question of whether arbitrary Boolean algebras, such as the one you mention, also had set-based representations was solved by Marshall Stone, who put forth the maxim "always topologize" (Marshall H. Stone. The representation of Boolean algebras, 1938). 

There have been several results that extend and generalise Stone's representation in various directions. A natural question is to ask if other families of lattices have such representations. Stone's results also apply to distributive lattices. Topological representations for arbitrary lattices were given by Alasdair Urquhart in 1978. Distributive lattices enjoy greater diversity in structure, compared to Boolean algebras and are of great interest. A different representation for the distributive case was given by Hilary Priestley in 1970, using the idea of an ordered topological space. Instead of set-based representations, we can find poset-based representations and topologies. The constructions in these papers have one remarkable property. Stone's construction maps not just Boolean algebras to topological spaces: structural relationships relating Boolean algebras translate into structural properties between the resulting topologies. It is a duality between categories. The entire gamut of such results is called Stone Duality. Informally, dualities give us precise translations between mathematical universes: the combinatorial world of sets, the algebraic world of lattices, the spatial world of topology and the deductive world of logic. Here are a few starting points that may help. 

If you were do prove this by enumerating even numbers, there are infinitely many cases to consider. This statement is expressible in Presburger arithmetic. Presburger arithmetic is the first-order theory of the Natural numbers with the constants zero, one, addition, and equality. Presburger in his 1929 Masters thesis showed this theory to be decidable. There are other facts of an 'infinite' nature that can be expressed in Presburger arithmetic and proved algorithmically. Fully Automatic Theorem Proving In asking for a machine that works with no assistance, you are asking for a decision procedure. It does not make much mathematical sense to ask for a decision procedure for one conjecture. If the conjecture is either true or false, there is a a trivial decision procedure. What we do in practice is try to find a logic that can express a conjecture we care about and try to prove the logic is decidable. There are many many logical theories that are known to be decidable. Presburger arithmetic is a standard example. Another famous example is the first-order theory of real closed fields. The axiomatization provided by Tarski and his collaborators is sufficient to express statements of Euclidean geometry without measurement of angles or trignometric functions. This theory is decidable though the complexity is non-elementary. Observe again that the intuition that complexity of proving a statement depends on the cardinality of the underlying domain is quite misleading. The intuition that the complexity of automatically proving a statement corresponds with how late in our education we meet that idea is also misleading. The theory of the natural numbers with addition and multiplication is undecidable. The first order theory of real-closed fields is decidable but the proof is quite complex. The first-order theory of algebraically closed fields, which includes facts about complex numbers is also decidable. The proof for algebraically closed fields takes one or two pages in logic textbooks. To summarise, you are asking about decision procedures for logical theories. There are many of them. Interest Success of a tool and interest of the theorems are highly subjective. The value of a theorem changes over time. Theorems proved at a certain time are forgotten and rediscovered a few decades later when they are celebrated by the community. It is easy to claim a theorem significant in retrospect and put it in a textbook, but it is not easy to recognise the significance of a theorem when it is proved. There is also the matter of relevance. There is much in a model theory text book I find boring and much in an automated deduction book that a model theorist would find boring, even though we both work in the field of logic. There are decision procedures that can prove statements in textbooks. Tarski's decision procedure can prove the statements in Euclid's Elements. There are some statements in elementary number theory and linear algebra that decision procedures can prove. The company TheoryMine sells theorems. (Yes, you can now proudly go to a medieval market and barter two theorems about list reversal for a kilo of unwashed potatoes.) The techniques they use to identify interesting theorems may answer your question. Success There are many ways to define success of a theorem prover. If you're asking whether a fully automatic theorem prover has ever, entirely by itself, proved a statement that mathematicians wanted to prove, I believe there might be stray examples, but they are not considered major successes. Asking if a piece of technology can achieve the same things a human being finds interesting misses the point. It's interesting for a human being to hike up a mountain but trivial for a helicopter. The major success of automated theorem provers is proving theorems about machines. Reasoning about the correctness of a cache coherence protocol, a floating point multiplication algorithm, a device driver are all highly non-trivial problems of a scale and intricacy that our limited monkey brains cannot deal with. There is a theorem prover in the production flow of an Intel chip. There is a theorem prover shipping with Windows 7 and Windows 8 device driver kits. These theorem provers and the theorems they prove save more money and affect the daily lives of more people than most of our manually derived proofs ever will. That reeks of success to me. On The Capabilities of Theorem Provers This is in response to a question about whether there is an automatically generated proof of the infinitude of the primes (automatic, not computer assisted). I am not aware of such a proof. However, one should ask what the consequences of such a proof are. If a human being can prove this statement, I think we can conclude they know something about numbers and about proofs. The consequences of an automatic proof would be very significant. The automatic procedure would also be able to solve open problems in mathematics. The problem is that difficulty and capability are very different for human beings and for machines. To summarise, we have absolutely no illusions about what can be proved completely automatically. The goal of the field is not to replace or compete with human mathematicians. It is not surprising that a machine cannot prove what a human being can prove. It is insightful to understand that the consequences of a human being proving something are quite different from a machine automatically proving something.