These steps can be used to add items as needed to your right click menu. It should be noted that the key of the item under Shell will be the text you see within the menu. So you could for example replace with and you'll always have the option to edit any file with Notepad, or any other text editor you wish to use just by chaging the of the key to another program. 

How do I delete album art, desktop.ini, and thumbs.db from my music folder in Windows 7? I can see all of these files because I took the hard drive from my old computer and put it in my new one. It now has all of these junk files that the OS does not use, so I want to delete them and get them out of my sight. 

I have 2 columns, & . I want to iterate over the columns and sum only the corresponding value of into a certain cell within the same page. The pseudo code for this would be like: 

I have a USB Thumb Drive that I was going to use to install Windows 7 with. While formatting the drive with the Windows 7 USB/DVD download tool it failed leaving my USB drive in an unusable state. I can see the drive with the Windows Disk Manager, but it shows that it has a RAW file system, and any time I try to reformat it a second time, it simply says that It can't find the file or partition. Using DiskPart I've also not had very much luck as trying to use the command results in an error. These are the commands I'm using and their output. 

I was thinking about setting up a web server on a Raspberry Pi, RPi boots from an SD card. The server is meant to be able to be in operation for a very long time, 10 years is it's expected life span. I wanted to know if socket files used by nginx or php-fpm could cause excessive writes to the file system. or are these files held in memory and never touch the drive's file system. Some SD cards have a problem with read-write-erase cycles, and if the socket file is written to the server's file system on each interaction, could this cause a problem with the lifespan of the SD card? I plan on setting it up so that access log files are also not written at all, and error log files are emailed and never touch the file system at all. If socket files do touch the file system, the current work around would be to make a fs in ram that the socket files would be written too. 

You can use it to recharge your gadgets, but an old USB1 hub will only output max 500mA per port (according to the specs) and that means very long charging times. Additionally, newer devices won't even charge when connected to such low power connectors. But you may give it a try. 

This is basically corret, because sed appends to all lines between the first tag, but it is not what I intended. Can someone give me a hint on what I'm missing here? 

There are two possibilies here do achive your goal. First, you can start the first command in the background by simply adding an ampersand "&" at the end of the commandline: 

You could try RabbitVCS as it is created like RapidSVN but works for multiple VCS. RapidSVN works a bit static for my taste. For most cases I would look after a plugin for my IDE to work with SVN. 

However, after this modification I can can connect to the remote-network perfectly like with the routes that the cisco vpn-client added, but not to the internet. Since I do not see anything wrong with the routes, I checked out again, if cisco messed up my DNS system, but that is untouched on the WLAN interface. 

No, if your PC has no wifi-card and you don't have a wifi-usb-stick or an access point at hand, there is no chance for you to get your laptop connected to wifi. But, you can use your PC that is connected via ethernet to your router to change your settings so router enables a wifi, that your laptop can connect to - if your router has wifi-support. 

The best way to be able to help you is to know what type of netbook you had. Without knowing that, it is really hard to know if it is a bug with the drivers, the hardware or anything else. A Netbook is nothing different from a normal notebook, some vendors use spezialized hardware with different firmwares on them where drivers go mad. All in all from what you described, I would just bet that different factors summed up to get this fatal result... is it reproducible? 

Maybe the command is not installed on the SunOS System. I used the following command to zip files from SunOS: 

I'd recommend you to look for a specialized ubuntu-forum, since there you are helped more on topic than here can ever be (so I think its nice to see more and more ubuntu-questions here...) As others stated, try out Rhythmbox first, it has good support for internet-radio, can save multiple radio stations and can get more out of iradio with plugins. I for myself would hint you on banshee as alternative, which is spoken to be the successor of rhythmbox sometime, or quod-libet which is also a fine musik-player. 

First I want to start off by saying, that I am in the planning stages of this. I have bought no hardware, and everything is a possibility to ensure the success of this project while keeping convenience and portability in mind. I am looking for a solution that will allow me to have 2 RAID arrays comprised of 2x 3Tb drives each. These will be my LTRS drives. Referred to as LTRS0, first array, and LTRS1, second array. These drives are meant to store my work, music, videos, and documents from system build to system build. I want to ensure their long term integrity by placing them within RAID 1. Basically, LTRS0 will have 2 HDD of 3Tb in RAID 1, LTRS1 will have 2 HDDs of 3TB in RAID 1, but they can contain different data. I want to know what my best option is based on these requirements. Should I get a PCI(e) card that I can take from system to system as I build them, or should I get a NAS and put all of my data in that, or should I use the on board motherboard controller and just make sure I have the same controller from system build to system build? 

I've recreated the spreadsheet in Google Docs, and if you can provide an answer for Excel or Google Docs that'd be great. As far as Microsoft Office, I've looked up, SUMIF(), VLOOKUP() but the combination of these items is starting to look more like line noise then functions. I just can't quite wrap my head around it. 

Because the firewall only allows connections to the outside internet through the proxy server from port 80 and port 443, I reconfigured my SSH server to accept connections from port 443. The problem I'm seeing is that once I try an SSH connection the connection reports as connection timeout from Sublime Text when using the SFTP plugin. Using PuTTY results in an instant . Google Chrome Extension Secure Shell gives me a more detailed error of 

You can find a windows, working, compile of wget 1.13.4 here, they also seem to keep up to date windows compiles of popular GNU/Linux soft ware on this site. 

Go to your start menu (Click the Windows Orb). Type in in the search text field, and press enter. Goto . Under the key create a key called . Under create a key called . Set the value of in the Command key to be . 

After the extraction of these parts of the documentation which is easily done via sed, I want to sed the extracted file to this: 

As of my understanding, this route makes the whole thing work, since thats the route that the whole vpn-tunnel has to use this route to get the traffic out the real interface. So I thought, it shouldn't be to hard to modify the routing to get default traffic back out the real interface to the real gateway and just the traffic for the remote-network to the vpn-tunnel. I startet with deleting the default routes, then adding a new default route like it was before the vpn-connection. Then adding a specific route to the remote-network: 

This is something rather special, but I bet you can help me out. I'm working in an environment where many logfiles are generated and rotated, mainly from java-services runnning. As we are performing L&P tests on that environment, we often have the system generated more files, than are kept by logrotation. I now need a way to archive the rotated logs before they are deleted, to be able to have all logs generated during the test. But I do not have the permissions to change the logrotation in any way, so I have to do it with bash and basic UNIX tools. Additionally, since it is Load-, and Performance tests the solution needs an absolutely small footprint regarding CPU and Memory usage. First I considered using a hash like sha1sum to keep the hash and save all files that have altered, but generating and checking the hash seems somewhat time and CPU consuming. This question is not necessarily about real code, but about a concept - although a code example would be very welcome. 

From your postet cmdline I'd suggest that no substitution happened, as the command was not correct. Anyway, I'd suggest that you either first check the results by suppressing the "-i" switch, or take a backup of the file before. 

I'm working on a way to trick out cisco vpn-client by modifying the routes on the local system to achive a status thats calles split-tunneling. I know that I don't have the right to do this without the permisson of the administrator of the vpn-network and don't intend to use this. However, this is a challenge for me to better understand routing under windows, maybe even a proof of concept I could use to show some admins that relying on that checkbox in their software is of no use for security at all. Lets go, heres what i found. Its all modified to private networking adresses. The scenario is a remote worker working from his soho-network 192.168.81.0 and connecting via cisco-vpn to his companie-network 192.168.71.0. The VPN-Host for the cisco configuration is in this example modified to 192.168.10.5. The remote worker is connected to his soho-network via WLAN, his normal ip-settings while not in vpn looks like the following: