I store all my data and the most of applications (those legally available in "portable" versions) on drive and only use drive for the Windows system and some heavily integrated applications like MS Office, Visual Studio, Adobe Reader, Flash Player etc. When I was using Windows XP, 50 GiB drive was more than enough. Now, as I've mitigated to Windows 7, it hardly is. Yesterday as I've checked, 7 GiBs were free on drive . Then I've installed fresh Windows updates (which were just some tens of MiBs to download) and checked again: now there are only 2 GiBs free. Where have 5 GiBs gone? PS: Don't be surprised my system installation takes actually that much: I've got Visual Studio and SQL Server with complete offline documentation library, but that doesn't explain where does free space disappear on simple Windows updates. PPS: I use an augmented CCleaner version to clean my PC every day, so there are for sure no temporary internet files of recycle bin trash files taking the place. 

Install SSH server on your Linux machine (I usually select to install it during the system installation time, but it is easy to add later too, just run ). Install any compatible client on your Windows system (I use FileZilla). Enter your Linux system IP address, user name and password in the client to get access to your Linux system files. 

I've integrated GRUB4DOS into my Windows 7 bootloader menu using EasyBCD. It works and I can chainload to my Linux GRUB at () but I have to do it manually every time. Grub4Dos just gives me its command prompt and I have to enter 

I've just figured out the answer myself. It actually hit me while I was typing the question, but I still think it is worth posting for further reference. The solution I've found is to create an empty folder and name it 

All the computer case and peripheral devices surfaces use to get covered with fat-based dirts with time. Also there can be glue left of label stickers and other nasty things. Alcohol can do great cleaning the things but it can also damage the surface coating. What are some solvent liquids safe for plastics and substances used to cover/paint computer appliances? 

Whenever I import a book co the Calibre eBook manager library it converts the names/titles to English removing all the accents from European words and replacing non-Latin (e.g. Russian) words with their romanizations. There is no technical necessity in this in the today world of Unicode and it also harms usability as it is always easier to read (and search for) a word in its original script rater than a romanization if you are fluent in it (and I obviously am sufficiently fluent in all the languages I read books in). The checkbox allows you to turn this off for books exporting but it will still romanize the names of all the files in both the local library and the reader device library. How can romanization be possibly turned off for the libraries files names? 

What if I buy a super-duper-computer with 2 or more top-grade nVidia/ATi GPU boards and will mostly (above 80% of time) use it for simple browsing/office/coding tasks, will it consume a lot of power and produce huge amounts of heat or will it just downclock itself automatically? 

I seek to create a virtual hard drive which will be readable and writable (by the host OS, not by a VirtualMachine) as an ordinary hard drive while being stored as a single file (or a pair, maybe) on a host partition. I'd also like it to be resizable. Actual image file format doesn't really matter (but would be nice if it could be something common). I use Windows XP. Any ideas? UPDATE: Even though I've accepted an answer, I am still looking for more solutions. One another I've found and used successfully was WinMount which can mount a usual ZIP archive as a hard drive. 

I know the question of disabling UAC is quite popular and has already been asked here, but my question is more specific. What I seek is not just to get UAC out of my way but to release all the system resources it might be consuming. The question is not about the behavioral aspect of UAC but about the code running for it to work. I tend to believe that setting User Account Control settings to "Never notify" doesn't actually remove it completely - it is still, possibly, watching for the events and just ignoring them actively when it comes to. Regarding the policy-based methods I just have no idea. So, may you be a Windows expert knowing exactly what is the code behind UAC, please be so kind to tell whether or not am I right in my guess and how to implement the solution. 

I have no money to buy new RAM now and the error seems to be single so I hope I can just override it. In Linux there is a kernel parameter that can be specified in the boot loader configuration file lets to blacklist a particular RAM area easily. Perhaps there is a similar parameter parameter or other way to do the same in Windows? I am interested in both Windows 7 and XP solutions. 

As far as I understand, when I delete (without using Recycle Bin) a file, its record is removed from the file system table of contents (FAT/MFT/etc...) but the values of the disk sectors which were occupied by the file remain intact until these sectors are reused to write something else. When I use some sort of erased files recovery tool, it reads those sectors directly and tries to build up the original file. In this case, what I can't understand is why recovery tools are still able to find deleted files (with reduced chance of rebuilding them though) after I defragment the drive and overwrite all the free space with zeros. Can you explain this? I thought zero-overwritten deleted files can be only found by means of some special forensic lab magnetic scan hardware and those complex wiping algorithms (overwriting free space multiple times with random and non-random patterns) only make sense to prevent such a physical scan to succeed, but practically it seems that plain zero-fill is not enough to wipe all the tracks of deleted files. How can this be? UPDATE, addressing the questions that came up: 

I would like Chrome v.64 to forget everything (but some cookies protected by the Vanilla Cookie Manager if possible) including browsing and download history, local storage, cache etc. on every close automatically. 

There are many USB-attached BlueTooth host controllers letting a user to attach a BlueTooth device to a computer having USB ports but no integrated BlueTooth support. Does an opposite thing exist? A way to connect a conventional wired USB device to a computer having integrated BlueTooth host controller but no USB ports? 

Using different versions of Outlook with an IMAP mail account I have found how to configure Outlook 2007 to use particular folder for sent mail (but not any more). I have also found how to specify the deleted mail folder in Outlook 2010 (but not in 2007). But I'd like to choose specific sent, junk, deleted and draft mail folders. Is there a way? Perhaps a hack/patch of a sort if there is no standard way? 

Out of curiosity, is using standard built-in Microsoft Windows file and folder sharing services the only way of running a CIFS/SMB server on a Windows machine or are there alternatives (like open source Samba Win32 builds)? 

How to disable Google Chrome download bar from popping up every time I download something? I prefer to ctrl+j to see my downloads status when I actually want it, not to see a log of every thing I save all the time. 

(I have found this somewhere in the Internet and modified a little bit - changed the resoultion, the refresh rate and the output format (from VOB to bare MPG)) succesfully but the quality is still too bad. What parameters do I have to use to save as much quality as possible? Compression ratio doesn't matter at all, even increase in file size is acceptable. Anther thing I actually need (I have chosen not to include it in the question title to avoid making it too specific but I'd appreciate it being considered in the answers) is adding pure silence as a sound track - there is no sound in the original but the TV set complains about it and I'd like to get rid of this complain. I have generated a same-length (second-precise) silence OGG Vorbis file using Audacity but I can't manage to merge it with the video: 

Clicking on a link causes a browser to open it. Ctrl+clicking it causes it to open in a background tab. What I seek is to add it to bookmarks silently without opening and without asking for any user intervention. This would save me tons of nerves. Is there such an extension available for Firefox? 

The user using the computer logs-in to the Windows 7 Professional system through an Active Directory domain and has no administrative rights. I am the administrator and can give him the rights but, for obvious reasons, don't want to. The user needs to use one special application (a surveillance dashboard) that demands local administrative rights. So I need the user to be able to run this (and only this) particular application in elevated rights mode without knowing the password (I don't mind to enter and save it for this shortcut but I couldn't find such an option). And/or (both, ideally) the application to start up (elevated) after the user logs in. I understand that this is going to be a security breach anyway, but there is hardly any choice. I have tried adjusting the shortcut properties in many different way with no luck - it still asks for an administrator credentials. I have also tried experimenting with Task Scheduler but the best result I reached is the application running invisibly with no GUI shown (in all the other set-ups the task was just failing to start). Any suggestions? 

gives "buffer underflow" and "packet too large" errors. (in.mpg are the files produced by the same FFMPEG binary and the same source WMV file using the first two commands in the question). I am using a Zeranoe FFMPEG build on Windows 7. 

presence annoys me a lot as I never mean to use it but am frequently to click it accidentally (aiming to click ), which initiates an email client (which I use neither) to start coming up with account set-up dialogue. I tend to believe that I am not the only one annoyed with this and so there could be a lightweight extension to remove the annoyance. Isn't there? 

I use to browse web in a dark room and would prefer if the backgrounds would be dark and text would be light instead of the opposite which is much more common. I suppose this can be achieved with some custom CSS or JS code applied but am not a web coder and am not sure about how to do this (especially to be applicable to all the web sites). Even more awesome it would be if there were an extension to install and get just the effect needed. Any suggestions? 

If Windows XP "welcome screen" is disabled (manually or by joining a domain) an ordinary window is used to log-in (like it was in Windows 2000). This window is styled with default Windows XP "Luna" theme (blue window title, etc). All theme customizations (including turning them off at all to use plain Win2000/98 window style) are normally applied after a user logs-in. How can I alter this? I'd like either to turn off visual styles at all or to apply "Zune" styling to BEFORE a user logs in (and it'd be good to use the same settings as default for new users created). 

As far as I know, the only con against switching to an SSD except its price is the tendency to fail soon (relatively to conventional HDDs) in case used in active read-write operation. Is there an efficient way to predict the failure? 

When I roll the mouse scroll wheel in VLC, the volume changes. But it changes too rapidly: like 83%-70%-58% Can I change the step used like to 1-5% at a time? 

I have found the answer myself, so let me share it for further reference: There are Win32 versions of Samba and smbclient available. This smbclient version works just fine on Windows 7 32-bit and lets you to access Windows shares from command line without mounting then as network drives. The only problem is it requires cygwin to be installed. UPDATE: Another problem is that I am still fighting with codepages... UPDATE2: I have managed to figure out (experimentally) the correct codepages configuration for international non-ASCII setup, this is my smb.conf file that makes it work perfectly: 

All I need WiFi for is to share a 10 Mbit/s ADSL Internet connection. The apartment is not very convenient for WiFi signal distribution (there are numerous WiFi networks in the area, many wifi clients, many walls and the area is quite wide (but the signal is still tolerable so don't suggest adding more access points)) and I tend to limit (in the router settings) the WiFi speed with 11 Mbit/s standard rate to add stability by getting rid of connection rate retrains. Also I have a choice of , , , and modes. What is better to choose here in case I neither need speeds higher than those supported by all of them nor extended compatibility (well, extra compatibility won't harm if removing it adds no profit)? I usually disable or even but I am not sure I am right - perhaps they have got some stability improvements too (rather than of speed alone), I don't know their internals so I ask: What are other pros and cons of 802.11b, 802.11g and 802.11n WiFi standards on the same standard rates when using same hardware (supporting all of them)? Prologue: About 7 years ago, when there were no , but only , and , I was very impressed with an experience I've got - while modern USB-attached WiFi NICs could hardly sense any signal (they were able to establish a very bad connection from time to time but only to loose it in a matter of minutes or even seconds) in a distant room separated by thick metalized walls, an old PCMCIA-attached (or , I can't remember) card was able to maintain quite stable connection there and even in a more distant room.