Two things. First, make sure that the content database is set to online (Central Admin -> Web applications -> Content Databases) and not offline. When offline user name changes do not propagate. Since you said this is MOSS, make sure your SSP user profiles are set to synchronize on a schedule (they are not by default). Set a schedule if not set up. You can also try to force a user profile synchronization them by running 

In Group Policy Management Editor, edit the target GPO Go to Computer Configuration\Preferences\Control Panel Settings\Power Options In the right pane, right click and select New -> Power Plan (At least Windows 7) In the Advanced settings tab, select the Create action Enter a new plan name (e.g. "Don't lock") Select Set as the active power plan Expand Display -> Turn off display after Change On battery (minutes) to 0 Change Plugged in (minutes) to 0 Click Apply, OK Apply the GPO to the target machine(s) 

Question: Given the error I suspect the issue is related to the trust and Kerberos, but I'm not clear what I can do to resolve. Should I be setting an SPN for DOMAIN\myadmin or SERVERB? Is there something else I can try? 

Open the site in Firefox with enabled Firebug. It'll show you, on which file it hangs. For each file it shows dns resolve time and download time. Watch output and look for excessive load, memory consumption, etc. Enable harder logging of php (E_WARNING at least) and look into php error log Enable slow log in MySQL and look for slow SQL queries. 

I prefer Mikrotik RouterBoard. RB450G is powerful, easy to maintain and price is very decent. At home I use RB433AH with 3 miniPCI wireless cards. 

This will drop ALL communication no matter which process tried to start it. Then you can start playing with and to find, which process does the bad stuff on your precious machine: 

Anything except "connection timeout" will reveal, that you can connect to your laptop's stream. If you don't have public IP address, or you can't NAT port, you have to do it the other way around. You can SSH from laptop to server and remote forward your laptop port to server. The correct SSH command would be: 

stsadm -o backup and stsadm -o restore. This moves site collections and not sites. Lots of people are talking about sites when they really mean site collections. This is usually the easiest method and can move data at a rate of about 15 GB/hr. If your site is the only site in the site collection, this is your best bet. stsadm -o export and stsadm -o import. This moves sites. Not as easy to use as backup/restore, but does the trick. There are gotchas when it comes to permissioning, so make sure the site is accessible as expected after the move. You cannot import a site into a site collection where it already exists (which shouldn't be a problem in your case). You will need to make sure all customizations (templates, web parts, features, solutions) are deployed to the new site collection you are importing into otherwise it's error time. stsadm -o mergecontentdb. This can move a site collection from one database to another. This seems more complex at first, but is easier to use than backup/restore. This moves a site collection within a farm. Create a new content database and move it to the new db, detach, and reattach the database in the other installation (farm). stsadm -o gl-moveweb part of Gary Lapointe's stsadm extensions (every farm should have this installed). This moves a site within a farm. (gl-movesite moves a site collection). Most 3rd party SharePoint backup applications have a feature to backup/restore a site to another farm. 

In the output of the command above, there are some cryptic values like CI,OI,I,FULL,... Great explanation of these values is here: $URL$ 

I have a Debian 8 with Samba 4 as a AD domain member. The DC is Windows Server 2008. The shares are able to handle Windows permissions - I use IDMAP backend = rid, since I cannot add uidNumber and gidNumber to AD account record. I can display and set ACL permissions with and , but the R-W-X settings cannot set fine-grade Windows permissions (take ownership, read attributes, set permissions, full control...) So, is there a possibility to manage (or at least show) advanced Windows permissions of shared file/folder from Linux? The point is, I would like to make a script, which periodically checks all shared files, if they have the permissions I would like to have them. And alert, if something is wrong, so it would be some type of live documentation check of desired privileges. 

If you want powerful router, I would recommend Mikrotik ($URL$ It's not that easy to setup, since you have to know how subnetting, firewall and other related stuff works. But it will allow much better debugging of network in comparsion to DD-WRT (personal opinion!). And it fits to your use case, if providing of internet connection to bunch of flats in building is what you want to accomplish. I would every user (ethernet port) assign VLAN id - on switch port define PVID, which is default VLAN assigned to packet with no VLAN id. Port to router will be trunk of all VLANs and so the port on router. In router allow only connection between vlan and internet interface, so communication between users will be droped. And if some users would like to communicate between themselves (gaming, warezing) there is no problem to add rules to firewall. Last note about "two users communicates": You can merge them to one VLAN, so data will flow only thru switch, thus saving router upload bandwidth, OR they can stay in different VLANs and you will enable desired communication on firewall. Second approach allows better control, but consumes lot of router bandwidth, thus you should think about QoS. 

I set this as the active power plan, and applied the GPO. After 25 minutes the machines are no longer automatically locking. Here are the full steps for creating this: 

Navicat for MySQL (there are also Oracle and PostgreSQL versions too). Not free though. US$179 for the downloadable version ($189 for the CD). Highly recommended for all MySQL DBAs and developers using MySQL. There is a trial version available as well. 

On Windows Server 2008, it is event ID 5136 (Directory Service Changes). See also event IDs 5137 (create), 5138 (undelete), 5130 (move). Event ID 4662 contains the old-style audit event (see below). On Windows 2000 Server and Windows Server 2003: 

The RMS blog has a post about issues/workarounds when installing SSL with RMS (note this is for RMS for Windows Server 2003): 

If I provide a credential object containing a user in the DOMAINDMZ domain, the error goes away and the scriptblock executes as expected: 

(I swear I didn't reuse the screen shots) You'll notice that A-SQL2 still points to the hostname, that is, it wasn't updated with the new server name. I completed setting up SQL Server and then attempted to connect using both aliases. A-SQL1: and A-SQL2: A-SQL1 works as it points to localhost and A-SQL2 doesn't as it now points to the old hostname and was not updated as part of the sysprep. 

I manage VMware ESXi 4.0 server running mix of Windows virtual machines. I've installed VMware vSphere CLI in hope to pause/resume virtual machine and copy its image to NFS datastore. I've got CLI up and running, I can list datastores, registered machines, configuration and etc, but when i try to start machine with: 

Hmm seems to me, that admin.api.frapi is the "default", because it's in the highest position in directory. Try to rename file default to 000-default. More info: nginx walks thru sites-enabled alphabetically. If there is no virtual host config for desired hostname (given from HTTP request), nginx takes the first file. 

I inherited non-activated Windows Server 2012 Standard. So I purchased retail version "OEM Win Svr Std 2012 R2 x64 CZ 1pk DVD 2CPU / 2VM" and tried to activate it with product key. With this key, I get an error "This key cannot be validated. Try a different one" (loosely translated, my system is Czech). And I am pretty sure, that I put in the right key. I cannot start validation over phone, command gives me only activation by key. Direct phone calls to Czech Microsoft gets me nowhere. At one occasion I got error "0x8007232b" which relates to $URL$ . As far as I understand, there could be broken KMS Client. I don't use activation via KMS Host in the infrastructure. Tried to google how to get rid of it, but didn't find out how. It isn't "Function", "Role" or software... Thanks for any help, Martin PS: Not that it should matter, but this system is virtual machine in KVM 

On the suggestion of checking the Power Management settings by @joeqwerty I created a new Power Plan with the following settings: 

I want to sysprep a Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1 machine that has SQL Server 2008 R2 SP1 installed (for reference, SQL Server 2008 R2 has a new sysprep feature that allows the instance to be sysprepped). On the server is a SQL Server client alias that points to the default SQL Server database engine instance. For reference, the alias is called Alias-SQLServer and has been configured in both 32-bit and 64-bit cliconfig versions (that is, both registry keys exist) The alias points to the local instance as the image will be used to create development VMs and the installation script for the application that is being developed will use the SQL Server client alias in order to generalize the installation scripts. I can't seem to find information about whether the sysprep tool will update the SQL Server client alias's registry keys with the server's new name once it's unsealed. My guess is that it is not; how is sysprep to know that the server name the alias points to will be different for each image? Right? Perhaps if the alias points to localhost instead of the server name this will work? 

Which is the first part of VLC command to connect to webcam. For more details follow the mentioned HOWTO. Especially look at "video group" part and correct device path to /dev/video and /dev/audio. Those can be different on your laptop. Transcode video to FLV. I personally use FLV, since it is less CPU demanding. Transcode string I use is this: 

It depends on amount of traffic you want to shape. From your parameters of internet connection I assume that you work in a small company (up to 10 employees?). In this case, router, firewall and shaper could be one device, for example from Mikrotik. Or homemade linux configuration, which gives you extensibility for the future. Regards, Martin 

Display stream on web Displaying the stream on web, which will work in most cases, is via flash player. I tried two products, which are free for non-commercial usage: JW Player and Flowplayer. I stayed with Flowplayer, but I don't remember the reason, maybe because of plugins (which I don't use:) ) or because of better documentation. How to display FLV stream from VLC in web page is covered here: Stream VLC to Website with asf and Flash Troubleshooting Be aware of many problems that WILL arise. First thing, as in everything, read. VLC is very chatty program, so it will tell you where the problem is. Could be problem with permissions to access the video/audio device, missing codecs, misspelled --sout parameters,... Learn to use to see if the data really flows thru network, etc. 

I've done a few hours of research and I've yet to find anything that has worked. Is there is another setting that controls this behavior? Edit: output from gpresult /v: 

My question is similar to Powershell Remoting: One way trust, however there are differences and the resolution (adding the server to the trusted list) does not work for me. Scenario: I have two domains. DOMAIN and DOMAINDMZ. DOMAIN has an incoming trust from DOMAINDMZ. That is DOMAINDMZ trusts DOMAIN, but not vice versa. I have an administrative user who is a member of the Administrators local group on several servers in the DOMAINDMZ domain: , , , etc. I can log into these servers with DOMAIN\myadmin from the console or RDP. I am attempting to log into SERVERA and run a PowerShell script on SERVERB using PowerShell remoting. Remote Management is enabled on SERVERB. I start an elevated PowerShell session on SERVERA, and then attempt to use the cmdlet. I receive the following error: 

You may need to use the ADScpRegister utility from (included wtih RMS for Windows Server 2008, located in "C:\Program Files\RMS SP2 Administration Toolkit" ) to re-register the the URL: Here is a guide for installing RMS on Windows Server 2008, that discusses the ADScpRegister utility. 

Access on test.example.com and test.example.com:10522 will be treated in the same VirtualHost and both will be seen as port 80. But it's not clear from your question if it is what you want to accomplish. Not even what operating system you use. And what do you mean with "10522 is another webserver"? EDIT AFTER CLARIFICATION OF ANSWER: There can be at least two ways how to do it in Apache 

As you can see, only two processes communicate via HTTP with some servers - iceweasel and spotify. The last column is [process_number]/[process_name]. With this, you can query and get the actual process: 

I'm not familiar with MS Exchange, but for me it would be more natural connect to server via IMAP and walk thru inbox directly. Because I don't think that running developed application on the same email server is good idea (which is mandatory for accessing files). And sharing folder with text emails to be accessible from network? Not a good idea either.. Regards, Martin. 

Digest from : Archive old versions of log files adding a daily extension like YYYYMMDD instead of simply adding a number.