Imaging should certainly be an option. Linux would be a better one. Having windows "just work" is a bit optimistic at the best of times. - Back up your stuff. - boot live linux of your choice - - use your partitioning tool of choice to expand the partition to fill the disk - boot new drive, let windows cry about it. You may need to run "recovery options", chkdsk etc. 

$URL$ Thanks for the edit. you need to escape the entire string not just the @ charcter. - use single quotes inside double quotes 

reboot in windows and you should be able to have your way with it. or just delete it. If you can be bothered trying to get your head around windows syntax, might work. Not being a windows user, I couldn't tell you how. 

The card reader will be on the system's USBus. If you can't boot from USB then you can't boot from an sd card. Unless your device is very old, I would be surprised that it can't boot from USB, and therefore an sd card. 

If you don't want to use port forwarding, you have to change the routing on somehow. If you don't have access to , then you need to route the traffic from the default gateway of to the VPN. One possibility is to route traffic for the VPN from the default gateway to . This only works if you use a different subnet at the location of the macbook than the one used between and If you use some type of router with your macbook you probably also have a 192.168.. subnet there. For this setup you don't use the previous script. You still need 

This script accepts , and and can be used in rc.d as a run-level script on is the VPN interface. This will disallow any traffic between the subnet and the VPN except for the ports explicitely opened (3389 in this example). You don't have to disallow all other forwarding, but I would recommend it. This will also forward access to to . 

Up to Keynote' 06 the file was actually a folder 1 like you mentioned. However, later the format is used and this is a zip file. 2 ZIP files are not a good format to be diffed, but you can add unzip as a diff handler in git. You can also save the presentation in the old format. If svn still thinks the file is binary, you can use or . Files with no mime-type are treated as text files by subversion. 3 

Windows install media (DVD/USB) should have recovery tools to re-write the MBR. I imagine you will want the one from your latest OS (Vista) 

All versions of windows slow down over time. Using windows tools to "rollback" is unlikely to actually DO that, rather it will just break and re-link things to give the appearance of it. Your best bet for backups/security/archives is to do a clean install on a zeroed drive, install drivers, update system, install known good programs, then IMAGE the partition. If you need to restore for any reason, wipe the partition and reload the image to it. 

The error tells you clearly. You Need an MSDOS MBR. you said when installing W98 but error message is headed ME? You say "The Size of each one is correct" - list them? W95 and FAT16 is limited to 2GB partitions, and generally 512mb RAM without hacks While 98, FAT32 is theoretically capable of 2TB. Win 98 shares similar memory issues. Both require IDE connections, without drivers (which may not exist) So check that VBox controller is IDE. (I assume it is if 95 booted). Also 95/98 will never run on x64. Suggest 

Previously the fingerprint was given as a hexed md5 hash. Starting with OpenSSH 6.8 the fingerprint is now displayed as base64 SHA256 (by default). You can't compare these directly. They also added a new configuration option . You can put 

The first symbol is for normal key press, the second with shift. You can use xmodmap in your startup scripts. The symbol for is . Keycode for is on my (german) layout 94. You can find out what the keycode for your keys is with . It will open a small box and you see the keypress (and mouse) events in the terminal. 

This only works if there is no 192.168.. local subnet already present for the macbook! On the default gateway of (route to VPN over ): 

Hopefully server admins provide both types of fingerprints in the near future. EDIT: As given in the Arch Linux forums, there is also a third option: 

Since you don't have control over you have to create a port forwarding on for every port you want access at PC B. On debian you should forward ports using . I have a similar setup with a opensuse machine that forwards RDP on over the VPN. This would be on . 

Question possibly to be migrated to a parenting forum. Unplug the PSU from the wall, and the computer. Take it with you. When he "needs" it, he asks nicely and you sit and watch. If you have tenacity, he will get bored with this game before you and ask what he can do so you'll just leave him alone. Sand boxing doesn't block content, or account creation. Windows has implemented some kind of account heirachy but configuring it is likely going to be more of a headache for you than it is worth (and he will probably circumvent it anyway.) He shouldn't need admin rights for anything, "power user" should do. Specific access can be configured through gpedit.msc and lusrmgr.msc. You will need to go through those to suit your situation. If you don't require pornography, your best bet would be to block it at the router level (if your firmware supports it, or alternatively route all his traffic through a filternig DNS). You can also filter his network adapters by MAC address for time-restrictions. And as long as you set a decent password on the router he can't get around it, short of buying his own or using the neighbour's wifi. 

Of course, since the internal subnet addresses of and are not given by the question, I can't give the exact routing information either. 

EDIT: You can generate the hash of an arbitrary key as given on the OpenSSH Cookbook: Retrieve the key: 

Using systemctl rather than just should "more future proof", though. The order is important. _setup depends on _init. 

(same as ) How to setup routing depends on the OS on the default gateway and your macbook. In general it works like this: On macbook (route to ): 

In general, maximizing the RAM is a good option for old PCs. Less general: having 512 MB of RAM is the absolute minimum these days. Using Windows XP, firefox and OpenOffice is most of the time enough to use all available RAM. How to find out if you need more RAM Open up the Task Manager (CTRL+ALT+DEL), and check the RAM usage. If there is not much free RAM left already, you really need to upgrade RAM. If this is not the case, start a couple of programs you might want to use (at the same time). If you still have a lot of free RAM left, then you don't need more RAM. If you say your machine starts lagging, then you quite probably need more RAM. Rationale RAM only makes your computer faster if it is used. If your system uses 2 GB of RAM at maximum, 4 GB will not make it any faster. However, if you have 512 MB of RAM and your programs would need 1 GB, then you start swapping/paging. That is: part of the Memory is written and read from hard disk. As the hard disk is a lot slower excessive swapping/paging can bring the whole machine to a crawl. So if you are out of RAM often, then more RAM is the first thing you should upgrade on your machine (or try using programs that use less RAM). 

You are probably looking for something like "synaptics pointing" package from your distro's repo. Then use your desktop environment's tools to configure it. 

Possible: yes Easy: probably not. I have booted windows disk images via qemu, so nothing is impossible. Linux will be more tolerant of booting in different environments (virtualised vs native) and as long as the libs are there for each, it shouldn't cause too much trouble. Your best bet would be to hypervisor both windows and *nix. Alternatively if you want to "try before you buy" - write a copy of your nix partition to an ISO () or duplicate it to a vdi with your software of choice, and try booting that. More directed help could be found if you specify what emulation software you are using (Virtualbox, ie), and whether your CPU supports nested paging or virtualisation. 

I would be inclined to scrap the flag altogether and hand and see what happens. A workaround would be to then use your tool of choice to convert the .img to .cow or .vmdk