FETs are not required to connect 2Ks, they are far cheaper than SFPs and for some odd reason (to me) you can only order them when you order 2ks. As Ricky said you are going to see a non standard Ethernet encapsulation but that is a matter of does wireshark support it. Cisco will be happy to take the extra $$s for SFP+ 

The google search indicates the UTM appears to be a firewall. While you could get say a cheap router/firewall put it on a shelf and if the UTM dies physially replace it, that seems a bad idea as that boxes are not functionally equivlant. This is a form of redundancy though a static kind, as mentioned in the comment. Net of this is that if you need the firewall function you need a duplicate physical box. MAYBE you can 'limp along' with a less expensive spare box while you wait for your replacement firewall but that is a business call. Lastly most people here will tell you that your ISP connection will fail far more often than your hardware and that is what you need to make redundant first. 

I cannot speak for anyone else but I do a TOR 8 to 16 port 'terminal server' that is connected to a management Ethernet, we do not try to use the structured cable to bring them to a central set of terminal servers. We then test as part of the turn up. We also home run the cables, as it is less likely that someone will disconnect one in error and you don't know that the cabling is wrong till you really need it. Unless you have on site people you really trust, I would not try to save $$s on this. 

If you use securecrt (and if you dont want to get into too much shell scripting) for your telnet/ssh/console access you can always "record" your commands, it has an option and then you can simply select your recorded script in tools I believe it is 

Calculating GRE IPSec Tunnel Mode Overhead Point to Point GRE IPSEC I would say refer to this article to get more information: I set one up the other day with 2 ciscos - just remove the IPSec stuff from your config, but as I said > lower the MTU on both sides to match (and you should really implement IPSEC) 

The 2960X utilises a similar IOS as previous 2960 switches in terms of commands. The only differences come from the different IOS images - this depends on the feature sets and how much you pay. You will also find that you can add more than 1 SVI on the newest series too. (Up to 3 depending on the feature set of your IOS image (which can be nifty for a management vlan) As for your fears, no, the newer series of 2960X is not running the same OS as the equivalent Linksys small business switch line CLI. Here are some common questions and answers re: the new 2960X series. $URL$ 

The MAC address is seen only by the two segments connected to each other. So, Google would not be able to see you MAC address. Furthermore, it is appropriate that your firewall would ARP with it's MAC address for the .254 address, because all devices need to first go through the firewall before they can reach the ISP gateway. If 192.168.1.10 saw the real ARP address for 192.168.1.254, then you would wind up with either a loop, the firewall dropping that traffic or your firewall being rendered useless. 

Your router knows where to route traffic because it maintains a table of stateful connections which are source IPaddress:port and destination IPaddress:port relationships. These are established based on your firewall rules, NAT policies, and a few other settings (like TCP and UDP timeout). There are 4 possible states: NEW, RELATED, ESTABLISHED and INVALID. Based on your firewall rules, your firewall determines what state a connection should be in. So typically, you can make NEW connections outbound by default, but only RELATED or ESTABLISHED connections are allowed inbound if you create a NAT or PAT rule and matching firewall policy to allow this. Then, either based on the rules you have configured (for the case of a NEW connection) or the existing connection table (for the case of an ESTABLISHED connection) a packet will be allowed or disallowed through. Furthermore, an [ARP] table is maintained which helps to firewall to know what physical MAC address an IP address corresponds to. 

If your problem is that you have two sites/business parters etc that have separate Internet ASes you can connect them together NOT through the Internet but over a VPN or private link. You have a couple of things to watch for if the address spaces are also advertised via the internet relate to administrative distance and prefix matching. BGP is preferred for many reasons, and you have to use it to talk over the internet. A little more on your use case assuming it is not entirely theoretical would help. At the end of the day there is no law that prevents you from using an IGP. But remember that any network vendor is in the business of selling you rope, what you do with the rope... 

You probably want to be polling the CAM/MAC tables, that would have the MAC address of any devices send any traffic through the switch. ARP is L3 CAM/ARP is L2 

Each VLAN creates its own broadcast domain in 1 or more physical switches. If you have a switch taken out of the box it tends to put all ports in vlan 1 so for say a 24 ports the broadcast domain includes all 24 ports. If you were to create a vlan 2 and configure half the ports to be members of vlan 2 you then have 2 broadcast domains each of 12 ports. if you create a vlan 3 and put half the ports that are still in vlan 1 in it you would end of with 3 broadcast domains 2 with 6 ports and 1 with 12. 

Often you have to set the MTU to 1440 or less from memory to allow the GRE header through to the other site> very useful and easy to understand (not a 100 page whitepaper either) 

Agree with the above statements, also know that every vendor fudges their stats a little bit. ie Enable PAT, simple firewall rules, access control lists, QOS and you will find these numbers can even halve some of the time - this is often due to the processing capacity of a network device and every service running on a network device requires a certain amount of CPU resources. PPS and BPS arent always the best stats to use. When considering your upgrade, see what you are currently utilising. SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) can help you achieve this. Have room for growth by upgrading your environment to achieve less than %50 bandwidth on the current network utilisation on the new device and less than %40 CPU usage. 

If you knew the SNMP string for each device on the network, you could automate pulling the configuration from each network device. If you are talking about discovering routes, I would suggest enabling a dynamic routing protocol, having that device learn the network routes and use a in cisco in junos etc. As for learning or centrally managing the network from one device, I would suggest a cloud solution such as Cisco's new Merakai platform. This would automate what you are talking about from one device using SDN (software Define Networking). 

I use routers for my remote office ethernets because since I do not buy line rate 'CIR' I need to traffic shape. Switches don't do that. Router QoS is also easier to deal with because switch QoS has lots of hardware dependencies. 

The switch keeps an arp cache like any host. One reason for having an arp cache and using it is when you have non routed subnets (like oracle RAC clusters) so you may not want to put an SVI on the L3 switch (I will run a direct connection between the two switches involved in the NIC team only allow the non routed vlans over it) and put SVIs in the switch for the address space so I can ping the heartbeat interfaces. Then look at the arp table then can find with switch port, easier then getting an ifconfig from the server. It is true that in general the SVI in a switch is just used for management so the only arp entry is for the default gateway, but in certain configurations using multiple SVIs and exploiting ARP can be a great help. 

The idea if not use ECMP if HSRP is in use may be ok for SERVERS where ingress traffic may be higher than egress traffic, in a PC situation IN GENERAL ingress traffic from the WAN (responses) is higher than egress traffic (ingress). We like most people just set the ARP timers. you can mess with CAM timers BUT if you have say an MDF with the layer 3 switch and an IDF with 2 collection switches and say 5 access switches, it is a LOT easer to configure on the L3 SVI than doing all access switches.