There is only so much you can do with bash. However for TUI progarms you can do pretty much everything you need with ncurses. $URL$ There are wrappers over the C functions provided by curses; if you’re already familiar with curses programming in C. 

From the logs you can see the the session is timing out. That's why your transfer gets aborted. Increase the timeout value. 

As detailed @ $URL$ Search for files in /target_directory and all its sub-directories, that have been modified in the last 60 minutes: 

All these commands so far only print out the locations of files that are matched. You can also get detailed file attributes of recently modified files, using "-exec" option as follows. To search for files in /target_directory (and all its sub-directories) that have been modified in the last 60 minutes, and print out their file attributes: 

This will permit hosts by IP address that match IP ranges specified in $mynetworks. In the main.cf you posted, $mynetworks was set to 127.0.0.1, so it will only relay emails generated by the server itself. Based on that configuration, your mail client will need to use SMTP Authentication before being allowed to relay messages. I'm not sure what database SASL is using. That is specified in /usr/lib/sasl2/smtpd.conf Presumably it also uses the same database as your virtual mailboxes, so you should be able enable SMTP authentication in your mail client and be all set. 

TLS just enables encryption on the smtp session and doesn't directly affect whether or not Postfix will be allowed to relay a message. The relaying denied message occurs because the smtpd_recipient_restrictions rules was not matched. One of those conditions must be fulfilled to allow the message to go through: 

The issue persists. I have also tried other solutions, like changing the following into the solrconfig.xml: 

The optimal process involves many tools that can give you a detailed view over the server. The more informations you can get, from different sources, the easy will be to identify the cause. You can check the logs for any problems that occurs during the time when this happens. As well, some basic informations are available in Munin. As well, you can install NewRelic to have a more clear picture over the process list and I/O status during the high load. This will show you which project caused the high load. As well, you can check logstash for logs or logentries You mention that you also use well known frameworks. Check if you are allocating enough RAM for them. I presume that most of them use a database. Is the DB server installed on the same machine? Is it on a dedicated machine? Are you using any sort of caching (Varnish, APC, etc..) ? 

Using the command I was trying to figure out why remote port forwarding wasn't working until I realized was not present in my host's sshd_config. Once I added that, it worked successfully. Is there a way I could have diagnosed this? The SSH even output the following (without ): 

However when I browse to $URL$ it's serving pages from /var/www/ instead of /home/chris/Projects/web/testsite. What am I doing wrong? 

I really don't understand the purpose of this variable - what exactly is the purpose of it? To prevent the exhaustion of ram? It seems ineffective as each request could use a variable amount of ram up to the maximum. If I need to process requests that take in memory, and request that takes of memory concurrently. Does this mean if I only have () of memory available, I should set the max_children to - because potential requests could exhaust the memory if they were both using ? This configuration has a limitation in that I can't process requests even if they would only use each. What happens to a new connection once the php-fpm server reaches it's ? Does it return a 502 for the new connection? 

Search for files in /target_directory and all its sub-directories, that have been modified in the last 2 days: 

This caused different errors, so I rolled back to (the above part is now commented out. I have compared the configuration files with an environment that works and they look identical. Thank you. 

Strictly to your question: 1) yes 2) have a look at the log files for those services under /var/log . The second part of the question depends on what you will find in the log files and trace the cause of this behaviour. 3) you can use monit -> $URL$ From the website: 

You can also specify the range of update time. To search for files in /target_directory and all its sub-directories, that have been modified in the last 7 days, but not in the last 3 days: 

Why might this be occuring? These are all values that I've previously set. Should I get in contact with the domain provider? 

Can this be done in a simple manner using the management console alone? My current approach is to go through each volume and check the "attachment information". But it's quite a tedious approach. 

If the binary is available on the container, you can transfer files using the new command. $URL$ Though possibly not as efficient as rsync. 

I've been lucky in that I can do this based on the response code (404) and by intercepting the error: 

This caching is only required on the upstream repsponses with a 404 status code. It can keep the original header and pass this on to the client, but I don't want it sending a 'fresh' request to the page. I also don't want to remove the header entirely as some of the requests would have a appropriate 'cache control' header set to expire in for example 24h. Hence I can't use . 

This will cause postfix to look in /etc/postfix/filtered_domains for rules based on the recipient address. (Judging by the file name on the file name, it is probably just blocking specific domains... Check to see if gmail.com is listed in there?) 

permits authenticated senders through SASL. This will be necessary to authenticate users outside of your network which are normally blocked. 

For really detailed debugging, I'll sometimes do a tcpdump and pull that back into ethereal to examine the exact SMTP session that took place. 

As mentioned by others, having some connections in TIME_WAIT is a normal part of the TCP connection. You can see the interval by examining /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_fin_timeout: 

While running top, you can press M (capital m) to sort by memory usage. You can watch for what is using the most memory there. If Apache is the problem, you can work around memory leaks by setting or lowering the MaxRequestsPerChild parameter. This will kill off an Apache worker process after it has processed the specified number of requests.