As for the restriction about what their names can be, since it's not very convenient to use enum, then I'd suggest using a plain text file of comma separated values, added in the classpath. For example a file in the directory could look like: 

Ideally, class should be itself the , but since Drools seem to rely on POJOs and, the constructor for can't be made private, I think this is an acceptable compromise. With this, there probably won't be a need to have separate rule for validating unless there are expected, more complex checking. Also, since the application is checking an external file for values, there isn't a need to recompile or rebuild the code when a new Move like Jedi is introduced into the system. As for the rules on game proper, I'd say they should have been applied to a and not to separate players. The system doesn't even seem to be interested enough in Players to give them names like "Player 1", or "Player 2"; they merely carry a Move in them. A contains 2 objects, each from 2 opponents. The fact that there is a class seems to suggest there should have been a class to begin with. 

Again, is it worth it? Sometimes the clever thing is not to be too clever, and keeping it simple beats trying to make it pretty. 

It compiles, since ᒿ != 2. But it won't work for every digit - see $URL$ if you want to try. Even if it did, I wouldn't recommend doing this in production code :) All in all it's a fun thought exercise, trying to find a workaround and kind of trick C# into doing something it's designed not to. But the truly elegant way is to embrace the language the way it is, and not try to hammer square pegs into round holes. If you were hell-bent on using extension methods, at the cost of being unable to rule out illegal values in compile-time, here's make take on it - more heavy-weight, but providing type and conversion safety. I did it for the heck of it, I know it's not the perfect solution. It resembles @radarbob's answer in that it puts extension methods to use. Let's define the basics (it can all go into one static class): 

If we're speaking of actual efficiency (as in performance) though, I don't know how much more efficient pattern matching is compared to iteration of characters. However, this is much more readable. In any case, notice that the actual translation logic is wrapped inside the condition that the input string does not contain a number. This way, you return from the method as soon as you determine the input is unacceptable. To check whether the input string starts with a vowel, you can also use pattern matching like: 

Normally, I do this for methods I have yet to implement while I work on specified methods one by one. 

I'm not really sure, but somehow I feel like this can be an instance of a refused bequest, or some sort of breach of contract. I think you have few options here: 

be it a constant, or a collection computed in run-time, doesn't really matter. And then it gets as simple as that: 

These switches are identical. It bloats the codebase and hurts readability and maintanability. Aim for code reuse instead. In this particular case, you could create a method converting factors (expressed as 1, 2, 3 etc.) into actual values (0.001m, etc.) and call it twice in your code, cutting down on needless repetition. Nesting constructs isn't good practice, either - it's not very readable. Try to refactor your code into methods. Having the entirety of your program in is not recommended. Also, as @Michael has already pointed out, you're not validating user input at all. One typo and your app will crash, or fail to work as expected. 

This way, you have more control over the internal state of a given class within the context of a given method, while limiting the method's behavior to something that's more specific. It also makes the code a little more traceable in that if there is no requirement that says a completed can go back to being non-completed, you don't have to enable such state transition. I think it's also somehow more "poetic" to have an invocation like compared to . 

Hopefully the class illustrates my point about classes being in charge of their own state, actions, etc. Lastly, about , I will also say that this class is weak, and overly transparent. My idea is that once a object is created, it will never change. Because of this, I think that should be defined this way: 

You have not implemented exception handling (the last requirement). Eg. if calling code passes to or , it won't crash straight away, but as soon as you call , it will result in an unhandled once it gets to this null "fruit". Also note that we don't know what calling code may pass in as an argument - could be some object that implements one of the interfaces, but actually explodes once our code calls its or ... The requirement states that it's the responsibility of this code to handle exceptions, so if this was my homework, I'd prefer to be on the safe side here. Less importantly, you implemented as a property of rather than a field (which is what the description asks for), although public fields actually are considered a bit of a code smell, and a backing field is automatically created for properties, so I would leave it. Aiming at good code style you could make it immutable though (as a field, or a property with a private setter), and set it in the constructor - it stands to reason that name of a given fruit isn't subject to change. and could be too, but that's nitpicking already. Apart from the lack of exception handling, it seems okay to me. I like that you used some modern C# features to cut down on verbosity. 

I don't know what field represents, but I kept it. However, due to the fact that it's not readily understandable, you should reconsider why it's there in the first place. In any case, notice that there are only getters for this class, and no setters. This is because, like I said, objects most likely won't need to change, there's no point enabling the state transitions in them. Rules Integration I missed a critical aspect of the problem you're trying to solve with your code, which is the rules engine primarily geared towards not-so-technical people. However, I still think that having those rules in the system does not mean we should completely forget about good OO design. I believe that rules should augment your design, not hijack it. Since having a enum is quite restrictive, my idea is to define it instead as a value object: 

As explained in comments (in which I pointed out a few possible edge cases), even though it's not optimized in terms of performance, this is about as clear as it gets. A more clever algorithm - calculating the number of weekdays without iterating through all of them - is probably possible, but I bet it would be much less readable. If performance isn't a concern at this point, I'd leave it. You could maybe replace the loop with a LINQ-based solution. 

And again this is subjective, but I see these as a (common) anti-pattern. It's code, not a painting or a poem ;) We've got version control systems for that. 

without the constants and the converting them to their respective classes? What value do you feel this additional abstraction layer adds to the code? (If you got rid of it, you'd only need implemented as follows: 

Hopefully there's a way to make this work both ways. Anyway, I don't expect to get everything correctly here, but I hope somehow I raised interesting points regarding your code structure, and domain design 

Conceptual Framework for Domain Model In your application, there's a rule imposed (via your Drools XML) that there is a fixed set of values to a 's move. My opinion here is that your domain model should reflect that requirement, and seeing as you have generics in your code, your application should also be able to support Java enum. I think it's better to capture this restriction on valid moves by creating an enum called like the following: 

My personal view in methods like this is that instead of making them setters/mutators, you turn them into actions/features. So instead of having a that takes a from a client component, I think it would be a bit more sensible to have something like: 

from (minus the case sensitivity discrepancy). Unless there are some good reasons not to do so, I'd stick to only one implementation and reuse it in both methods. 

A red flag goes off for me every time I get to hear "this class does this, and that etc." - this is at odds with Single Responsibility Principle, stating that class should only have one. Do one thing, do it well. The infamous suffix is a code smell, too. How vague is that? All too often it actually means "I had no idea how to call it". In this case it's more of a naming issue, really - your doesn't really manage anything, it just builds database connections. Not connection strings, but connections themselves. Correspondingly, I would rename it to or perhaps - since it's not parameterized - . It describes what it does way more accurately. I would also try to be consistent - if you have: 

Each move has some seemingly intrinsic characteristics. In particular, each of their name should be lower case Strings, and their values are limited to some given set of words. My impression is that these rules aren't bound to change that much anyway, so why rely on the rules engine to impose them? For one, instead of checking if their names are lower case, why don't we just ensure that they always are? Instead of making it a rule, why not turn it into a basic assumption? 

To me, this is a very simple construct that captures the essence of what a Player is: an object that returns a when it s. With interface like this, you can define many different types of Players, like, for instance, one that plays randomly. For example: