Press key, type in the Search field and press Ctrl + Shift + Enter Type in Command prompt Type Select the disk (In my case i have only one HDD and it is disk 0) Type (number 0 is valid in my case, in your case it could be different) Type . It will list all partitions for selected disk (0 in my case and my recovery partition is Partition 4) Type (enter your partition number instead of 4) Type (and press Enter of course :) 

In 99% you have a device which driver causing this issue. Try to remove any external USB devices first. if the issue still occurs, than remove any additional cards you have in your PCI/PCIe slots. In most cases it is the device/driver issue. You can try to locate the device that creates the issue after Windows installation by adding one at a time. If you want to troubleshot before you accomplish Windows installation, than remove a single device and try to install Windows. When it pass installation, you will know which device causes you the trouble. If you have a WiFi adapter with the Ralink chip, than just remove it as these Ralink chips have a huge issues with 8.1. Stay away from Ralink if you want to use Windows 8.1 

I've tried my Canon camera with cable quite a few times. I would strongly recommend you to start using the card reader. As far as I remember, even the Cannon support recommends using the card reader 

I don't think that you have an issue with HDD being connected via USB. The problem is that your Windows installation on that HDD has all the drivers and hardware configuration for your old motherboard and it won`t work with the new one. If you`re really lucky, a Windows repair might work, but it could be the long shoot. I strongly advise you to backup your important data and do a clean Windows install 

I'm using FastStone Image Viewer for this, but I have tried XnView as well. You can have up to four images and each fill almost a quarter of the screen. When you zoom in or out, all four images are zoomed by the same amount. When you zoom in so that the image is larger than its display area, you can click and drag on an image to pan it. As you pan, each photo is panned in unison, making it easy to compare the actual pixels in each image. 

Another way is to create an empty single-cell table, remove the borders except the top or bottom one, and select the color and the line width :) 

FLAC format is lossless format meaning that regardless of the level of compression used, you will always have the real lossless audio. Higher compression meaning to a some extent the smaller file, but it will need more CPU power to play and compression time will be slower. Basically any lossless audio format (Monkey's Audio, OptimFROG, WavPack, Tom's Lossless Audio Kompressor (TAK) etc.) will give you a bit for bit audio in the same way as Tiff, bmp, PSD, PNG etc. will give you always the exact image. Regardless of how many time you open and save the audio file, result will be the same as when you're using the Wav format, just you will have compression. At the other hand, you must know that when ripping CDs, the used lossless format will not have any influence on the sound fidelity, but the ripping parameters will have. CD/DVD device read offset settings, using or not using the CD/DVD drive cache, using or not the C2 error correction, ability of your drive to use Accurate stream (ability to avoid jitter) will have the highest and utmost influence on the ripped audio fidelity. What lossless audio format you will use after to convert the ripped audio from Wav (when ripped audio is stored in temp folder Wav format) is not so important RR isn't bad, but for the extreme quality copy EAC is still better and it's the ultimate tool for this. I would advise you to use EAC (you can run it under Wine) 

The UX32A uses the HM76 Express chipset, which supports up to six SATAIII. I don't see any reason why would Asus limit the chipset's ability to work at SATAIII speeds. It could be that your build-in Hitachi is SATAII, but your chipset is definitely SATAIII 

The DisplayName subkey can be changed, but you dont have to do that. Usually you will change it to follow the changed Service name Now restart the computer 

Even you were close you have done it wrong. :) First navigate to In the LEFT pane, select the Service key you want to rename, press F2 and enter the name you want If you have enum subkey when you expand main key, just delete it as it will be recreated upon restart 

I know how you can trick Win 7 x86 to install XP drivers for your scanner, but I don't think that you can make your scanner to work under Win 7 x64. The option that I have had a chance to try is Hamrick Software's Vuescan and it works with your scanner. But this is not a free solution :( 

Press Start and type and press Enter This will open your Group Policy Editor. Expand Administrative Templates 

I have Video Repair Tool 1.9.0.0 and untill now i have managed to fix most of the corupted MP4 files. At least you can try it as trial will repair half of your file, so you can see if it works. Downside is that it's not free and it's a little bit expensive for ocassional usage 

It might not be the issue with your VPN but with VPN server. It's possible that your IP address is out of the incoming IP address range defined on the VPN server 

Such crazy freezing of OS can be experienced by the bunch of reasons, but from my experience, I would go the following order: If you are sure that all drivers are OK, that your OS is properly installed and that it is not some software issue (you can try the @RookieTEC9 advice, as this is the first that you should do - best advice so far) Before you start additional troubleshooting (if needed), pull out all additional hardware that you have in USB and if it still freeze, here is what you can do on your own if you are at least a little bit skilled with hardware: 

If your PS doesn't have some sort of malfunction, then you should be pretty sure that it isn't a cause of your problems. Lepa G 500 W is actually the Enermax MODU87+. This is one of the best in class PS. What nVidia recommends is the rated power of the Power Supply unit. Most id not all modern PS are based on 12V and all other voltages derives from the 12V so basically you can have almost full rated power on 12V rail(s). Thermal and Power Specs: 97C Maximum GPU Temperature (in C) 134W Maximum Graphics Card Power (W) 450W Minimum System Power Requirement (W) One 6-pinSupplementary Power Connectors You can try with another PS and if you still have the same issues you should look somewhere else for the problem, rather than PS. If you changed anything recently, like updating BIOS, drivers etc. or you have changed some hardware, I suggest that you check this first I just sow your EDIT... Check the nVidia drivers. 

Just keep your modem and buy the WiFi router. integrated or not, modem will have to modulate the signal to pass it to the router (integrated or not). From the performance and features point of view, there's no difference. The advantage advantage of having these separately is when you encounter the router malfunction - just connect the ethernet cable to modem directly and you will have the internet until you fix your router :) 

What I can recommend you, is finding a good battery and try it with the UPS. If it still have the similar issues, than you can try to send UPS to service center for repair or replacement 

When the issue occurs, is "Client for Microsoft Networks" checked in the LAN adapter properties? :) Otherwise, like for all "Resuming from Hibernate/Sleep", first try to update the LAN network card drivers. Apart from this you could also disable power management on the LAN network card 

I can bet that this is the Realtek PCIE Card Reader :) I've seen the same issue with lenovo Think Pad Edge users more than once, and it's always the Realtek Card reader driver :) Try with this Win 7 Lenovo drivers Realtek Media Card Reader-RTS5229 

If you are trying to control both fans using the single controller channel, than you will have to tweak your fan cables. Assuming that you have 3-pin connectors on your fans, each connector has the Red, Black and Yellow wire. Connect Red to Red and Black to Black wire between the fans, but not Yellow to Yellow. Now, connect one fan connector in controller, and you can control both fans using a single controller channel. Don't connect Yellow wires to each other as you may cause fan speed reading issues, since the controller will have the problem to display correct fan RPM numbers if it gets an unsynchronyzed RPM signal over the single wire However, you should be able to find the 3-pin Y-type adapter cable (fan cable adapter) for connecting two fans into a single connector. But you will have to cut the second Yellow wire (if exists) on such cable in your case. 

Besides what you have in the comments, check your BIOS version. For your CPU you must have BIOS 3.00 version, while initial version was 1.10. You can find the BIOS version on your MB's box label. If you have older BIOS version, than maybe you will have to find the older Sandy Bridge CPU to be able to flash a newer BIOS. BIOS v3.00 was released this summer to support Ivy Bridge CPUs. In case that you cannot find the CPU, maybe the ASROCK service near you can do that for you. Just a solution you should check before you start to think about faulty components :( 

If your Unallocated space is the is contiguous with your C partition, meaning that it is the part of the same disk and that you don't have any other partition except C. If this is the case than you can use Extend volume, via Disk Management. Right click on C partition and select the Extend volume and click on Next. Select the all available space. Click on Next then Finish 

Lightroom does not utilize the GPU for performance improvements and this is clearly stated in the Lightroom help. 

It's a bit old thread, but for the folks with the same problem it seems that now ATI started to support switchable legacy graphics with their latest 13.11 9.2 beta drivers More info here: $URL$ 

Check the HDD, which is often the cause for such behavior. Run some factory HDD test to be sure that there is no HDD errors Check the memory. If you have two memory sticks, pull out one and check how your system behaves. If it's freezing, replace with another stick, until you check all. Or you can try to borrow the good stick to try. If it's not freezing any more, than add one by another stick and test and to find the faulty one... or run some memory tests Check the BIOS version, and if there is any newer, flash it The worst solution would be the MB issue, but then you cannot do anything on your own