What you're doing here should work just fine - I myself have done it in the past and it usually works without hassle! However, if you're experiencing some issues it could be due to... 

See point 1. Needed? That depends entirely on whether or not you want one. Last time I checked, you could also use the touchpad that is on the MacBook Pro. Should you want a mouse, you might want to get one that uses USB, and not PS/2. 

You can also only remove it from the navigation pane in Explorer, but I thought you might want to completely disable it. 

Disabling SkyDrive entirely via registry editor This method should work regardless of Windows version. 

Basically, all you need to do is copy the contents of your Dropbox folder to wherever you place your new Dropbox folder. If you do this before selecting the folder you're going to use, Dropbox will still spend some time, but it'll only be on the verification of the files that are already in the folder. 

I think you're doing it quite correctly, but it seems like the class isn't available on your computer. Which, isn't surprising, as it isn't available here either: 

I have set up a Microsoft "Live" account, and one of the features is the "OneDrive" cloud storage. I've used this quite a bit from Windows 7, and it has worked flawlessly - I could open my files everywhere, even on a Mac. Now with my new Windows 10 laptop, I don't have to install the OneDrive client software anymore - it's a built-in Win10 app. Sounds like a great improvement - but where on earth do my files go?? The files that I synchronize to OneDrive using the Win10 Onedrive app don't show up in the same place as my Windows 7 files, so on Windows 7 or a Mac, I cannot see those files...... or am I just looking in the wrong place?? What would be the right place to look for files synchronized by the Win10 Onedrive app?? 

My buddy is using Microsoft Live Mail 2011. The challenge is: this is a basically German setup - so the menus and dialogs and all are German. He also needs to write e-mails in English and French, and would like to also spell-check these e-mails before sending. Under , you can define what languages are supported by the spellchecker. We made sure we have all the German, French an English languages installed and ready. BUT: even with this setup, while German e-mails are spellchecked correctly, anything we type in English is shown with a red squiggly underline.... What I've been unable to find is how to tell the e-mail editor that this is an ENGLISH text now so that the English spell checker would be used. We even went so far as to set one of the English languages as the default (using the button in the options dialog) -> same result. Gemran is spellchecked correctly, all English text is underlined as mistakes.... How on earth can we teach Live Mail to either use all installed languages when spell-checking, or how can we define that a given e-mail is German, another one is English, and a third is French?? 

Manual solution Have you considered setting up the two instances of your web-server software to simply start up at boot? I don't see why you shouldn't be able to make it automatic. How about a login hook?. 

Start Windows Powershell with Win + R, then enter . Run the following snippet with appropriate adjustments. 

The question that anyone who wants to answer your question has to ask themselves is: are there any features available in Internet Explorer 10 that are only available in Windows 8? Luckily for you, Microsoft has a pretty good list of differences on MSDN. The list mainly states that you'll lose 

With the specifications for your netbook, there's no reason why this shouldn't work just fine. Especially if you look at the minimum requirements for Windows 7. Clearly, you'll need to install the drivers for your netbook - but the differences between Starter and Enterprise lie not in the core department, and thus that shouldn't be a problem. I would note however that I highly doubt you havea volume license agreement, and thus installing Windows 7 Enterprise seems highly unlikely to be "legit". Just saying! 

Of course - this will happily launch Solution#1, but then it is blocked and never gets around to start up the other solutions. So I need something like "execute those four tasks in parallel" - but in Windows CMD script... any takers?? I might also consider PowerShell, if that would make life easier... I would just like to be able to click on a single icon, go grab a coffee, and when I'm back, my four solutions would be open in Visual Studio for me. Any thoughts, ideas? 

My buddy is using TotalCommander as his file manager and program launcher, and I was wondering if there's any way to create a program launch button that will start up Visual Studio as an admin? When I create a shortcut on my Win7 desktop, there's a setting in the Advanced options to launch Visual Studio as an admin. How can I do the same in TotalCommander?? Has someone figured that out yet?? 

I have a HP Ultraslim docking station for my HP Elitebook Folio 9470m ultrabook. The connection to the external monitor and the network works fine - but I cannot seem to plug in any peripherals into the USB ports on the docking station 

1.a If they are both necessary, are there any benefits? The only "benefit" -- it's not really a benefit, as much as a requirement -- is that with SMB over NBT (NetBIOS over TCP/IP), you'll actually be able to communicate with a greater deal of implementations of SMB. 2. What information/service does and provide? *My quick guess is that while simply provides the NetBIOS API, including NBT (NetBIOS over TCP/IP) via port . On the other hand, provides the direct hosting of SMB via port .* 

Most likely the page there is referring to the maximum capacity of the memory controller on the motherboard. Thus, you will not be able to utilize any more than 4GB of memory. Should you however add more than 4GB of memory, your device will not be harmed, although you might not be able to use any of the memory. 

If you look under the section System Commands in the -page for , you'll see the various options that are system related. A brief list is as follows for different modes: 

Usage without trayicon: Just drag and drop your favourite application to gdi++.exe. Native Windows controls are also now in effect. Usage with trayicon: Just right-click the trayicon and select . 

Is that even possible? If so: how? I'm a programmer - not a sys admin - so this stuff is all a tad foreign to me :-) Any thoughts, ideas, approaches are most welcome ! 

By default, Windows 10 (Pro) seems to open files in Edge - yuck! I picked Acrobat Reader instead - and for a while, it seemed to work. Then, however, I suddenly get a message in the message center "An app association has been reset" (or something like that - mine is in German) - without any further explanation - and now Win10 is again opening all my files in Edge. I keep doing this - sometimes more than once a day - but I can't seem to get Win10 to simply ACCEPT my choice of Acrobat Reader over Edge - this is HIGHLY ANNOYING ! Is there any way or hack to get Win10 to finally SHUT UP and just accept that I prefer opening my files in Acrobat Reader? 

My buddy is running Oracle VirtualBox, and everything works fine - except for the fact that the backslash ( ) key on a Swiss-German keyboard doesn't work - instead you're getting a vertical bar ( ) - which is really quite annoying if you're trying to type in UNC paths.... The on a Swiss-German keyboard is on the key with the and signs - you need to press or to get it. Is there any way to teach VirtualBox that we're using a Swiss German keyboard and that it should respect the keyboard layout?? 

Firstly, I'd like to make a note that only speculation can be done on the basis of the slightly vague question of yours. On the first hunch, such a problem would be attributed to the fact that an internal SD-card reader is just another device; to you, such a device may seem as an integrated part of the system, but only in the sense that it's a part of the casing/tower/notebook. The data link between the motherboard and the actual SD-card reader could be the culprit, but so could the SD-card reader itself be. This meaning that if the data link is slower than the data link between the USB-device, then you're going to get a slower performance. Other factors could depend on features such as write-cache, but such elements would usually be bypassed by benchmarking software. 

You can install Chocolatey exactly where you would like, and to make that easier, there's even some information written up on the wiki for Chocolatey about that! 

You could use CloneZilla. Clone using disk files to an intermediary if you'd like, then clone from those disk files to your new SSD. I've done the same procedure myself when I only had a USB Mini cable. First I cloned the SSD to the external HDD, then replaced the SSD with the new one and cloned the contents back to the new drive. As long as your new drive has a higher capacity than the older SSD, this should be smooth sailing. 

The peripherals work just fine when I plug them directly into the ultrabook - but that kinda defeats the purpose of having a docking station! Any ideas? Thoughts? Similar experiences? Anything I can check, set, configure to make those USB ports recognize my peripherals? 

I'm trying to write a Windows CMD file (for Windows 7) that will launch four instances of Visual Studio 2010 with four solutions (which make up the project I'm working on right now). What I've tried is something like this: 

Some crapware has installed itself into my system and has "infected" all my browsers. I've been able to reset all the home pages and search providers to what I want - but in Firefox (v22), I'm still struggling with one point: whenever I open a new tab, that crapware site gets loaded - which I DO NOT want. But how and where can I undo this damage? I haven't found anything just yet.... I did find a number of items on the Mozilla support site talking about the page - but that's not what seems to be causing this site to load in every single new tab that I'm opening. Where else in Firefox can I define what site gets loaded on a new tab? I gone back and forth through all the configuration dialogs, checked the extensions etc - it's not there. I've removed all mentions of that crap site from my registry - so it shouldn't be there, either. Where else could that crap URL be hiding and be pulled from for each new tab??