I have an apache webserver (shared hosting) where I have access to If I place a in it gets applied to all subdirectories. The domain belonging to this has several subdomains that link to subdirectories of this webspace. I want to use authentication for some of the subdomains, whereas the main page should be password-free. e.g.: 

as location for the keyword. Pay attention to the capital S. If your keyword is route you can now enter: 

In general: NO, you can not tell. But sometimes you can. Have a look at the headers and look for something like: if it says something like it is probably Windows. But these headers can be spoofed easily. 

Initial connection time overhead due to additional round trips for encryption Is there a bandwidth overhead? 

Bonus question: how big will the partition created by be? Will it be ? My intention is to not use the full size of the disk but to limit myself to 3 TB in order to be able to replace a failed drive with a different model. Do I need if I have aligned partitions? Is it useless? Does it harm me somehow? What about the stripsize? Do I need to modify it? What if I use 5 disks instead of 4 disks? Is there anything else what I should consider? 

Alternatively, you can just use Bitnami Drupal Stack, which installs mysql and all dependencies with a simple graphical wizzard. Or you could install LAMPStack, which serves as a common infrastructure, then download the Drupal Stack module and install it (and any other apps you find there as modules, sharing the same LAMPStack as a base. ) 

Some advice: you may want to give it a try to : Super Fdisk ( ptdd.com ), gparted, or...partition magic. Sometimes in the past I needed one of those to delete a linux partition...Indeed, usually old fdisk tended to be great for these deletions. 

er... Sorry if I give a too obvious answer... There's a quick way to see basic info, very basic, for this. In windows, just right click on the file, Properties, "Summary" tab, then hit button "advanced". Again, sorry if is too obvious to mention this. 

My advice is create a Photoshop Action(sort of macro) which makes what you need, thinking while making it in not add any too specific step that will only work with certain file, and then use File/Automate/Batch. There, set the input and output folders, and set PSD as format to output. 

I have a CentOS server running Centreon (a monitoring solution similar to Nagios) to monitor devices in multiple networks. The server could access the internet via 4 different gateways/routers, each having its own physical internet connection (ADSL and/or LTE). Right now I have set one of them as gateway and if this line fails, the server can no longer reach the internet. How can I automatically switch to another gateway if one fails? This also raises the question: how can I detect that an internet connection has failed? 

Probably not, but BitTorrent (BT) might still be a good idea for your problem. BT divides large files into chunks (so-called pieces) and calculates SHA1 hashes for each piece. Pieces can be loaded individually of each other (out of order and also in parallel). After a piece is downloaded completely(!) the SHA1 is checked and if a corruption is found the piece is discarded and downloaded again. The size of a piece is variable but per-determined by the torrent creator. The default value piece size 256 KiB. Larger torrents usually use larger piece sizes. For example the ubuntu 16.04 ISO (1.3 GiB) uses 512 KiB. The Caine 7.0 ISO (2.9 GiB) uses 1 MiB. So, if your piece size is not that big, bittorrent will achieve what you desire. To save bandwidth, maybe you want to disable some BT features like DHT and PeX and rely only on trackers. You might also want to limit the number of parallel connections and the number of parallel pieces, in order to complete a piece before your connection might break. (I think this can be achieved with the "in order" setting of qBittorrent) Also many clients (like qBittorrent) can also use HTTP sources in addition to the torrent protocol. Althou I am not sure if they also to the piece checksum thing for HTTP sources. 

The columns to symbolize the heading level where the index heading should appear in the ToC: if you want the "" entry appear on the same level as headings, move it to the "" column; if , then and so on. So, to make LO recognize the "" ToC entry as heading, the window should look like this: 

AFAIK there's no way to modify the layout of the "comment indicator". But you can use the Navigator Window to quickly move between comments (you may toggle the "Navigator" using F5 or menu -> ): 

After copying the code to your user library, just assign to, e.g., Alt+C, to, e.g., Alt+V, and to, e.g., Alt+R (all these shortcuts are empty by default). Now, you can select cells or rows using mouse or keyboard, cut them using Alt+C, move to the target cell, and paste them using Alt+V or Alt+R. 

Changing he value of the attribute to will make Thunderbird save even attachments with 'html' file extension: 

Now, just click OK and create the ToC. It will contain an entry for the Alphabetical Index on the level you've specified above. 

As far as I understood it the kernel modules are the LIS tools needed for Hyper-V. And is the one needed for dynamic memory. 

I had the most success with DiskDigger: $URL$ (free for personal use) In contrast to other recovery tools it does not need a partition to work on. It can scan a raw device. It only works if your partition was FAT (FAT12, FAT16, FAT32), NTFS, or exFAT. 

Use a regexp to have every sentence on a new line. This can be done (for example) be searching for all and replacing them with Remove all whitespaces at the beginning of the line. Now go ahead and sort the lines (TextFX -> TextFX Tools) Convert the EOL character to UNIX because ot makes things simpler (Edit -> EOL conversion) Now search for duplicated lines by searching for 

Then it looks at this folder (the default would be ) and checks if there is an executable . If it is, the converter works. The latest (as of 29. March 2016) installs avconv 11.2 I downloaded the newest release (11.3) from libav.org, and everything still works. Can be found here: 

It happened to me with a previous 3.1x Thunderbird version. Maybe upgrade to 3.1.9. Might be some setting in html composing settings, or , I also noticed a boost when unmarked global index and search checkbox at Preferences/Advanced , General tab. Other things I did not try (as an update solved it) were deactivate grammar auto checking, use only non html composing, etc. It might be that you have it configured as typing in text only mode, but there's a setting at composing settings, in preferences which give you several options, and default I think is type in html, rich format, if the original wrtitter was doing so. So would happen only in replies, not in a new blank message. 

I've noticed some times a black out like this can happen even with other devices, my method in these cases has been disabling one by one certain integrated chips in BIOS, or BIOS feature (if is not a critical one!), and start each time to see if problem dissapears, to at least know which is causing it. In one occassion it would black out due to an integrated audio card in mother board, for example. In this way, I at least can know what (what drivers or faulty hardware,etc) I have to fight against. Just to add another idea. 

A GUI solution would be to use the of Windows. You can start it by pressing and entering this command: Then you can click on the tab to view all network connections, listening ports, etc. Here is a screenshot how it looks like: 

Mount your drives in a different pc/usb-enclosure/different SATA-port. Boot from a Live CD (e.g. Ubuntu or Knoppix). Perform a read only test of your drives. You can do this by SMART commands and/or by using tools like or 

into your Firefox location bar to get the route. It also works if the city names have spaces or if you enter spaces around the slash: 

Question: what should happen with non-HTTP traffic in the wireless network? Apart from that, you will have to do certain things: 

You can never be sure when it comes to results. But there is hope for your special case. The contract says the servers are in the EU. There is a test you can execute which, if successful, would give you 100% guarantee that they are lying. (if unsuccessful, they might be telling the truth, or they might be lying) The idea is to use something like ping to measure the response time. Since you are using SaaS, it might not be enough to just ping the server. Maybe you want to have something where the software responds. Now comes the tricky part. You need to execute this ping from a machine which is located in the US. You need to be sure that this machine is in the US! If you get a ping which is lower than 50ms, then you can be 100% sure the server is not in the EU. If you get a ping lower than 120ms, the server is likely not in the EU. But why? The answer is: physics. The distance between US and Europe is so long that a signal traveling at the speed of light through fiber would need ~25ms for the trip (see WolframAlpha). Since ping measures two trips (host-server-host), a ping from the US to Europe needs at least 50ms. But it gets better: the fastest cable between the two continents has ~60ms delay. So a ping below 120 indicates that the server is probably in the US. 

AFAIK, you can't do this for non-adjacent cells in OpenOffice or LibreOffice Calc (this is different from Excel - there, you can use CTRL+Enter on non-contiguous ranges). For adjacent cells, use ALT+ENTER to enter data or formula into all selected cells. Works both in OpenOffice Calc and LibreOffice Calc. From the LibreOffice Calc Help ($URL$ 

I recommend using a simple plain odt Writer file and use the Navigator, maybe in connection with setting bookmarks. The Navigator (Menu View -> Navigator or F5) can list the heading structure, sections, bookmarks and so on. 

Open the "" mode - either by double-clicking on the chart, or by single-clicking it and selecting "" from the context menu. In chart edit mode, the chart is surrounded by a gray border. Move the cursor over the X Axis until a Popup "" appears; then select the X axis with a single left click: 

I recommend to define different page styles. AFAIK, OOo doesn't know something like "logical page size". So, the best bet is to switch between physical page sizes using page styles. By defining the main matter margins, you can make sure that changing the page size doesn't affect page breaks. Another option may be to manually select the printer media size in the printing dialog. But it depends on the printer driver if this works. Finally, you may overcome OOo's limitations by creating a PDF with a certain size and resize it using PDF tools.