Link utilization will depend on how applications+protocols work. For instance, one could have the server trying to send a constant-rate 2Gbps multicast stream that the four clients would like to receive. However, the 1Gbps server link will drop half of the traffic, and receivers' 100Mbps link will only be able to deliver 5% of the original traffic (100Mbps/2000Mbps). And all this while links are running at full capacity. If however, you are running an web server, and all your traffic is HTTP, the traffic pattern is likely: 

EX4200 switch has a firewall filter applied to input of trunk port. Intent is to rate-limit (police) input bandwidth per VLAN id. However the 'show firewall' command points out that policing is taking place only for the filter last "catch all" term (so named ACCEPT_OTHER_VLANS). Traffic from VLAN115 is actually being policed at the 2Mbps limit of the ACCEPT_OTHER_VLANS term. The configuration looks fine to me. Question: For this specific hardware/software, can anyone spot 

You need to find both Distance and Speed for the electromagnetic waves for the specific transmission medium. For instance, for fiber: 

It might be an error, and the frame will be discarded. It may be an 'access' port from a service provider running 'provider bridging', then the frame will receive double tagging. It can get even more complex vlan translations. So it all depends on the full network setup. 

While VLAN is a tool often used to reduce the size of the broadcast domain, its major underlying goal was to partition a physical LAN device (switch, bridge) into multiple logical portions (VLANs). Think of a single physical device offering Ethernet LAN services for multiple departments within an organization. Every department would get a piece of that single physical device -- that is, some ports restricted into a VLAN. Thus one would not need to buy dedicated LAN hardware for every department. 

Unless something changed recently in regards to WLC/Prime licensing, you can only do this when you are running a two controllers in a HA active/standby state. In this case, you only need permanent count licenses on the active WLC. From Cisco documentation: "In Cisco Prime Infrastructure, the only HA configuration is supported is 1:1 - 1 primary system, 1 secondary system." Prime Infrastructure does not support HA in an active/active mode. While the APs can have a backup controller configured, this is not considered HA. In this case, each controller would require sufficient licenses to support the APs that would be connecting to it. 

I will throw out the caveat that some drivers will allow you to specify which band or bands in which a device will operate. So it logically follows that if you have configured your 802.11n dual band device to only operate in 5GHz, it won't be able to operate in an 802.11g environment (and vice versa). 

If the switch is providing DHCP services, then the only difference should be that you should not need to "trust" any port. The reason why is that the trusted ports are allowed to receive (and not drop) DHCP server types of messages (ACK, NAK, OFFER, etc). Since the switch is generating them, it won't be receiving them on any port. 

After hours or during a maintenance window, "disconnect" all other stations. You could do this by using a MAC allow list (allow only the extender and testing station) or changing the SSID and/or security. Make sure there isn't another SSID that they will connect to automatically. If you changed the SSID and/or seurity, reconfigure the extender. Run the tests close to the extender and further away as was done previously. 

Fire a continuous ping test over the main path established by OSPF. Disrupt the main path. Wait until OSPF restores connectivity for ping. Record how much time elapsed between steps 2 and 3. 

If you configure the 1921 LNS to request authentication from a RADIUS server, yes, it is possible, since you can use RADIUS to attach a specific address for every user. I do not know whether it is possible with local user authentication on the Cisco router itself. 

$URL$ Therefore, according my output (MSS 1240, peer MSS 9152, min MSS 1240, max MSS 1240), the ASR9K is limiting its outgoing TCP segments to 'MSS 1240'. 

Can EX4200 provide traffic counters thru SNMP for specific VLAN id on a trunk port? If so, please point out directions. 

Are you sure both switches are forwarding IP packets? Usually routers have 'ip routing' enabled. Check all your devices for both 'ip routing' and 'ip cef': 

Clocks of network devices usually DO NOT have high-quality oscillators. Because those oscillators are expensive hardware. If all you need is to distribute wall clock time through NTP (with millisecond precision) , they might suffice. If you need high accuracy for services like TDM over packet, you will likely need either SyncE or PTP (precision time protocol), for sub-microsecond precision, and clock sources with high-accuracy oscillator (as you said, specific hardware). 

The server usually identifies the client by its MAC address. However, it might use the field 'client identifier' option, if present. See also: 

SyncE is one method for providing high accuracy clocking for TDM over packet protocols. Another mechanism is "IEEE 1588-2008 Precision Time Protocol". 

The first address A of the range has a sequence of H x 0's bits as least significant bits. The last address B of the range shares all the same (32-H) bits from A, AND has H x 1's for the least significant bits. 

To start, the reference you are using is incomplete. Here is another one, that is also incomplete (lists none in Milwaukee and only one in the Chicago area). Both are missing one of the largest IXPs in Chicago. But more importantly, these are only the points where one network will peer with another network. This doesn't account for the breadth or scope of a single provider's network. For example, clearly AT&T has a presence in your area, but they may choose not to peer with anyone there. They may peer in Chicago and carry all the traffic across their network to that point (or one somewhere else). Further, private organizations are not required to disclose their presence at any location. They may choose not to do so for any number of reasons. Finally, most lists do not account for networks that may have been absorbed by a larger network but are still listed under an older name. One example you will often still see listed in places is UUNET although this network is now part of Verizon (which you can also find listed in places as MCI or MCI Worldcom as well). 

Based on your questions and comments, I think you are missing the point of the two articles you are referencing. When they are talking about "Raw Ethernet," they are talking about data frames that do not contain any IP (L3) or TCP/UDP (L4) headers. They are not talking about using L2 frames without L2 headers. Without the L2 headers, a frame would be neither an 802.3 (Ethernet) nor an 802.11 frame. It would be something else entirely. A separate L2 protocol. 

This may not take up much bandwidth, and while normally a network device will drop traffic not addressed to itself, this is not always the case. On this network, Computer 15 has been compromised and it now watching all the traffic it receives and now is able to also "download" the XML file containing the patient list as well. To protect against this, you now require that all internal traffic be encrypted or protected by some means. This takes resources to develop, resources to verify everything is secure, and resources on the end points themselves to encrypt/decrypt everything. So, back to your original question, "Why doesn't it always do this if it can, since it would be faster than doing a look up in a table?" Most switches utilize specialized hardware that does these look ups very, very quickly. This isn't measured in microseconds, but rather in nanoseconds (and won't reach the double digits at that). It is also not tied to CPU or memory resources. Compare this to the amount of processing required by each station as it inspects and drops all the unnecessary traffic (also typically measured in nanoseconds, but it needs to be done by each device and not just the switch). Or the time it takes to time out and re-transmit a frame when the network is congested (which may be measured in seconds). Or the time it takes to establish some sort of encryption between each set of two devices that want to communicate in a secure fashion (which can easily introduce microseconds of delay). In addition, this may require additional traffic (such as a SSL/TLS exchange, etc). Flooding all traffic is simply unfeasible on a network with more than a handful of devices. 

I have multiple q-in-q S-VLANs assigned to the trunk port ge-0/0/0. How can I read SNMP traffic counters for a specific VLAN id (S-VLAN) on that trunk port? Hardware is Juniper EX4200-24F. For reference, the VLAN configuration is shown below. For instance, I need to read, thru SNMP, traffic counters for S-VLAN id=4 for packets received/sent on port ge-0/0/0. 

Switch Fabric Capacity: It usually means the maximum rate the hardware can move information between cards/ports. However it does not account for time spent looking up output port for frames and packets, for instance. Forwarding Rate: It usually means the maximum rate the system can actually perform full forwarding for frames/packets, including delays with store-and-forward, MAC/route table lookup, and so on. 

Source-based tree: A non-shared multicast distribution tree (forwarding/replication state on intermediate routers) is built for every SOURCE,GROUP pair. Source-based tree is unidirectional. Shared tree: A per-group multicast distribution tree is built on routers, shared by all group's senders and receivers. The shared tree might be bidirectional. 

This is a quick recipe using Quagga pimd: 1) Setup Host1 static default route towards RouterA (you could also use an static specific route for the multicast group). 2) Make sure Host1 source is sending multicast stream with proper TTL (high enough to reach the receivers). 3) Make sure unicast routing towards multicast source is correct on RouterA. 4) Run Quagga pimd on RouterA: ATTENTION: pimd requires the zebra daemon: run zebra daemon before starting pimd. 

One smart capture daemon should be able to distinguish multiple exporters by the exporter address. However, your actual capture tool is likely to restrict what you can achieve. For instance, nfcapd seems designed so that you should run a distinct nfcapd daemon for every exporter. So, if you can't change the UDP destination port, perhaps you can use multiple IP address? Run each nfcapd daemon on a distinct address, like this: 

The OS rating of single mode fiber should have no bearing on your choice of transceivers. Both OS1 and OS2 will work with the most popular single mode transceivers (most of which use wavelengths around 1310nm and 1550nm). This includes 1000Base-LX/LX10/EX/LH/ZX and it is the transceiver which larger determines the distance the signal will propagate, not the fiber. The main difference in OS1 and OS2 is the construction of the cable, although OS2 may specify cable with a lower attenuation specification (depending on when and under which standards it was manufactured). 

Obviously there could be a lot more to this plan, but with the limited details provided, this is the framework I would follow. 

Based on the evidence at hand, and technically speaking, they both appear to be adhering to the standard. We would need a better capture to make any further determinations. 

Since you mention Cisco VoIP phones, they need to be getting power from somewhere. The two options are PoE or a power supply. If they are using a power supply, then you probably don't have PoE (or at least enough power available on PoE). Neither allows you to connect a PoE device to the PC port to get power (there is no PoE pass through). If you find you really need to daisy chain, then you may be able to use a product like the Cisco 700W AP. Haven't used them myself, but I know they have a PoE port in the switch ports they provide, so you could possibly plug the phone into the AP. However I do believe they require 802.3at power to do so. The two pieces of equipment you list are a 2811 router and a 2950 switch. Most routers do not provide PoE, and to my knowledge, the 2811 is no exception to this. I also don't know of any 2950 series switches that have PoE, and based on the age of that product line, if there were any it would be the Cisco pre-standard proprietary flavor, not 802.3af or 802.3at. As to how easy it is to implement if you don't have it, typically most places will either replace their older switch or add a new switch that supports PoE for their PoE devices. You will probably wish to have a new switch anyhow as the 2950s are all 10/100Mbps (with a couple exceptions that have two or transceiver capabilities) and even 802.11n wireless access points can exceed 100Mbps of throughput so 1000Mbps ports are nice to have. If you don't want to go down the new switch route, then you can use midspan power injectors. These come in inexpensive non-managed versions as well as more expensive managed versions. The problem with most non-managed versions is that there is no way to remotely power cycle a non-responsive access point, someone will have to physically disconnect the cable. In either case, some form of PoE will almost always be less expensive than running electricity to the AP location. 

No. TCAM circuitry can DIRECTLY lookup keys against entries built with 0s and 1s and Xs (X=don't care). For instance, you could insert entry=1.0.0.X then you can lookup key=1.0.0.1. The TCAM circuitry will find and return the matching 1.0.0.X entry (plus its associated information) without doing the "formal" masking you seem to be picturing. However, TCAM lookup does a kind of masking to distinguish between "care bits" and "don't care bits" 

Move every /24 prefix in BGP one at a time. Before moving the first /24 prefix, establish an IP tunnel between the two locations. When you need to move one IP of a given /24 prefix, make location A to forward that address (a /32 route) thru the tunnel to location B. As soon as every address from one /24 prefix is going to location B via tunnel, move its BGP prefix announcement from location A to B. Repeat steps 3-4 for every /24 prefix. Bring down the tunnel. 

5) Install Quagga pimd on RouterB, in order to run this IGMPv3 join tool: RouterB: 6) Use Quagga pimd commands on RouterA to verify multicast. For instance: RouterA: RouterA: 7) If things aren't working as expected, try pimd troubleshooting commands: 

How do I tell Juniper EX4200 to push specific S-VLAN based on C-VLAN on q-in-q (dot1q-tunneling) port? For instance I want to instruct EX4200 to perform Q-in-Q using these rules: 

Conversely, whenever a double-tag frame is to be sent on ge-0/0/0, the outter S-VLAN ought to be removed (popped). Can this be done with Juniper EX4200? If so, please point out the specific configuration commands. 

However its output is quite verbose. Of course one can write an output parser for extracting the view you need from the output of 'show bgp vpnv4 unicast all neighbors'. For example, see $URL$ Sample output: