A camera A software or hardware encoder A software or hardware capture device A decent internet connection (upload rate must be greater than your stream rate) An online service, or your own server 

You could edit your hosts file, which will block the traffic. Maybe there is a less brute force way, but I'm sure this will work. Add the following to your hosts file in Linux and Windows: 

I believe you will need to download the Greek language pack for IE9, available from Microsoft, in order to be able to use another language in Internet Explorer. It's the one named "". 

There are some DIY projects that have liquid-cooling at their core. This obviously reduces the temperature, but a savvy hobbyist could simply modify the project to remove the fans completely and run only a liquid-cooling setup. Obviously this renders the laptop more of a desktop, but it does answer the question. For a more portable solution, as the other answers state, a good gaming laptop cooling pad is the best option. 

If you wanted this to work in Virtualbox, there is a walkthrough on the backtrack wiki: $URL$ However, I'd recommend using VMWare Player as @richardhsu mentions, as the performance is better (IMO) and you have more functionality, such as drag and drop between host and guest. 

Honestly, I'm a fan of Nod32 as it has a small footprint and is resource-friendly. However, recently I have uninstalled all 3rd party AV programs and started using Microsoft Security Essentials, Microsoft's own, free, Antivirus product. I have been fine with it on Windows 7, but it is also available on XP. If you dislike it, you can then always try another product. $URL$ $URL$ 

To answer your question, no, not that I know of. However, a minor workaround: If you revert to windows classic, there is a little more contrast between active and inactive windows as the top part of the window chrome turns a darker shade of gray. 

ABP acknowledges on their forum that they have a significant memory overhead, so if you want to get your RAM usage down you will have to switch to something else. You could always try an ad-blocking HOSTS file, which wouldn't waste RAM. This particular one is regularly updated, but be sure to check it over before adopting it and make a backup of your original to be safe, of course. Lifehacker also has a whole article on this subject. 

Buy an external hard drive larger than your internal hard drive with the OS and files. Use Time Machine, the built-in backup solution from Apple. 

Irfanview is a very simple and free software tool to get this done quickly. Weighing in at 1.4MB, it's a fast download too. 

The other answers regarding using a second profile or installing a second version of Chrome should work fine. I'm taking a different angle only to provide another option, not because I think this is a better way of doing it. 

I use FolderSize on a server at work to administrate more effectively. It's essentially a Windows Explorer plugin that allows you to display folder-children, both files and folders along with their size. $URL$ 

If you're in windows 7, open your start menu and click on "Default Programs". Now click on "Associate a file type...". From here you can remap, but not remove, any file associations. Here is a list of Office 2007 file extensions, which will come in handy. If you want completely unassociate a filetype, you must use a third party tool, or delve into the registry. I prefer this little freeware tool called unassoc. 

I have an i7-2600k (not overclocked) on an ASUS P8Z68 V-Pro motherboard that I was cooling using a Corsair H60 since last August. My A/C went out for a period of two weeks and my ambient temperature went up accordingly, of course, and at some stage the cooler quit. Luckily I was running ASUS AISuite and it notified me of high CPU temperatures, so I shut down the game I was playing to investigate. Before I concluded the cooler had died, I did a little testing with the fan speeds and such, to try and determine where the issue might have originated, until finally thermal shutoff shut the machine down when the CPU reached 99C. I changed the water cooler out for the stock cooler, after cleaning the CPU correctly with arctic silver cleaner and reapplying thermal paste; however, by accident I wiped the CPU dry with a non lint-free cloth and when I re-seated the CPU I noticed some had got into the socket pins. So I removed the CPU and using very fine tweezers I tried to remove the lint, but in the process bent some pins in the socket area. I then spent some time carefully bending them back into the original position, which didn't work for all of them but I felt I'd better leave them before they snap off from too much moving around. Anyway, cue a re-seat of the CPU and no boot whatsoever, and I got a little worried but didn't have time to delve into any repair as I had to leave town for a week. Anyway, I'm now back and looking for advice on what to do and where to start before I go forking out 700 bucks on a new CPU and motherboard. Thanks for any assistance! Edit: OK, so new motherboard installed and I used the old i2600k and it won't even boot. Everything spins up, but no POST beeps or anything, not even a flicker on the screen. Could I have fried my CPU as well? 

Without knowing how far apart these geographic points are, I have to assume they're not line-of-sight. Otherwise, you could boost power or use a directional antenna to reduce attenuation between the two sites. So from a technology point-of-view, there are two ways that you can approach this. You can use ArcGIS to create an elevation profile based on a polyline . This is an expensive solution, but if you're doing it often, it might be more precise. Precision is dependent on your data set, of course. The alternative is free and much simpler to accomplish. Download Google Earth, and use the ruler to draw a path between two places. Then go to -> , and you'll end up with a 2D elevation chart (see image below) that you should be able to use to determine areas where line-of-sight communications will be difficult. 

Book pages are basically photographically scanned, and then transformed into text using "Optical Character Recognition" (OCR) and fed to the web in the form of an image with one word that is known to the computer program behind reCAPTCHA and one word that is not yet known. The user then types both words out and if they solve the one for which the answer is known, the system assumes their answer is correct for the new one. The system then gives the new image to a number of other people to determine, with higher confidence, whether the original answer was correct. Therefore, the system is a self-improving service that gets better with time. $URL$ 

In order to see the advanced tab, you must not run R&R from the Productivity Center, as you don't get the full menu. Instead, start the program from , and you'll see the advanced menu at the bottom left. Now follow this knowledgebase article: $URL$ 

A small thumbdrive to "install" firefox on. Lastpass for Firefox Portable - click full list of downloads and scroll down, there is a special version for use with portable apps. Portable Firefox. 

If all you're wanting to do is scan for threats, then why bother installing anything at all? Just run Comodo portable scanner, or similar. A quick google search for "portable antivirus windows XP" will pop-up quite a few decent results in the top 10. Comodo Scanner: $URL$ 

Try the following: Open Outlook and maximize the program. Then close Outlook correctly, using the menu option: File-> Exit. After reopening Outlook it should be maximized, as it should remember its last state. (If it isn't, there is something else wrong and you can try using CCleaner to clear the Window size/Location cache.) If it did remember its previous state, size it the way you want it to be and minimize it to the tray as you had it, close the program as before and restart to see if it took effect. 

You can install the free version of Revo uninstaller, set Hunter mode to ON, then reinstall malwarebytes. Hunter mode keeps track off all location, both file and registry, where software installs to. So this should give Revo the required information to uninstall correctly and fully using Revo uninstaller's "moderate" mode. 

The simplest of all the answers I have seen so far is what my college did: They made use of the Respondus Lockdown browser. You make the student log into the exam using the Lockdown browser only, it then ensures that you can't get out of that browser using any keyboard shortcuts or others well-known methods of forcing it to lose focus. The browser then logs everything you need to know, including any history and like and the student doesn't have the ability to delete anything. Con: your college will have to pay for a license. Major pro: 

I wouldn't call it FUD, but the features that you describe are certainly becoming less and less necessary, in part due to what you already mentioned. However, CCleaner is a useful tool, if you know how to use it. I regularly use it to fix installation issues where the installer will not work due to some leftover registry entries. Now I can go in manually to hunt them down, or do a sweep with CCleaner and let it do the grunt work--I have yet to see it fail to find what I'm looking for. Of course, it also features a quick way of disabling startup items and from a (albeit on a low level) privacy aspect, the selective cookie cleaning is also nice. You can also download a community-built ini file that adds a lot more features to the cleaning tool, which is useful if you are a particularly obsessive cleaner. Whether or not it aids performance, I don't know, as I haven't run any benchmarks. Perhaps placebo effect, but I do notice when I run it on client's systems who are not particularly IT savvy that the performance has increased substantially. On my own system, where I run it more regularly, I do not notice the slight performance boost it may warrant. 

Honestly, if you are moderately comfortable coding in PHP, the best option is to just write yourself a quick application. It's fun and you also learn from doing this. However, if you're already advanced and can't be bothered with such low-level nonsense or you can't code PHP at all then there are some good open-source alternatives for you such as phpMyFAQ and RTFM. If you want something heavier, you can easily turn a CMS such as WordPress into a Knowledgebase Manager by using free plugins like this. Tutsplus also has a tutorial on how to do this yourself using custom posts. 

I would use the RoundDown function, as it is designed specifically for what you are asking. It takes two arguments, the first being the number [or cell reference] you want to round down, the second being the amount of decimals it should have. Examples: =ROUNDDOWN(3.1456,0) becomes 3 =ROUNDDOWN(3.1456,1) becomes 3.1 =ROUNDDOWN(3.1456,2) becomes 3.14 =ROUNDDOWN(3.1456,3) becomes 3.145 =ROUNDDOWN(3.1456,4) becomes 3.1456 

I have looked at PhantomPDF by Foxit, which at first glance seems to do what I am wanting to do: Create a (PDF) form, fill it out and save the form with the information intact. Alternative software seems to require Adobe LiveCycle Forms Designer to run 

AVG has rebranded their products. AVG antivirus is now installed through a program called AVG Protection Free; however, there are still standalone installers for just the antivirus solution. Once downloaded, beware that the software will still need to download the latest virus definition database and possibly update itself. So while the bulk is offline, it is not truly a completely offline resource. To avoid that, AVG offers the latest virus definition database for download here (114MB as of January 9, 2017). 32-bit direct download (230MB) 64-bit direct download (253MB) To remove AVG entirely, they offer a removal tool (~8MB). 

If the VPN uses encryption, such as SSL or IPsec, then yes the network may be slower as the packets need to be encrypted and decrypted at each end. Whether this will interfere with your ability to carry out VOIP operations depends on the speed of the internet connection, how much bandwidth you give the application and the amount of CPU available on each end. 

I don't have an answer that does exactly what you ask, but what I do is use keyboard shortcuts to get things done. Win+D has the same behavior as the Show Desktop Button. Then once I'm ready to go back to another program or folder, I use Alt+Tab to scroll through the minimized windows to get to where I'm working at. This to me seems the best way to go about business, as I can put useful stuff on my desktop and all the open windows don't clutter my screen all the time.