create a swap file with 4 GB of space: This was my problum when installing docker i had to create a swap file and it worked same error code, so let me know if this works! Source: This Post 

You should then see a list of options, press 2, then press enter Then follow the on-screen instructions to enter your e-mail. Remote3.it will send you an e-mail with a verification code that you must enter by selecting 3 from this menu. After that, your account is active and you can add devices and services. In this case, website! Now that you have created an account, select option 1, then log in. Note that the password is not displayed as you type. Next, as there are no services yet installed, you will be asked to enter the Device Name. Valid characters include numbers, letters, space, underscore, and dash. After you have entered your name, Press 1 to attach remot3.it to one of your services. Select the type of service you are connecting to, in this case a web server so press 2 then hit enter! You will then be asked if the default port 80 is the port to use press y, if you aren't on port 80 then put n, and then the correct port! You can repeat this with as many ports as needed! Select a name for the service, for example Pi-Web After you enter the name, a few more seconds passes while it is registered to your account. Next, you will be returned to the Installed remot3.it Services menu. Now your attachment to the web service is shown. Press 4 to exit or register a new service or port with the corresponding Keys! Navigate to $URL$ and sign in! You will see your devices there and can go to the link provided in your remote3.it account to access server! This link changes regularly! You don't need to port forward your router though! Remote3.it Official Tutorial Here 

Packages On Hold will not upgrade. On Hold packages may cause inconsistencies after Stretch upgrade. Before you move to the following part, it is suggested to fix all issues provided by both above commands. 

Install Chromium on your Raspberry Pi with apt-get At first, we have to update our packages. Open a terminal and type in: 

I have a pi recording ignition sounds of industrial equipment that we can't monitor otherwise. It has been running for 4 months non stop and I have had no problems with it. If your concern is a reboot for power outage or anything else, write a script in the bootloader to automatically start playing the video. That way if there is a break in the power, the pi will automatically start playing the video as soon as it boots. 

Method 2: This solution works really well. Once the browser loads there is a small black square in the top left of the screen which seems to be a general bug (its mentioned on forums by others) but otherwise the fullscreen mode hides everything except the browser page. Edit the autostart file: 

Now you can check out the needed files (about 15 GB). Make sure that your micro SD card (32GB or more) has enough empty disk space. 

Last, chance to check for any system inconsistencies. Perform database sanity and consistency checks for partially installed, missing and obsolete packages: 

Now that we have a list of all our button codes we can move on to actually writing the configuration file. For example I have this to map the Thumb Button Up and Thumb Button Down buttons to switching workspace in my Gnome shell, these keycombinations are specific to my setup so you will need to chnage them. What I’m doing here is pressing the ‘Windows’ key ‘Left Control’ then ether ‘Down’ or ‘Up’ then releasing the other two keys… 

Next, we clone the whole repository to a specific folder, which we create and then go into this directory. 

Press F3 key to save changes and F2 to close the file. Then restart dphys-swapfile to apply changes: 

Bellow I’ve included a table for the Logitech MX mouse, these will probably be if you have a newer, or older mouse 

It’s OK if apt-get reports that none of these packages are installed. The contents of /var/lib/docker/, including images, containers, volumes, and networks, are preserved. The Docker CE package is now called docker-ce. Extra steps for Wheezy 7.7 You need at least version 3.10 of the Linux kernel. Debian Wheezy ships with version 3.2, so you may need to update the kernel. To check your kernel version: 

You may need to run this command as sudo or it will not return anything. This command should list a line for every cronjob that is currently running. That’s the basics of setting up a cronjob on the Raspberry Pi using the terminal. As usual be sure to comment below if you have any questions. 

Restart services during package upgrades without asking? The choice is about whether you wish the system to restart your services automatically during the system upgrade or you wish to do it manually or after the system is fully upgrade to Stretch. When ready, execute the bellow commands to commence the Debian Stretch upgrade process: 

Install and activate ExaGear on your RPi by running install-exagear.sh script in a directory with deb packages and one license key: 

Enable the backports repository. See the Debian documentation. Install Docker CE: See this post: $URL$ 

Google Chrome is CPU intensive application, therefore, we recommend to increase swap space. Open configuration file in Terminal (command line) using the following command: 

The first asterisk represents the minutes, followed by the hours, day of the month, the month, and day of the week. You can leave a point with an asterisk and it will execute the command on all the values. For example if you would like something to run everyday then you would leave the day of the month, month, day of the week with asterisk and only edit the values for minute and hours. It may seem very annoying to write out the cron command if the time schedule is very complicated or long. I recommend using a cron command generator which allows you to select the time, days of week, and months to run your cron job. Once you put a new cron job in the crontab go ahead and save it using CTRL+X and then Y to save your new cron jobs. View Scheduled Task: To view your currently scheduled cron job tasks type the following command: 

This is great news because all we need to do now is map each button against the desired application/keystroke. My system of choice is Ubuntu 10.10 as of writing, this has since changed to Fedora so all the command line and install command listed are correct for this distributions as of writing. If you find other commands work on other distributions leave a not in the command and I will be sure to update the main article. The Install Instructions for a fresh install We should install xbindkeys. This will re-map mouse and keyboard inputs so the install is… 

Requested Update: for other keyboard letters (eg. è,é,etc...), get a virtual (onscreen) keyboard: First thing to do: 

Important Note: MariaDB is now the default SQL database in Debian 9 Stretch. This introduces a new database binary data file format which is not backwards compatible with your current ( Debian 8 Jessie ) database format. During the upgrade your databases will be upgraded automatically. However, when you run into some issues during or after the upgrade, you will not be able revert back! From this reason it is important to backup all your current databases before you proceed with a Debian 9 Stretch upgrade! REFERENCE: debian.org Now lets begin to update you: Start by fully upgrade your current Raspbian system before you proceed with a Stretch upgrade. 

Raspbian has 100MB of swap by default. You should change it to 2000MB in the configuration file. So you will have to find this line: 

The above name came really be anything as your really just creating a new file just make sure it has the .sh extension! Add the following to ssh-boot.sh: 

Use the below command to see what we are facing. It is a simulated dry-run thus not system changes will be implemented.