If you have Windows 7 Home Premium, you will need to upgrade to Windows 7 Ultimate, to change whole system language (windows, menus, etc, to english). :/ 

In full screen mode, F11 key, you actually keep seing the tabs (at least in Firefox 3.6) , and the url entry field. Move over there the cursor, and it shows and hides if move it over. If want it fixed there always, just right click in any empty space in the top area -not in the white url field- and uncheck "Hide Toolbar". Full screen would remove window title bar. To remove (B) just go to "View" Menu, Toolbars, uncheck Bookmarks toolbar. Edit: Cross posting, did not see db answer. 

You might also want to try Scribus (it does import EPS, it has a solid CMYK support, and I don't know till what extent, but saves as svg) , or, SK1 project. But this last one yet only works in linux. (soon to appear OSX and Windows ports) The difference with Inkscape (for just the conversion) seems to be a better CMYK and other printing features support. 

You will notice the difference. Yet though there are much more features in a disk to care about. (cache, single plate or not, access, seek times, etc) The rpm is only one more factor. About the noise, power consuming, etc, you can check in storage section of silentpcreview.com. Of course check more details on tomshardware.com , anandtech, etc (those often speak about power usage and noise). Consider the noise in a laptop can be a bit more evident, but often depends on how it's all built. I have seen laptops with 7200rpm disk, not real noise, in my personal perception. 

Photoshop, menu File/Automate/Batch... There, you can select the IN folder, and OUT one... You have a field to choose which Action (is like a macro, you previously must have created one) to perform over all the files in input folder. Hit the button and that is it. It will take some minute, but thousand times faster than by hand: often also you need batch operation with psd layers and complex layer modes and groups kept, not possible with external programs. There are many tutos in internet on how to make a Photoshop action, but basicly, you just hit certain "rec" button in Actions panel, type a name for the action, do whatever needed in Photoshop, and then hit stop bottom. You can then execute that action over any file, or set it in the "Automate" proccess I told you above. Just remember: when doing an action for this, you'd better not do very specific steps, that will not work for a bunch of different files, or may stop with an error. For my video game graphics, I used this quite a lot, for sprites, tiles, etc. A life saver. Like always, better if you use PNGs or PSDs as sources, you can include in a certain way the output as JPGs (for formats output I tend to prefer the mentioned here Irfanview, but all can be done. ) 

You could also try installing Wampstack and lampstack from bitnami, makes it quite easy. $URL$ (those two I think are at the bottom in that page) There are other stacks made for other servers... The stacks are like installers for several platforms, but doing it easy. Would be easier so to compare both, as is very fast to have it running or uninstall them. 

There are several possibilities. In certain job, we used to create images with Image Magic (not Image Magick) if I remember well. We had remote images(like systems cloned) in certain local server, one image per type of computer/hardware. It was a matter of 30 mins in download + setup, no user interaction. These days, probably one of the best options is Clonezilla. 

Can't remember if PS 7 had the feature, but try selecting all canvas (ctrl + a), then provided that the object is solid (even if has transparency) and the remaining background of the layer where it is, is transparent, and that you are actually on that layer (selected in layers dialog), then, go to top menu "Layer", then "Align layers to selection", then "Left Edges", then top menu "Layer" again, "Align layers to selection", then "top edges". That should do it. 

I'd also vote for Virtualdub(have done actually this operation, can't remember if were these many). Is also easy later on to remove frames you don't want, etc. Maybe you could try using a lossless video format to render and store it, like camstudio codec. For a timelapse...maybe is also ok techsmith codec (TSCC), but that works only if you have purchased (or obtained an old version from a magazine) Camtasia, as it installs the encoding version of the codec. It makes really small videos. And probably is apropiate for a time lapse. 

you might want to try as well Ranish Partition Manager. Worked great for me in the tasks of: Having Windows boots + several linuxes, etc. Restoring a linux boot. Restoring a dos/windows boot, etc. There are also more updated free softwares for this: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Another way, if the circle is alone in a solid color (ie: white) canvas, is using the magic wand tool, and depending on if it's or not a subtle contrast circle border/background put it lower or higher tolerance in magic wand settings (10 to 32 can work, depending on case), antialiasing setting checked, click on canvas background (outside the circle), ctrl + shift + i (in Windows) to invert the selection, now you can ctrl + c that. The advantage of this is it'd work also for other kind of shapes. Obviously will need help of other commands if there's more complexity in background, etc. 

Might sound a bit too simple, but I find myself often in that situation, to discover that I actually have it installed , but is not loaded or running at the moment. Other times, having a load of services in some systems, I don't see it in the list because in some cases is named differently (but Tomcat word is in it, somehow). Anyway, if you keep having issues, at Bitnami.org there is an installer for Tomcat, it might make things easier. 

Answered in other question, but an useful tool (to be combined with , for example VirtualDub, etc) is $URL$ 

It could be how it is configured in control panel/power options/advanced the action of the power on button, i would also check that in your BIOS menu(many let you configure there these butttons). Anyway, in laptops and some PCs keyboards, there is a hibernation or suspension key. I would check if there's one for that. Also, try hitting cursor keys after/before hitting the power or hibernation button. It might be having both suspension and hibernation at a time, or it might be even some graphical problem, ie, screensaver (deactivate it to eliminate as a factor). If you totally switch off, is expected that you would not recover your software sessions. 

$URL$ Is actually a desktop application, with a GUI. besides is my favourite viewer (really fast, light weight and powerful for many things) , it allows what you need: -Open the image with it -Hit "i" key, or the button with the "i" in top bar, or top menu image/information. -See on "number of unique colors" in that pop up. (leave marked allwas in that pop up dialog "autocunt") That's it, done usually in one second or less. EDIT: Sorry, you said "list" not count... Well, I'll leave my answer here in case is of some use. 

yes, Fraps is great if you don't mind the watermark. Some people spoke me well about Taksi. Is open source. You may want to give it a try : $URL$ 

ctrl + c actually stops many commands in Linux and ms dos batches.... it was so since years in the past... Unluckily is the same command to copy stuff in Windows... Look if it's related to this. Anyway, something should appear, some message of interruption. Usually anyway, there are other ways to copy the text from console. In XP DOS window, click right mouse button, "Mark" and drag a sort of window to select.(that'd copy it).In linux, it depends, often just selecting it.