Open a command box. Change to the root of the drive with this command: . Do a to find out where the file is located. Open up Explorer, and go find the file. Right click on it, and check the Properties>Details tab. 

I did an NSLOOKUP of several hosts I know using your DNS servers. They are refusing queries. You need to change your DNS servers. You can use Google's: 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 If you can ping them, you have Internet connectivity, and you just need to fix resolution. 

Your files should indeed be at c:\windows\csc, at least by default. You can check this registry entry to see where yours are: 

The other answer is partially correct, but they do not "exist only in 64bit versions of Win7". They also exist in XP 64-bit, Vista 64-bit, Server 2003 64-bit, Server 2008 64-bit, etc. Native 64-bit applications run in "Program files"; and "Program Files (x86)" serves as backward compatibility for 32-bit applications running on a 64-bit platform. 

I would not do it since it is running perfectly well right now. The chances are greater that you will disrupt the proper airflow that engineers designed and tested. Just make sure the fan you currently have is in good shape, and if you want to do anything, just have a spare for when it eventually dies. 

You can't copy just the data in one disk...it is all over both disks. You will have to treat them as one disk, and copy all the data off. Image the disk ASAP, because if one actually fails, your situation just became 100 times harder. 

What specifically did you update? You ran Microsoft updates? Boot into safe mode and see if it still happens. While there run 

Go into the Control Panel>Network and Internet>Network and Sharing Center>Manage Wireless Networks Click on the one you want, hit F2 and rename it. To answer the second part, right-click on the connection, and hit properties. You can set it to automatically connect there by checking the top box, "Connect automatically when this network is in range". 

If it is XP Pro, the easiest way to fix this is to change the Terminal Services settings using gpedit.msc on the computer you are connecting to. You then navigate to: 

In both Server 2003 and Windows 7, it is located in Control Panel>Administrative Tools>Data Sources. 

This temp directory can be emptied at any time. That was just a service pack that was installed to another location. That file is no longer used. 

Have you tried this hotfix: $URL$ I would disable hibernation, delete c:\hiberfil.sys, then reenable it. Hiberfil.sys is a hidden file, you will need to enable viewing of hidden files by opening Computer, hitting the ALT key, and going to Tools>Folder Options>View and click "Show hidden files, folder, and drives". You may also want to uncheck "Hide protected operating system files". This is how to disable and reenable hibernation: $URL$ Have you updated your graphics driver? I also found an interesting solution on the Internet: Is your computer using readyboost, and if so, how is the drive formatted? If so, make sure that it is formatted in NTFS. $URL$ I would also look at this: $URL$ (this has been updated to include Windows 7). 

Yes, of course. You can buy them directly from Microsoft, and Dell also allows you to buy them as download versions. $URL$ 

Either open firewall ports, or temporarily turn the software firewalls off. Then do your sharing. After you are done, make sure you turn the firewalls back on, especially, or at least, on the laptop. 

JasCav, this seems to have happened to many people, and for whatever reason, the second time they try to install it, it works. I would try again at least one more time. Also, as a kind of secret thing (at least at the time, this was not easily found on the Internet...but who knows now?) that I figured out a long time ago: I have had SQL Service Pack updates fail before, and I resolved it by creating a Software Restriction Policy. This may not be related here, but a good idea to do, and it is still possible it may help. 

I would first try plugging it into a different USB port, and then into a different computer to rule out the port or the drive having gone bad, which overall, is more likely, and is easier to test. That is not to say it can't be an update though, but it could just be coincidence. 

To be honest, I do not see how you will have your batch file automatically stop your services, unless the program allows you to run commands on close, which is not common at all. If the batch file runs and stays open in the background, it may do it when you exit the program, but do you really want a command box open the whole time while you use your program, and wait for you to end using it? That would drive me crazy. I would use your batch file to start the services, then launch the program, and not worry about the services stopping until a reboot does it for you, or create a separate batch file to stop the services if you really want. Here is the sample batch file to get started: net start ServiceName net start Service_Name "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office14\winword.exe" You can find the real names of the services needed for net start/stop here: 

I have never really thought much about calculating the speed, but clearly there is real overhead associated with this kind of transfer. I searched on Google and found post after post with speeds as you described, making me thing you are on to something. I just whipped out a USB 2.0 1TB Seagate external drive, formated it, and decided to copy a sampling large enough to test with: 13,595,211,905 bytes (about 12GBs). I am running Symantec Endpoint Protection AV. According to this calculator, it should have taken only 3:46 minutes to copy with 0% overhead, but it actually took 9:17, and my speed dropped to 23.9 MB/sec actually. I then rebooted (to clear the memory), and tried it without my AV running and it still took 9:15, or only 2 seconds less (I guess that is good news for Symantec AV at least). It would appear that those really are "theoretical numbers".