communicating with the Amazon Kindle store receiving content you emailed to your kindle's address. (experimentally) browsing the Internet. 

The easiest way to install a software package is to use the distro's package manager. There's probably a GUI installer but I'd open a terminal window and type 

If in doubt, shut-down and turn off the server before connecting or disconnecting. The HP server spec will say if a particular SCSI interface supports hot-plugging. This is often abbreviated to "HP" or "non-HP" (which can cause confusion). 

Firstly, the message is your primary clue. Your MacBook Pro's network configuration isn't fully functional. Perhaps the MacBook is configured with some static settings that overide the settings that are obtainable by DHCP from your cable broadband modem or router? Secondly MacBooks and iPads run different operating systems. It is possible that this has some bearing on the problem. Either in the way these devices pick up wireless settings or in the way tracert/traceroute work (normally they use ICMP protocol but some variants use TCP - it is possible that ICMP is blocked at some router/firewall) On the Macbook Pro, can you get it to display it's network settings - chiefly default gateway and DNS servers? E.g. If you can see the equivalent informatio on the iPad - look for differences. 

No, you just use port-forwarding (which is different to NAT) for incoming connections. NAT takes care of distinguishing between existing connections and associating each with an internal IP-address. 

The trouble is, if you are a programmer, writing code to substitute values into templates is often a relatively easy solution. I find Perl is very suited to many sorts of text manipulation. For example: $URL$ 

It very likely has a name. It is just that you are having trouble finding out what the name is. For example, it is easy to create a directory with a name of " " 

Large files are likely to be non-contiguous on disk. This just means that the data is scattered in several places, not all together. A consequence is that when a file is deleted, another file can be written to an area of disk that used to be in the middle of the deleted file. If you then attempt to recover the deleted file, depending on the details of the internals of how the file system allocates and tracks space, you can recover overwritten fragments as well as intact fragments. This produces files that are corrupted. They are no longer valid video files. It can be possible to examine the files at a detailed level and painstakingly correct the errors but this probably means skipping over or cutting out totally incomprehensible parts and synthesizing some new parts to tie the intact fragments back together. 

It is possible that the product used to generate your files has evolved into Portalyx SDL XPP. It might be worth contacting them. See XPP Personal Edition Identified via a dead link on a Wikipedia page which mentioned XyVision XPP. 

The display system for the original IBM PC in text mode had a very simple memory mapping for the 80x24 text screen. You could poke values into bytes in a certain area of memory and characters would appear on the display. The characters for each byte value were determined by a video ROM which had bitmapped display characters for all 256 values of each byte. This included displayable characters for ASCII control characters (0-31). Many contemporary printers had the same character set and could often be set into a literal-print mode where these control characters were printed rather than acted on (a carriage return would be printed as a character, it would not cause the print head to return to the left edge of the paper). See Wikipedia 

isn't a shell! It is the sort of entry that is used to disable telnet logins. You are not going to get anywhere with this. If you really want to use an insecure protocol like telnet instead of a secure protocol like ssh, you'll have to configure the telnet service to provide you with a proper shell. 

The "ÿþ" could be a Unicode Byte Order Mark (BOM) and the ^@ could be the first byte of each 16-bit Unicode character. Use recode or iconv to convert it from UTF-16 to ASCII. 

Object Oriented Perl If your focus is on learning Object-Oriented Perl, not on learning Pogo, I suggest you just follow one of perl's built-in tutorials by running the command: . This would quickly lead you to the following solution: file Person.pm 

Since your example files don't have a line 11, I have worked on the basis of your stated "(last line)". 

I suspect that 2 is a subset of 1 anyway. I'm pretty sure we'd have heard if Amazon had implemented SMB or FTP or any other such protocol. I imagine they want to keep the device as simple, secure and foolproof as they can and other protocols might pose more problems in those areas than they'd want to provide support for. Warning: The above is largely one person's opinion and/or speculation resulting from a few week's use of a Kindle 4. 

ISPs often block port 80 because their terms of service prohibit end-users running web-servers. Some (most?) router will allow you to forward a high-numbered external port to a different numbered internal port (strictly this is Port Address Translation (PAT) but usually it is just part of the port-forwarding facility). SO you could forward external port 8080 (say) to internal port 80 at the internal IP-address of your computer. If you configured the router to forward port 8080 to port 80 The URL you have to use from outside your own LAN would be something like where 123.45.67.89 would be replaced by the external IP-address of your router as shown by services such as WhatsMyIP.com. If your ISP does not allocate a static IP-address to you, your IP-address will change from time to time. You can register with a dynamic DNS service so that you can always used a fixed name such as 

Plug a suitable lead from the line-out socket of your laptop to the line-in socket of the amplifier unit of the DAV-DZ340. 

Dragging the "+" around the "Customize" window only resulted in it snapping to the left edge, to the left of the tabs. It seemed impossible to get the "+" to stick to the right of the rightmost opened tab. After restoring defaults, the "+" was where I wanted it and it was also then much more amenable to being relocated to a greater variety of positions. 

The latter is part of "stateful packet inspection". The router/firewall tracks the state of active TCP connections. So usually you don't have to explicitly permit replies to newly opened inbound ports. For example, when I configure a router to allow inbound traffic to destination port 22 for SSH I don't have to also specify any additional rules concerning the replies (from source port 22 to any destination port#). 

There are specifications for testing and certifying terminated Ethernet cables and fixed Ethernet wiring 

It's probably because 1) you probably have some complicated set of scripts and/or aliases and/or environment variables that cause your arguments to be evaluated multiple times and 2) you are using the wrong type of quotes. When you use the shell will process escapes converting to . You may be happier using single quotes: compare 

You may find it interesting to read $URL$ - though that applies more to deleted files than to overwritten ones. However if you previously edited your overwritten file, it is likeley that the editor left several deleted copies on disk as a natural part of the editing process. 

It should be trivial in any text editor. In gvim for the current line the command might be Is there any special reason you wish to avoid regular expressions? 

(The key name and type are and respectively.) There may have been some incorrect values (or missing entries) that cause the described problem. Using and to attempt to correct this obviously carries fewer risks than editing the registry directly. 

There is no direct equivalent to Unix on Windows. The University of Georgia have a brief list of Windows commands for Unix users I find the older Windows command prompt and .bat scripting is rather limited compared to Unix shells but there are some facilities for looping over files etc. CommandWindows.com has some tips You could either install on Windows (e.g. by installing CygWin) or learn Windows Powershell (which I am assuming has a means of doing something equivalent). 

It should be clear that you can use this approach for your program as you know the prompt strings and you know what responses to feed it. 

The text data might be present in sectors no longer associated with the filename. If your operating system is Windows, you could try running chkdsk. If the data is valuable you should stop using the system, boot from a rescue CD and make a backup before using the rescue CD to attempt to retrieve the data. Otherwise any traces of the data that are in unallocated sectors will soon become irretrievably overwritten. The classic answer is to restore from last night's backups and re-do any changes. 

I would suspect the NIC. Replacement NICs are cheap, I'd not hesitate long before buying one. Other ideas... 

telnet to it and type "?" (I'm assuming it is connected via a JetDirect widget/box/card like most networked HP printers on the planet) Of course, you will probably have to do this from a PC with an IP-address in the same network as the printer (IP-range and mask). This is why network people have laptops/netbooks/fancy-gadgets 

A Virtual Private Network (VPN) is used to link two private networks into a single virtual network by passing data encrypted across a public network (usually the Internet) or an untrusted third party network. A typical use-case is for linking a small sub-office to a company's main office or for linking a mobile worker to the main office network for access to file-servers, mail and other resources. The VPN can be created by running software on two computers that are connected to the public network. Alternatively, many routers can act as VPN endpoints and can set up VPN connections as needed. 

Without the rewriting rules you could use any simple HTTP server, such as tthttpd. You could also use IIS etc etc 

At the server, the Escape sequence is first processed by the TTY handler (looking for Interrupt signals etc) and then given to your server program which typuically hands it to the library which translates Escape sequences back into names of Functions. The program then decides what to do as a result of receiving that. The actual Escape Sequence depends on the "terminal emulation". By default, Putty emulates an xterm. The Curses library uses the value of environment variable TERM to look up in terminfo what function is represented by an escape sequence. 

Don't use the laptop for any normal activity. If you have ever used it for banking, contact your bank, explain what has happened and get their advice about securing your bank accounts. At the very least you should change any passwords. If you have any valuable documents, photos etc on the laptop. Really you should have a separate backup (e.g. on DVD-ROMs or on an external USB disk). If you don't, use a different computer to create a bootable rescue disk (example) and use that to "boot" the infected laptop and make an external copy of your valuable data. Before proceeding, check the copy contains everything you need. Supplied with the laptop you should have a system-recovery CD or DVD. If you do, use that to reformat the computer and restore it to the way it was when it was new. All your data will be lost. If you don't have a recovery disk of some sort, check the manual to see if the computer has a recovery partition in it's hard disk - you may have to press some special keys whilst turning on the laptop. If none of these apply, contact the seller or manufacturer - they may be able to sell you a recovery disk. If all else fails, I would buy and install a retail version of Windows (check your laptop can run the currently available version). Restore your valuable data from your daily backup or from the backup you made in step 2.