Computer B needs to have a default gateway if it needs to communicate with endpoints on a different subnet. Typically, endpoints get their default gateway from a DHCP server automatically. 

Edited Even Newer Answer: Do it the other way around. Apply the ACL outbound on the dynamically addressed interface since you know the address of the other interface. Possibly a route-map too. Behavior of packet handling within a router is specific to IOS architecture - you may need to investigate order of operation, etc. Edited new answer: "setup an access-list to grant access to a service" so the service can be profiled to port(s) used/required. Just apply the ACL on the service (ports) without worrying about specifying an IP. 

A session typically involves a handshake and some back and forth communication whereas a flow may not involve a handshake and the communication may be uni-directional. Think of a Web session vs a multicast flow. 

With a PRI gateway, you can set it up as MCGP controlled or as an H.323 gateway. I know that (back a few years ago), MGCP was not supporting passing name and number. That may be fixed now. Look at how your PRI gateway is configured. This is a classic (and old) question. You'll be able to get it working, provided your carrier is delivering it - which they should be (just ask them). $URL$ 

It sounds like you are wanting to configure IRB. See Cisco's Understanding and Configuring VLAN Routing and Bridging on a Router Using the IRB Feature. Expert advice: simply purchase a switch if you need more Ethernet ports. 

Easy, provided you have access to these networking devices (switches). Log in and ask it to tell you who it's layer 2 neighbors are. If Cisco that's and if not it's probably . Adding the keyword to the end of that command will tell you the IP address of the networking device it sees. Telnet/SSH into that device and repeat. This will give you a layout. and see the mac address of the IP address and then and trace it home. 

The IP address you are assigned by your ISP may change over time. You should be able to contact your provider and ask for a static IP address. They may charge you more though... 

An SNMP server collects traps from SNMP agents running on managed devices which could be networking devices such as a switch or a server. Setup typically requires installing a network management server which will have the SNMP server functionality and then configuring the agent to talk to the server. 

Jesse, the task should not be very difficult. Your issue may be the order of operation. Firewall rules are prioritized and the order of statements is significant. Also, statements are applied in one direction so you will need to account for egress as well as ingress packets. Hope that helps. 

It is handled by a protocol stack, namely, an Internet Protocol Stack. For example, there is the Lightweight Internet Protocol Stack. Once you get to the link layer, e.g. Ethernet or WiFi, you are then talking about firmware functionality. 

ICMP is a protocol itself. See INTERNET CONTROL MESSAGE PROTOCOL. There is no higher level protocol required. For example, in Cisco IOS, some ICMP access lists look like: 

Don't. SNMP is and has always been a crappy protocol. Use the REST (HTTP) API. See Brocade's REST API Intro: 

According to my expert analysis, it appears that the default gateway address is miconfigured on the DHCP server. That's why the phones cannot register. 

The 'Intelligence at the Edge' design is misleading in light of where the computer networking industry has evolved, and is evolving, to - SDN fashioned architectures where the intelligence is now centralized ยน in the controllers. In a cloud networking, or SDN fashioned architecture, you find 'intelligent' controllers and separation of control and data planes. The original idea behind 'Intelligence at the Edge' was that required deep packet inspection / manipulation would not be practical at the core where gazillions of pps are processed/forwarded. Deep packet inspection/modification still occurs at the edge but the decision on what to inspect and what to do with the packets is made and pushed out to the edge from network 'controllers'. ยน centralized controllers are likely physically distributed across data centers or physical locations for redundancy purposes. 

OSPF does not advertise VLAN information. Cisco's VTP does. OSPF does not form peering sessions like BGP does, it establishes neighbor relationships; the time to live (TTL) value of OSPF packets is 1. To get your OSPF processes to establish a neighbor relationship, each layer 3 switch (aka router) needs to share a layer2 (Ethernet) link and IP subnet. 

You've configured the same subnets at each site across a routed link/interface? Looks like you [think that you] want to bridge the traffic rather than route it. If that's the case, you need configure bridging. Configuring Transparent Bridging Bridging Bridges connect and transfer data between LANs. The following are four kinds of bridging: Transparent bridging - found primarily in Ethernet environments, and is mostly used to bridge networks which have the same media types. Bridges keep a table of destination addresses and outbound interfaces. Source-Route Bridging (SRB) - found primarily in Token Ring environments. Bridges only forward frames based on the routing indicator contained in the frame. Endstations are responsible for determining and maintaining the table of destination addresses and routing indicators. For more information, refer to Understanding and Troubleshooting Local Source-Route Bridging. Translational bridging - used to bridge data between different media types. This is typically used to go between Ethernet and FDDI or Token Ring to Ethernet. Source-Route Translational Bridging (SR/TLB) - a combination of source-route bridging and transparent bridging that allows communication in mixed Ethernet and Token Ring environments. Translational bridging without routing indicators between Token Ring and Ethernet is also called SR/TLB. For more information, refer to Understanding and Troubleshooting Source-Route Translational Bridging. Bridging happens at the data-link layer, which controls data flow, handles transmission errors, provides physical addressing, and manages access to the physical medium. Bridges analyze incoming frames, make forwarding decisions based on those frames, and forward the frames to their destinations. Sometimes, such as in SRB, the frame contains the entire path to the destination. In other cases, such as in transparent bridging, frames are forwarded one hop at a time toward the destination. Bridges can be either remote or local. Local bridges provide direct connections between many LAN segments in the same area. Remote bridges connect LAN segments in different areas, usually over telecommunication lines. 

Sure. Simply plug each cable into a multi-port Ethernet card on the Web server, or, into an Ethernet switch or bridge if your server has only 1 NIC. Configure the Web server with an IP address corresponding to the subnet on each cable if using a multiport NIC card. If using a switch or bridge and single server NIC, configure a secondary, tertiary, and quaternary IP addresses on the single NIC. Note: in case of a single server NIC, an endpoint in subnet A could be configured with a secondary IP address in Subnet B and in that case it could communicate with devices on subnet B, so if security is a huge concern, you'll need a layer3 switch to assign a unique subnet for the server then use access lists to disallow inter-subnet (inter-vlan) routing.