Radioshack sells a VOM that has a serial port and a API to interact with the meter. You could get a "premade" device such as this if it has a customizable API. Then just code a pi interface to it. edit: requested link RadioShack 22-812 

I tried Ubuntu 16 once, nothing worked well at all. Slow as you state, the packages that installed were not up to our project standards we have (example mysql was impossible to remote into). Various bugs elsewhere too. Symlinks failed to work correctly. Set a link and it was like running down a tunnel that wrapped back on itself. So far Raspbian runs very smooth and impressed with it's performance as a dev and server platform. I doubt Ubuntu 16 has the needed kernel compiles for the rpi. So it is bound to run horrible regardless unless you compile it yourself and find everything you need. That said, in short, you are not alone and that performance is normally experienced by many. However, I would seriously avoid clocking it up to boost performance on an OS that is not very compatible with it. You will be looking to replace it sooner than later. 

There are many approaches. Guess the simplest is to use a HTTP form that send to a cgi (in your case directly a python script) You need to 

I am running "Sixaxis" PS3 controller on RetroPi (RPi 3). In the beginning i had some trouble but following this tutorial i could pair the controller without issues. They are working great with the RetroPi. On this Github site is a list of other controllers and how connect them to the RetroPi. But mostly there are no comments how good they are working later. Imho the PS3 controller feels little bit more laggy than on the PS3. This is my very subjective experience... maybe this would disappear with some tweaks. 

instead of the black boot screen you can run a theme, show a logo or play a vid. for this install plymouth 

To stop a service doesn't prevent the deamon to start the service on boot. For this you should deactivate the service to come up on all run levels A simple command for this on raspbian is 

Do you already have pub key in .ssh/authorized_keys? You need to enabled key based authentication in : 

Have a look at htpasswd from apache: htpasswd The steps to create this can be quite confusing, but in the end you can lock out ANY endpoint url/directory on your server with a user/password prompt. Key notes from this link in case the link changes: 

Effectively you would power a small router or something that provides a external connection (from the same power source) that can cause a drop in LAN connectivity on the pi if it is shut off. It would have to be something that has a lower tolerance for power drops than the pi so it shuts off first. Then on the pi you have it ping that LAN and if it does not show connected it does a 'shutdown now' Granted this would reduce battery life considerably, but it is a non-GPIO/hack to achieve what you are looking for. 

Boot to recovery with a working internet connection. It should show in the list. If you don't have a internet connection on instal it seems to hang as the win install bits try to authorize your Microsoft account for the install. 

and a script that scrape the SSISD form the output and write this to a text file. Use this text file to provide a select list in the config web site. This "get ssid" script run periodical you can use some ajax to refresh the config web page... ... but this is maybe just an approach if you have many users or like to fiddle around. ;) 

does the response give the IP of the Raspberry? If not there is a DNS issue. If you know the IP of your Raspberry try to connect using the IP: 

Based on your comment, I recommend to check pigpio where a Java wrapper exists. The library​ is maintained by another user of this community. The wrapper is also well documented. I think with this you can develop bit more efficient. 

If you later want the webserver starts again on default just type ' With the comand you bring up the web server on demand. 

now you need to config the display manager /etc/gdm3/daemon.conf and let the pi unser log in automatically 

with this settings your raspberry will boot without showing output and present a custom boot screen. if you dont want something else on raspberry that a browser and your web page in kiosk mode, raspbian-lite with Matchbox as window manager is sufficient. 

These ips aren't either of my pis on the network, so i'm guessing they'e my Laptop. The bit i'm interested in is the "crash","down and "pts/o". Could someone please explain what these are? 

Thanks Bex for your help :) I think it's working now by changing the uid and gid to motion in the fstab davfs mount command. I used this page for reference. I also noticed that the mounted directory had 0777 permissions with user pi, then I modified the fstab file then did a reboot; to test the re mount. Following the reboot the permissions changed to 0755 with user motion ; this may explain how the permissions could change, as you suspected. I'm happy, thanks again, Reggie :) P.S. I didn't change the rw to rwx after looking at the above link, i didn't think it was valid. 

and the resultant jpg output of an integer of value 10: I'm assuming eclipse doesn't complain when you ask it to convert the number 10 to a jpg, but the PI does! 

I have a streaming server / motion detection script that works on my laptop, but when I move it to my PI it gives the following error when i try and access the stream: 

last days one of my Pi2 crashed over night. At morning i realized the Pi is down (no response on network, plugged to monitor and keyboard did not give any response) I plug out/in the power supply to restart the Pi. The red and green LED are on bright and steady. Okay first thought was a corrupt SD card, i put the card in another Pi2 and it booted without any issue. Back in the faulty Pi again both LEDs are on. I tried another SD card with a fresh downloaded Raspbian image but no changes - no boot. Changed the power supply no changes... seems to be dead. I was quite busy and couldn't investigate more so left the Pi without Power for 2 Days. Today i decided to throw it in the trash but before I plugged again the power and it booted. I rebooted serval times and the Pi seem not to have an issue. Now it runs since 7hrs in normal condition. 

I was reading lot and tried some approaches last days. The comfortable function from Rasbian Jessie, where you can copy a wpa_supplicant.conf to /boot which will be moved to /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf after next boot, was announced here in the blog of raspberrypi.org. In the raspberrypi.org forum, the user ShiftPlusOne (a Raspberry Engineer) indicate that this function is a part of the raspberrypi-net-mods package (but has dependencies to X gui.) I guess because of this dependencies the package isn't in Jessie-lite. On a Windows system there are some 3rd party tools, which make the ext4 read/write accessible. i have successfully edited the /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf on the SD card with both ExtFS (free for personal use) and Ext2Fsd (Open Source). Well in my opinion the easiest approach would be a pen drive Linux booted instead of windows or a Virtual Machine with Linux. 

A function that generates a sql log query if desired called loginlog() Then use some php to fire off the check: This is just an example.. 

I would think some existing UPS units designed specifically for the pi would be a far better approach. Some can allow for additional battery for longer life. I think if I remember correct, some can initiate a shut down on low battery as well. On top of this, I found a nifty design idea for something that may work. Raspberry Pi UPS Quoted from this link is the part I want to convey here: 

I also personally recommend using php pages and wrapping generated html in echo or return blocks. Thereby not exposing any function code to the browser. Like so (ultra simplistic example, showing only the result of $bar, but not how it was assigned.): 

Set the piece in place and use a paper clip to hold it, then use a heat gun on low air setting to solder it in. It will take some time to get it to the right heat and do not bump the unit at all during and for 5 mins after. Flat level stable surface and try to keep the heat off the rest of the board as much as you can. Also since it is near the SD slot where there is likely plastic in it, use some form of shield on the side of that to deflect heat from the slot. To answer the other question, it is likely a capacitor if it boots fine. I don't have a zero nor know where the schematics are off hand. But running it without the capacitor can be dangerous to the stability of the unit. Depending on what circuit it is for, you could "spike" voltage or have a voltage drop which depending on tolerances could fry other components. 

it is not nessesary to expand the file system, but gives you the maximum of available space of the SD card. Therefore it's recommended and in newer releases the resize will be done automatically ( i think i was reading something like that) Auto resize a part of NOOBs and will not be done in Raspbian. The downloaded images are mostly smaller than a SD Card and there will be disk space unused left on the card. By expanding the space this will be available for additional package installations or for data as user data, logs, ... The addidional space made available by resize cant be there by default, because after copying the image to the card raspbian doesn't know how much space is there or if the user wants to create another partitions with it. 

Yes this should be possible. You can link to different wpa_supplicant files in /etc/network/interfaces like 

I use Owncloud for a similar use case. As for Google Drive, OneDrive, ... you need a dedicated app (existing for iOS or Android) or you can access your own Owncloud with the browser. For desktop existing clients for Windows, OSX and Linux. For installing the Owncloud server on your RPi you need a Webserver with PHP support. If you want to access the files over internet, i'd suggest to use HTTPS. You can use self signed SSL certificates or a SSL cert from a trusted CA. Here is a tutorial for setting up a Owncloud with "Let's encrypt" certificates and here a tutorial for self signed certificates My Owncloud is running with self signed certificates, but the Let's encrypt certificates should be now the preferred solution (nevertheless it's good to learn more about generation of certificates). In my idea, if you just want to share few files with few persons a SQLite3 data base is sufficient. As storage you can use a flash drive for storing the files, this will minimize IO on your SD card. 

Could I reliably mount the same network drive on two PIs connected to the same internal network? At the moment, I have one PI moving pictures from its saved location, to its mounted network drive, linked to a Box account, each time its camera detects movement. What I'm concerned about is, if I duplicate the above system, I'll have two mounted devices pointed to one external drive; with the possibility of both PIs trying to upload files possibly at the same time. I'm using davfs2 to mount my network drive and have set up my PI like this 

4) does this script look effective? Is there anything obvious that may cause problems, that anyone, other than me, can see? 

Iv'e just managed to get a WIFI re connect script working and have been testing it by pulling the power on my router and re connecting it; sO far so good. It all seems to reconnect, but when I try and access the Apache server from my mobile phone, I get server not found! It works from within my WIFI, but not from the net. I haven't changed anything on my router, apart from rebooting it a few times I found this article on the net and wondered if it's not the script but noip's DUC (dynamic update client) not working. I don't seem to be able to log in to noip.com either! If NoIP is compromised/blocked by Microsoft, will things go back to normal, or do I have to search for an alternative free Dynamic update client. Any ideas? I don't think it's the script, as I can get access if I find out my external IP address, but hear it is anyway, just in case anyone can spot a reason why this may have upset my Apache server. 

With this little change the buttonStatus should be set correctly. Edit:fixed elsif .1 as C Malasadas suggested in comments. 

You should have a fixed IP address for your Raspberry (static or DHCP with fixed MAC - IP allocation). This address comes in the first "to" field. the first "from"should be your gateway address. with IPv4 could be like 

Pushing the button for more than 4 seconds, there are two valid IF conditions. You can use else if and use a range for the second condition: 

There can be different points why you cant connect your PI. The error message indicates that the domain can't be resolved. Try: 

can be an option to get some more memory during the apt-get process. If you run your raspberry without GUI try to reduce the memory allocated for graphics. 

Sometimes this hangs are traced back to memory issues. An indication can be if the CPU is not at 100%. The system seems to be unresponsive while swapping memory to SD card. Also check if there is sufficient space on your SD Card. 

some of this are CPU / IO intense processes. Open a second terminal and check if CPU is on 100%. Try to shut down some of the processes that consume high CPU. There can be different reasons why the system becomes unresponsive. Maybe you can find an hint in the logs. 

I found the reason why it wasn't working, I needed to set the permissions on the PI_pictures folder to 0777! for other users! 

Iv'e done some more tests and this is what ive found out, so far: a) I logged in to my pi via xming and putty as user pi. I then created a shortcut to the script, and ran it, which worked and created an image on the desktop of my pi. 

I've been looking in the syslog file to try and find out why this may be happening but i'm getting myself confused, so I've switched my attention to a patch, not a fix. From what I understand of the logs, the wifi seems to stop trying to re connect and will only reestablish following a reboot. A nasty but effective way of re establishing the connection, is to but I'm running a headless PI so I have to pull the power. Could someone give me some pointers on how to modify this script to force a reboot if the script has been called 10 times in succession, but the wifi is still down. Script