So, an increase in IDR will increase CPU usage during playback. How many IDR frames you want is up to you. It's more about maintaining quality than improving quality, as every time you completely refresh the video frame you are increasing the amount of data in the frame. A ton of IDR would necessarily mean a larger video filesize after encoding. On a side note, I notice you haven't gotten an answer to these questions yet at the Sorenson Media forums. If you paid $800 for this software (because that's what it costs, roughly), why haven't you contacted Sorenson Media directly for an answer to these questions? You paid for the support... they don't offer direct support to people who haven't paid for the software. I also got a majority of this information from Videohelp.com where I also see you posted and asked these questions... and you were quite specific about not wanting to have explanations about what these settings meant... you just wanted to be told the numbers to set these things at to get the best possible quality. You were also informed that it really wasn't possible to just give you numbers without explanations, since the numbers you want vary for the media that is to be encoded, and you provided no specifics on the media. Plus for some people with a powerful processor and with no intention of ever playing their encoded work on another machine, they would choose one set of settings. However, their encoded project would play like total garbage on someone else's machine. You said nothing about your intentions here. But as I pointed out, a couple of guys at Videohelp.com mentioned to you that you really need to TRY and UNDERSTAND these settings, so you can find the settings that work best for you. Seriously. 

Switch to Fiber Optic. You want your PAYING customers to have the best connection possible, then you need to PAY for the best connection possible. That means getting an ISP that can provide you with a fantastic bandwidth package. Think about it this way. All the packages offered for Home users... all that bandwidth offered in those packages is generally for one or two gamers at a time. Sure. Some people can pull off a few more consoles being connected AND playing online at the same time, but not really. So, multiply that 10mbps package by a factor of 5 and you start to see what you would need to have about 10 people with good connections on one plan. 50mbps. 100mbps would be even better. THAT'S where you start. Now, I have no idea what speed you have for your current plan. You didn't say. But the fact that you are running it all off a DSL modem implies you need to upgrade your connection speed. EDIT and make sure none of the consoles are using a wireless connection to get online. The last thing you need are a couple of people using bluetooth headsets in the place to disrupt the wireless connections between the consoles and the routers. 

Is she attempting to connect to your web server on an internal network (like, in the same office) or is this from another network (she's across town or in another state)? That's important information. You say "colleague" which implies that she is in the same office... but you aren't very clear on that. Have you forwarded port 80 traffic in your router to the computer that is running the web server? This is an important step if your colleague is not on the same IP subnet as you are. Your router would need to know what to do with those incoming requests for information. So, if you forgot to do that... meaning you forgot to go into your router and handle the port forwarding, that's something that needs to be done. Also, consider putting the web server computer on a static Internal IP address in the DHCP reservation table. That way, you just forward to one IP address, and you don't ever have to worry about changing that later. Does your router have a firewall as well? Again, this is something that needs to be expressed in your question, as to whether you have addressed it already, or you didn't even know it was there. Does your ISP allow you to host a web server on the connection plan you are currently paying for (don't be surprised if they don't, they want to charge money for everything they can)? You might have to change the port you are hosting the web server on, if your ISP blocks traffic on port 80. You might have to use a non-standard port of 81, or 8080 or something else, which would require you to set up some NAT table, or have this different port forwarded through the router and have your colleague always append a :81 or :8080 to the end of the IP address she attempts to connect to. Just as an example, Cox home service in New England blocks port 80 traffic like this, so people can't host their own web servers at home without having to do something like this. So... is there something you can do to get this to work? Most certainly. Of course, we need to know what you have done so far, and we need to know what you are working with so we can tell you what more you can do. 

So, if the PCI video card you purchase is a PCI-X card, and the PCI slot you use is a PCI-X slot, then it is possible for it to be as fast as a PCI-E x4 video card. But, this in a perfect world under perfect circumstances. In general, PCI-E is an improvement over PCI in every way, and you should expect PCI-E video cards, even in a PCI-E x4 environment, to out-perform older, standard PCI video cards. 

First, the iOS restrictions are quite broad, and don't get nearly as specific as you need them to get. These are the restrictions that are built into the device and included with the Operating System. So, understandably they are essentially useless to you. Since you are dealing with iPod Touch devices, they can only get online through a local wireless connection. So right there, you can limit SOME content (domain whitelist or blacklist depending on your router) but then when they are using another wireless connection they are once again accessing the internet wide open. There are companies like Mobicip that have developed a quasi-proxy based solution to web content filtering, but you need to pay them for the service, disable access to Safari/YouTube/The App Store and install their "safe" browser. As it stands, no existing solution will allow you to limit who they add to their list of Skype friends. You can (through skype) limit who you GET calls from, meaning you only get calls from friends, but you can't create a true Whitelist which completely blocks all potential non-listed contacts. Your kids could simply add another friend, whomever that friend might be. There is no control for disabling game access after a set amount of time. There isn't even a control to disable game access. You can limit or kill MULTI-Player game access... which would kill a game if it was only multi-player, but no way to install software that will shut down a game after an hour of play. You can filter music through iTunes by enabling the rating restrictions, but that won't affect music they get off the web. Overall, you are kind of in a bind. The iPod Touch wasn't designed to be a babysitter. You still have to be the parent. You have to make sure they are using it responsibly, and take it away from them when you don't want them doing things with it. So... the only real Parental Control for what you list that you want to do is YOU. 

Go ahead and create the bookmark. After you have saved it, bring up the list of bookmarks it is in, right click on it and edit it. Manually set it for whatever address you like. 

Download the image for Gparted. Burn a disc from the image, boot to the disc, select the D partition, and slide it to the right. This will put the unallocated space between the C and D partitions. You can then, in GParted, extend the C partition as well... and then apply the changes. 

There is no BIOS on your Mac Mini. Only EFI. That said, the files to update the EFI are here at Apple. That said, you are out of luck, as there is no non-OSX way to update the EFI. There is no Windows based tool for this, there is no hack in place for this. You must remember that Apple builds their computers to run their operating system. Yes, due to customer demands, they have provided a minimal amount of support for people who want to use another Operating System along side their OS... but the intent of Apple is not to build a generic computer that anyone can put any OS on and use any way they want. The intention of Apple is to build the computer they envision, running the OS they design and support. So... you can't really get upset with Apple if they don't provide a generic solution to updating the EFI, when what they want is for you to use their OS to update their EFI. 

Found that image on Tomshardware.it This is simply a contact that is broken when you insert the 3.5mm plug. When that contact is broken, no return signal is sent to the motherboard, so no audio is sent to the rear speaker port. When the headphone plug is removed from the front jack, the connection is re-established, so the audio signal is sent once again to the return pins, and thus to the rear audio out port. In newer/better quality motherboards, this can be controlled via software... where if you are using a program that can interact properly with your audio hardware and drivers, you can actually tell the software whether to send audio to the headphones, or the speakers. However, this functionality all depends on having the most up to date drivers, a motherboard that has audio hardware that offers this functionality, and software that offers the ability to send audio to different outputs. From what you say and show, you are dealing with a hardware function only. You could try to update your drivers, and you can see if you are given "expert" or "advanced" options... 

Most computer manufacturers will inform you in one way or another that unless there is a problem that will be solved by updating the BIOS, you should not update the BIOS. Roughly translated... If it ain't broke, don't fix it. BIOS updates rarely (if ever) add functionality that was lacked. BIOS updates add newer processor support (seen more in desktops than laptops) and fix issues that were created or exposed in previous BIOS revisions. Most importantly, most laptop manufacturers stop creating BIOS updates after a year or two of the release of that model laptop. Why? They've worked out the existing bugs in that model, they have moved on to newer designs, they don't intend to add newer processor support (to make you buy a newer laptop rather than upgrading your existing one), etc. Rather than spend time creating BIOS updates for models they no longer make or sell, they spend their time making BIOS updates for their current models. Sony USA doesn't recognize that model... but Sony Germany does They do not list ANY Bios updates available for that model... which means they might not offer any. So again... why do you want/need to update your BIOS? Presenting the problem that requires a BIOS update might get you better results... because if you want to update your BIOS because it seems really old... that's not a very good reason. EDIT Apparently VT was disabled by Sony on purpose, but later decided to be added back in through a BIOS update, for some of the VAIO series lines. The following laptop series had BIOS updates released: Sony decided to enable VT for the following model series lines: VGN-AW Series VGN-CS Series VGN-FW Series VGN-NS Series VGN-NW Series VGN-P Series VGN-SR Series VGN-TT Series VGN-Z Series. Unfortunately, yours is not included in a series that had a BIOS update that enabled VT. 

Download GParted. You've already freed up the space. You have one more step to add into this. You need to move the Storage partition all the way to the end of the drive, essentially moving the unallocated space to be between the storage partition and the Windows partition. This allows you to expand the Windows partition into the now available contiguous space. Just noticed your comment in the other answer about UEFI. Download and use EaseUS to move the partition over. 

USB bandwidth is shared among all the devices connected to each Hub. Thus, two drives connected to a single docking bay have to share that bandwidth to and from the computer. If you had the two drives connected to two separate USB ports (not on the same hub) you would see faster transfer speeds, since each drive would get the full bandwidth available to each USB port/hub. Note, most USB port pairs on a motherboard are on the same hub. Sometimes even 4 ports together are on the same hub. 

Once you step away from either of these, the game is over, and you "did not understand what he meant".