Such a tool does exist, it's called Timeshift. The linked article is about Ubuntu but it works for multiple distros. 

It is not possible to downgrade from a fresh Windows 10 install as you only have a license for Windows 10 and not Windows 8.1. The only time it is possible to downgrade is if you upgraded from a previous Windows installation. 

Which I placed in a folder called: and titled the script , but it doesn't seem to get called after standby. If I just type: 

When opening/saving a file using GEdit you see a open/save file dialog. The default location to open/save files in is . Is there anyway I can change it so that the default open/save is ? 

I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 on a Compaq Presario V5000 (piece of crap) and when I try to resume from standby, it's forgetting to turn my screen back on. I found a bash script somewhere a long time ago that actually fixed this problem, but I can't remember where. So I was wondering if you guys could point me in the right direction or maybe show me how to write a quick bash script to do this. Update: I have tried the following script: 

My Compaq Presario laptop hard drive has failed (luckily I was prepared). Now I want to refurbish this machine for another use. I'm going to need a new hard drive and was wondering where I could get the cheapest model. I don't need a big hard drive (just big enough to run Ubuntu). That means anything bigger than 15 GB's will do just fine. I need an IDE (PATA) hard drive. Where can I get the cheapest one that is bigger than 15 GBs? 

I'm using Windows 7 Running Chrome 38.0.2125.111 m, Google Hangouts plugin 2014.910.433.1. I'm experiencing the behaviour whereby if I disable notifications for a particular person, it makes me invisible to them. I'd prefer this to not happen. (At face value it seems like odd behaviour but on reflection it seems in line with the rest of the design decisions that have gone into the product). Is there a way to disable it from happening? edit: I'm trying to disable notifications by unticking the 'Notifications' checkbox in this option for that user: 

I have a Philips SHB8850NC bluetooth headset. When I'm playing audio through this device, if I click on the 'recording' tab, the audio mutes. As soon as I change the tab back again, the audio resumes. There is a slight static click when I switch the tab. I'm not sure what this means, but thought it was worth noting as it is audibly different from performing a software mute button on e.g. my keyboard (which mutes/unmutes without static click). I also noticed that occasionally while communicating over via headset plugged into the 3.5mm audio jack of my laptop, people would complained about my voice being extremely soft. When I clicked on the recording tab, it would fix the volume until I changed tabs. What is going on here? Is this intentional design (and if so what is the rationale)? Is there a way to prevent it? I am frequently fiddling with my microphone settings because of the above and it would be nice to be able to do so without muting my audio. 

I have the airline plugin installed for vim and no matter which theme I pick there is always an orange arrow in the bottom right corner of the screen. How can I fix this? 

I been trying to convert my HTML file to MediaWiki format by exporting it using OpenOffice. I keep getting this error message though: 

BABUN: You should take a look at Babun! I'm a Linux guy and this is the first program I install on my Windows machines. It's a very nice redux of cygwin and installing it is as simple as any other .msi installer. By default the shell is zsh, which I love, but you can easily change that to bash and bash comes preinstalled with Babun as well. 

It will turn my screen off, then back on. So I'm thinking that maybe my script isn't getting called. 

So I have a Dell Inspiron 1526 that has a broadcom bcm4312 wireless card. I installed Ubuntu and (big surprise) the wireless card isn't working. No problem for a hot shot like me who has fixed this same problem before on my old laptop. Just install bc43xx-fwcutter and install the firmware, well it didn't work. Needless to say I've been googleing for more than an hour and I'm tuff out of luck. So how can I get this to work? Oh, one minor note: I don't have anyway to connect to the internet on said computer because all I have is wireless that is being pick upped from across the street (no ethernet), but I do have another computer that can connect. 

Question How I could disable my contextmenu item from still appearing on the contextmenu of the desktop background?. Please note that its a simple contextmenu item manually added via registry, I don't pretend to rework the implementation via shell extension. 

I found the problem. The problem that caused the missing contextmenu is because the registry key was deleted. I manually deleted that key due to customization methodologies about Mozilla Firefox's protocols and DDE, in other versions of Windows I did the same without problem, but in Windows 10 if that key is deleted the taskbar's contextmenu dissapear. I tested it various times, including in a fresh install of Windows 10 TH2 to ensure the problem is really that, and yes it is, to reproduce the missing contextmenu just delete that key (the entire key including subkeys) and then reset the system, after reset the user will not be able to show the contextmenu when doing right-click on any taskbar icon. This is a backup from a clean Windows 10 TH2 install of all the registry keys involved in the Mozilla firefox "trick" if someone more needed to restore them: 

Most Gamers used Fraps tool to measure the FPS of a game. Fraps is a game-video-recording application, although it also has the ability to display an FPS counter over the current game. $URL$ $URL$ There is also a newer tool called BandiCam which has a very nice dark stylish and does the same. $URL$ $URL$ 

I recently bought a Lenovo IdeaPad Y580 and it has one minor annoyance: It continues to dim the screen when I unplug it from the power cord. I have tried setting the screen brightness in the advanced power settings but no matter what I set this to, the laptop always gets dimmer when unplugged. 

I would try installing the Synaptiks touchpad tool. This solved my issue when my touchpad wasn't recognized on my laptop. 

Create a folder in your home directory (ie. ) called and paste all fonts there. This should work since it's ubuntu based but I'm not 100% sure. 

It's most likely not a virus written by a scriptkiddie. Viruses are sort of hard to write for *nix (not to say it can't be done). Does it turn off or just log off? If it turns off you might check to see if your computer is overheating. Edit: Try disabling Desktop Effects (Compiz). Ubuntu doesn't want to play nicely with ATI graphics cards. I had a problem with resuming from standby only to find out that Ubuntu was forgetting to tell my screen to turn back on because of my graphic card. 

I just wanted to update this: Google has now added about 30 new themes to their page, under the artist tab. Some are really good, some aren't but at least we have more choices. 

This is getting very annoying. In the future we will not buy razor products but with the current line of devices, is there a way to prevent this from happening? I have asked on the Razor forums but they have gone as far as to delete my followup posts on this issue, so thought to ask here. 

My company publishes simulation software that regularly performs prolonged CPU (and GPU, and occasionally I/O) intensive tasks. Our userbase are engineers, of whom some are embedded in large companies, of which some still subscribe to fairly archaic mindsets regarding IT that better belong in the 90s. More than a few times now we have experienced situations where client computers which are extremely highly specced (some are commodity machines with 5 digit dollar values) are running simulations anywhere between 2-30 times slower than the same simulation on our internal machines. The client machines outspec our internal machines in basically every aspect (CPU, GPU, RAM, disk). In a few rare instances we have been able to identify the antivirus software as the culprit, but this has typically been more due to serendipitous circumstances than any solid detective work on our part. We do not have a lot of experience with antivirus but from what we've observed, a lot of active scanning antivirus software does not appear to take up CPU itself, or even show up as a task manager process, but (presumably) the CPU utilisation is assigned to our process instead, causing these massive performance slowdowns. On other occassions (sometimes when rapidly accessing anywhere between 1k-100k binary files) it will simply appear to frequently cause the CPU to throttle down to 0% usage, so the system effectively idles for prolonged durations (whereas on our internal machines the CPU maintains a steady 100% usage until the task is finished) On occasion when the antivirus is turned off we have seen the performance immediately come up to the level expected. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to ask the IT departments of these companies to do this based on a hunch (and understandably so). In some circumstances they are also disinterested in genuinely supporting their engineers more than the absolute minimum so this becomes an unpleasant interdepartmental fight. Is there a way we can reliably detect if the antivirus is causing performance issues so that we can better determine if it is worth having the argument? Depending on the client we may or may not have administrator privileges, so I would welcome solutions or suggestions for either. 

In the resulting User Accounts dialog, select your user account first and then uncheck the option labelled Users must enter a user name and password to use this computer. Click Apply button to see Automatically sign in box. 

However, I'm not sure how to do it neither if that is really what I need. I tried to add a "ghost" item on the DesktopBackground registry key trying to override the original item that I have on Directory\Background key, but the item still shown when I do right-click on the desktop background: 

Download and install AviSynth $URL$ Download an VHS effect for AviSynth. $URL$ Source: $URL$ Write your AviSynth script, just a plain text file with name 'Script.avs'. 

That GUID or CLSID does not exists on the registry of my host OS (Windows 8), seems that is only for Windows 8.1, and I did not find any info about that GUID 'cause Google just finds two matches from Technet in an unknown language for me: $URL$ These are the unique keys that exists on my registry referencing that CLSID: ( Maybe you could notice and advise me of important differences from an original Windows 8.1 fresh installation) 

I heard that the recent Windows 10 Anniversary Update will come with a optional dark theme I would like to know whether this "Dark Theme" is really a theme, a theme that will affect the light resources of the user interface as the white Explorer's background too, or is just the same "hidden" theming feature seen in previoues Windows 10 versions that just will change to dark the Universal Apps and other minor things. Note: I'm not asking for 3rd party themes, please focus only on the question I did. 

I believe this is intentional behaviour of the implementation of these headphones. The idea is that music audio is pushed through the 'speakers', and voice audio is pushed through the 'headset'. As soon as the 'headset' or 'mic' becomes active the device assumes that there is a voice call and makes a (questionably reasonable decision to) mute the music channel. I guess this workflow is most appropriate for car/handheld devices but I use this headset on my PC where I'd prefer to have better quality voice audio (my VOIP client will allow me to pump audio through the speakers, and it is noticeably better sounding than headset). But such is life. Curious if this is the norm for bluetooth headphones with multi source? This is my first pair. 

My work place has a bunch of Razer mice. Every now and again when I plug in my a razor mouse to my Windows 10 machine I get a malware screen from Razer prompting me to install Razer Synapse software. Despite having a prompt to 'Never Install', it continues to prompt me to install it occasionally. $URL$ The things that can bring up the prompt again include: 

Original post below I have a Thinkpad T520 with NVS4200m and Intel HD graphics, part of the new(ish) sandy-bridge optimus line. I am having some real pain getting it to output WQXGA (2560x1600) to 30" monitors. My experience have been thus: 

It is a shareware app, but sincerelly is the most complete choice and is not a high-price product, anyways If I remember good the trial mode has no expiration, only feature limitations. 

The pressence of that damn and uncustomizable? 1 px. border, there is where all the problems and worst nightmares begins with Windows 10. I always loved to use a program named Sizer in previous Windows versions, which is an application that lets you positionate any window to customizable preestablished positions for any visible window in just one click, however this kind of time-saver window organization applications can't work as expected in Windows 10 because the damn invisible border, because the size of the invisible borders will be sum when calculating the position for the window, and this is translated into an annonying empty space on the desktop between the positioned windows and the desktop margins... For those who are familiar with Sizer, this is an image to let you understand what I mean, the blank space between positions (which are the size of the damn invisible border of Windows 10): 

When I access to my mail on the Outlook page, automatically it starts my session in Skype so in the Outlook page I can receive all the messages that the people send me via Skype, the problem is that I don't want that people can talk me from Skype if I'm just looking my new mails in the Outlook page... I have som clients in the Skype and when I have the Outlook page opened I can't notice most of the messages that they send me from Skype 'cause I'm not inside skype I just have the Outlook page opened to read or write mails... I don't want that Outlook starts session in Skype and receive private messages from they in silly notify popups in the Outlook page... 

Since Windows XP or before, you are able to force delete a file by holding down shift while pressing delete. For some time now I've noticed if you select a LARGE number of files (e.g. 20k) or so, shift-delete does not force delete - instead it presents the option to send to recycle bin in the same way as if you had just pressed delete. In trying to consistently reproduce this error I have found that it is not based on a pure threshold. Sometimes I am able to properly shift delete 10k files, sometimes it prompts me to recycle 5k. It makes me suspect that something asynchronous is going on in the background but I can't really speculate as to what. The short and sweet of it is, is there a way I can consistently shift-delete a large number of files? Running W7 64-bit for what it's worth. I think i experienced this in XP as well but can't say for certain. 

I plug in an external monitor. I notice my colours are all washed out/high gamma Open the NVIDIA Control Panel In the "Choose how color is set", I change the radio button to 'Use NVIDIA settings'. Then I change it back to 'Other applications control color settings". Note that at no time do I actually CHANGE any settings. At this point the gamma is fixed. I can additionally hit 'restore defaults' or 'apply' to no effect (in the future).