When you choose to Open a file rather than Save it, firefox saves the file in your temp directory. On Windows, you can press +R and then type to open your temp directory. 

It looks like Adobe Reader XI (Adobe Help) has a custom scale option. You may need to upgrade to a new version of the reader. Edit: Yep, here it is: 

Open the Bookmarks Library Window by selecting Bookmarks, Show All Bookmarks. Drag-and-drop the Tags item to the Bookmarks Toolbar Item. Or, drag individual tags to the bookmarks toolbar. 

Remove . Even in configurations where declaring a data type is allowed, it's optional. Inside your class, you can use a function to validate that the parameter is a string. Enable the future parser. This is done in your puppet config file, and you may find that your other code is not compatible. Upgrade to a 4.x version of puppet. This may also result in incompatibilities with the rest of your environment. 

Select , . Select . Select the or the depending on what you are looking for the rule to do. Select . Select the action. Pick the folder you want to file these messages in. Select . Select the exception. Specify the noreply address. Select . 

I think you might be thinking too narrowly when you ask for a media player solution. Why not something system wide? I haven't had a chance to try anything yet, but osd_cat (Included in libXosd) or libnotify might work. 

You can only install Windows Vista using a Windows Vista disc. However, you can install a different version of Windows on your laptop if you have a spare copy laying around. Or install Linux, if you are in to that. 

If it is a standard dialog box, you can press Ctrl+C to copy the title, contents, and the available buttons (OK, Cancel). 

I'd use VLOOKUP. You'll need to keep a copy of the source table on Sheet 1. Sheet 2 will contain your new table. Column A will contain 1-Infinity. Cell B2 will contain Cell C2 will contain And so on. You can use the fill down tool to copy the columns B-G. 

on the Desktop is querying 8.8.8.8 which is a public DNS server, which would know the public address of the domain. on the Laptop is querying 192.168.0.1, which is a local DNS server and is configured differently. I can't tell which server is querying since you used the +short option. You need to find out first what server on your Desktop is using, then you can go on to fix the record there. 

It's possible that there is nothing wrong with her PC. When a spam message goes out, they can set the From address to anything they want and the bouncebacks will be sent to your user. This is sometimes known as Backscatter Spam. That said, she should change her passwords on both the Exchange account and the Gmail account. 

Select the text to be copied In the menu, select [Plugins, NppExport, Copy all formats to clipboard] Paste the text into Word 

Your question is a bit confusing. Maybe an example of your starting data would help. However, this looks like a case where I'd use . Here is the Microsoft Documentation on VLOOKUP. Lets say Sheet 1 contains your primary table, and Sheet 2 contains your secondary table. An example formula for cell B3 on Sheet 1 using VLOOKUP: The ID from Sheet 2 will show up in Column B. By setting the fourth parameter to false, I've told VLOOKUP that the data is not sorted. By default, or when the parameter is explicitly true, VLOOKUP assumes the data is sorted, and finds an approximate value. Setting it to false forces VLOOKUP to find an exact match. However, if VLOOKUP can't find a match, it will show N/A. You want an empty cell, so you can wrap it in . The example is changed to: 

Between the 150 opening and the 503 failure code are several minutes. I have tried to use a website to check if the port is open, but I get this error: 

So this means the port is closed? How can it be, since the both firewall were shutdown (windows firewall has filezilla in list of allowed programs anyway and the router has never made problems before, and I did not update there anything) I tried to search on internet, if I can check these things with telnet, I have putty installed, but its long time since I had to do with this network-stuff.. Strange how quick these things get forgotten. But anyway, how can I furthermore find out, what causes this problem? Is it really that the too many client connections are because of a firewall, which blocks the answers, so filezilla tries to connect new? or something like this? Any help really appreciated! 

I have my own domain for my business. In my host I have configured that the emails are forwarded to my outlook account. In my outlook account I have configured the emails from my own domain as account alias to send and receive emails. I am using so email with my own domain in outlook.com. So far it was worked fine, but recently I have experienced in many occasions that nobody is replying to my answer on their requests. I had also a customer from uk who was sending me emails but it I did not receive it, nor it was in my spam folder. And I know one occassion, where the customer said he never did receive my response to their request. I sent it again with my outlook.com email, and then it did go to the customer. :( I am wondering, since the server IP, which is sending my email (outlook.com) is different from my emails name (my domain) could it be that my email is beeing filtered as spam? I already checked, if my domain is blacklisted, but it was not the case. I am now worrying, that lot of my emails are not going through to the customers. Would it be better to install a client like outlook or thunderbird on my pc and configure the account directly to my domains account? Or does this not make a difference? Pls note, none of my customers has told me, that my email was in spam-folder, but I am worrying that they just vanish in the wide internet. Since my business in dependend on that email communication, I am really worried. I searched already in the internet about a good explanation on that matter, but I found none. I would be really pleased if someone could help me to get clarification on that matter 

Since this morning I am unable to make a update with many files (i try to update the piwikinstallation, requires me to upload about 24mb). After a while, filezilla gets the answer from server, that too many clients are connected. I did not change anything which could be related to this, in the past few days, nor windows, firewall or filezilla setting. There was an windows update 2 days ago, but I already recovered it, it did not cause the problem. The strange thing is, I set in filezilla settings, that there is only one maximum simultaneous connection allowed. I have started laptop and filezilla new several times. This problem is not limited to the one server, on the other server I tried, I get the same error after a while. I tried also the other client, Fileduck or what it was, the one with the yellow duck, but I think its not working also, I do not receive any errors, (it does not say anything like in filezilla) but it somehow never stop uploading. I have Windows 7 with only the windows firewall, I also use Avast but without firewall. I have already tested to shut off the windows firewall and the firewall of our adsl router, but it did not help. I also restarted the router. When I do the filezilla wizard test, I can get almost through if I set to obtain ip-adress from filezillasite. Here is the log 

It sounds like you are using a version of puppet older than 4.0, and not using the 'future' parser. Data types were added with the new version of the puppet language. You have 3 options: 

Alternatively, place your existing rule for the noreply address ahead of the other in the rules list, and add the action. 

Microsoft offered a program called Windows SteadyState. SteadyState was discontinued, but they did publish a TechNet Article on how to implement some of the same features. There are also commercial applications, such as Deep Freeze. You could also run Windows in a virtual machine, and use snapshots to roll back to a known good state. 

Have you considered using LaTeX? The other answers suggest using Pandoc, which looks like it can convert Markdown to LaTeX, but it might be easier to start right in LaTeX. LaTeX is designed for the creation of print documents, and has things like page numbers and TOC generation built-in. Check out this basic tutorial: $URL$ 

Try using "Paste Special" Notepad++ has an option, [Edit, Paste Special, Paste HTML Content]. Copying from various browsers gives different results. I've copied the same section from your question in each browser, and pasted it into Notepad++. From Firefox: 

I know you aren't familiar with LaTeX, but the files are essentially plain text. If the author sent you a copy of the LaTeX source, you could open them in Notepad or a similar program, and copy the text from there. 

I'm guessing that the Windows XP setup program doesn't recognize the HD controller. Is the bios set to use AHCI mode? (Disable AHCI) Is it a RAID type controller? If that is the case, you will need to supply a driver. You can use a floppy disk, and press F6 at the prompt, or create a setup cd with the driver included. (Commonly refered to as Slipstreaming) Or, you can install a modern operating system. Windows 7, Windows 8, or a current Linux distribution are more likely to support your hardware by default. 

Short answer: No. A laser printer will have a mixture of toner and developer in its developer housing. The physical interaction between the particles of toner and developer are what gives the toner an electrical charge. The polarity of this charge will depend on the development system being used in your specific printer. The printer will either have a Toner Concentration (TC) sensor, or use an algorithm to determine how much toner is in the housing, and how much to dispense. In many home and small office printers, when you replace the toner you also replace the developer as well, starting you with a known TC. If you are actually adding toner, only, then the printer will dispense toner to reach the working TC. I suppose it might take longer to tone up if you really ran it down. In no case would you run into a permanent damage situation. 

Running again is creating a new machine from the box (template). Deleting the box would cause to fail. 

You could use a password protected ZIP file and send that over Dropbox. I don't know if that is secure enough for your needs, but is simple. I think your proposed sneakernet option might be the easiest. Send a DVD in the mail. 

I would consider creating a virtual machine out of your old PC. This will avoid the need to reconfigure all of your old software on the new PC, as the virtual machine is essentially a copy of the old PC. Virtual machines aren't exactly a beginner's topic, but it is relatively easy to do a Physical to Virtual conversion using VMWare Converter. The virtual machine would then run on top of the new PC or any other PC, and with a working backup you won't need to be concerned with hardware failures of the PC your software is running on.