This is a case for QoS. Traffic like VoIP should have priority queues, and bulk traffic like you describe should be marked down to give other traffic priority. QoS is all about fairness (as you define it). You can set the various queues to allow the bulk traffic to use all the bandwidth when noting else is using it, but, when higher priority traffic comes in, the higher priority traffic will take the bandwidth it needs. Both Cisco and Juniper have robust QoS capabilities. QoS is a very large topic that can't be properly discussed here, so you need to do some research. By the way, you can't control incoming traffic, so someone sending from the outside can saturate the incoming link. This is called a Denial of Service (DoS) attack. Also, questions from end-users of corporate networks are specifically off-topic because you need to deal with your network administration to make anything happen. 

The correct way to do what you want is to put the SVIs on the layer-3 switch that is doing the routing, and place the command on the SVIs for the VLANs which do not have the DHCP server. You also have a problem where you have all three VLANs using the same layer-3 network (). Each VLAN should be have a different network, e.g. VLAN 10 , VLAN 11 , and VLAN 12 . I will assume the above IP/VLAN addressing, and that your DHCP server is on VLAN 10 at . I will also assume that you want to manage the switches on VLAN 10, and that Switch 1 connects to Switch 2 and Switch 1 connects to Switch 3 . Switch 1 is configured with all its FastEthernet interfaces in VLAN 10, Switch 2 is configured with all its FastEthernet interfaces in VLAN 11, and Switch 3 is configured with all its FastEthernet interfaces in VLAN 12. (Because you are trunking, you can put any VLAN on any of the switch FastEthernet interfaces, but I am simplifying it to start because I don't actually have a diagram.) Globally enabling portfast and bpduguard will enable them on all access interface, but not the trunk interfaces (normally what you want). You should also define the VLANs at layer-2, not just on the SVI and switch interfaces. You need to configure the DHCP scopes so that each VLAN has a gateway pointing to the Switch 1 SVI address for that VLAN. VLAN 10 , VLAN 11 , and VLAN 12 . Switch 1 configuration changes: 

You are asking about QoS, which is a huge topic that covers everything from classifying/marking traffic to what to do with the traffic based on the markings. This is really too broad to answer here, and entire books have been written on the subject. We can try to answer specific questions, but we cannot just explain QoS in this type of site. 

You need to have a DHCP server on your LAN. An unmanaged layer-2 switch doesn't participate in anything above layer-2. 

If you look closely, you have 1557204 CRC errors, and 132 runts, for a total of 1557336 input errors. You may have a layer-1 problem. The runts are frames which are too small, and the CRC errors mean that the frames didn't match what the FCS says they should be. This is a sign of corrupt frames coming into the interface. This can be caused by several things, but it is likely a layer-1 problem. You should always start troubleshooting at layer-1. 

Some layer-2 protocols use MAC addresses, and some don't. For example, PPP uses something different. Your router will encapsulate in the layer-2 protocol which is used on the link to the ISP, and that link may or may not use MAC addresses. Unless you work for the ISP you can't know what a particular ISP does internally because there are many different ways that ISPs do things. Resource recommendations are off-topic, so we can't help with reading resources. 

I'm not sure why some people use the generic term to mean "IP address." Why would it mean "IP address" any more than it means "IP RFC," "IP version," "IP header," "IP TTL," etc.? 

Layer-1 is the bits on the wire and the hardware to encode/decode them. Layer-2 is where frames and MAC addresses are. Layer-3 is where packets and IP addresses are. Layer-4 is where segments and ports (layer-4 addresses) are. Higher layers are off-topic here. 

All traceroute does is send with increasing TTL. Your sixth hop could have ICMP messages for that hop disabled, or it could be too busy to reply in time (ICMP is a low priority for a router; the router wants to route first, and it will get around to ICMP when it has time). That doesn't mean it will not pass on ICMP from a different source, since the ICMP traffic from a different source is simply more data to your sixth hop. 

The MAC address table of a switch is organized by MAC address, not by port. The switch looks at the table to find the MAC address so that it can see which port should be used for traffic destined to that MAC address. The switch has no idea if other MAC addresses came in on that port, too; that's not the point. The only thing a switch needs to know is to which port it should send traffic destined for that MAC address. It doesn't matter if the device on the other end is another switch, a hub, and end-device, or something else. The switch doesn't care what sort of device is connected to the port. Some devices can use CDP or LLDP to communicate more information about themselves to the devices to which they are connected. This would need to be supported and enabled on the devices on both ends of a link. For instance, Cisco devices can use CDP, and if it is enabled on your Cisco devices on both ends of a link, you can see what is connected to the other end of the link with the command. 

Doubleclick is an ad service for websites. What you are seeing is someone who went to a web site that had doubleclick ads. Web browsers will open multiple connections when viewing a web site in order to download multiple parts of a web page simultaneously. 

First, classful routing is dead, and it has been for over 20 years, killed by VLSM and CIDR (see RFCs 1518 and 1519). For IPv4 you cannot use the network or broadcast addresses as host address assignments. In your example, is the network address, and is the broadcast address. Those addresses have special meaning to IPv4, and assigning them to hosts causes problems. There are a couple of exceptions to this: 

The source and destination hosts will probably have some layer-3 address. If the path is across the Internet, the addresses will be IPv4 or IPv6 addresses. (IP stands for Internet Protocol.) Layer-3 addresses can be assigned to a host by manually configuring it on the host, or by some automated process (DHCP for IPv4, DHCPv6, SLAAC, or Random Addressing for IPv6, etc.). How the layer-3 addresses are chosen depend on what method of assigning layer-3 addresses is used. A switch is a layer-2 device, and it doesn't know or care what layer-3 protocols or addressing are used. A switch only looks at the layer-2 frame; it doesn't strip off the layer-2 frame to inspect the layer-3 packets the way a router does. 

In theory, the number of host addresses on a standard IPv6 network is (). In practice, a LAN will break with even a small fraction of that many hosts, but that has to do with the LAN topology and protocol, not IPv6. Some LAN protocols use 48-bit MAC addresses, so the theoretical maximum number of hosts on the LAN is () hosts, but many of those MAC addresses cannot be used. Some LAN protocols use 64-bit MAC addresses, allowing for a theoretical maximum that matches the IPv6 theoretical maximum, but again, many of the 64-bit MAC addresses cannot be used. Some LAN protocols use other addressing, or no addressing at all. Actually, if you look at how solicited node multicast addresses are created, they use the last bits of the target unicast address, so there are possible solicited node addresses. I'm not sure where you came up with , nor why you want to subtract one from that number. The idea of the solicited node address is not that it is unique, in fact the idea is that it is not unique because it is desirable that all addresses on a host interface resolve to the same solicited node multicast address, but you want to cut down the number of hosts that are interrupted. A broadcast will interrupt every host on a LAN, but the solicited node multicast address will interrupt far fewer hosts, possibly only the single target host. 

In conclusion, there is no official name for the general IPv6 format, and you may call it whatever you wish. I think it is important to distinguish between the various IPv6 address formats. My company has a requirement to use the RFC 5952 canonical format rather than the conventional format. Note: I left the rest of my answer in as useful information. 

Basically, without private IP addressing, we would have run out of IPv4 addresses many years ago. There simply are not enough IPv4 addresses to for everyone to have a unique IPv4 address, which was the original premise of IP. To restore this premise and the end-to-end nature of IP, the IETF created IPv6. 

You will need to run BGP with your ISP. BGP will advertise your prefix(es) to the ISP, and vice versa. If you only have one ISP, the you could negotiate for the ISP to only send a default route, or ignore what your ISP sends you in favor of a default route. You will need to get your own AS number unless your ISP will let you use a private AS number. 

That is incorrect. The source and destination MAC addresses in a frame do not change on a LAN. The source and destination MAC addresses in a frame are the real source and destination MAC addresses of the source and destination hosts on a LAN. A switch will read the source address of frames coming into a port, and it will use that information in order to build its MAC address table for which MAC address can be found on which port. It will then deliver the frame to the port for the destination MAC address it finds in its MAC address table. If it can't find the destination MAC address in its MAC address table, it will flood the frame to all other ports. You may be thinking about the frame being stripped from a packet when it crosses a router, and the router needs to create a new frame with new source and destination MAC addresses for the next hop, but switches on a LAN are transparent devices. The only changes made to a frame may be the addition of a VLAN tag when a frame crosses a trunk, or the removal of a VLAN tag when a frame exits an access port. 

It clearly shows that STP is blocking one of the links for that VLAN. If you pull the plug on the forwarding link, STP will converge and begin forwarding on the blocked link. This is what you want, and it is the default behavior. 

R3 has a virtual link to R1 in Area 0 The cost that R3 sees across the virtual link to in Area 0 is . Cisco has a document that explains OSPF virtual links: OSPF Virtual Link 

No. Each network is almost always a network. Each host still gets one or more addresses on the network, but I don't know of any OS that will handle more than a few dozen addresses for an interface on a LAN.