So, no, Windows 10 (and presumably Windows 8.1, 8.0, 7, etc) does not support AES-256 encryption in zip files - however the "ZipCrypto" mode in 7-Zip does seem to be supported. 

So Photoshop CC 2015 does still in-fact have the Transparency Grid - it's just disabled in "Artboard Mode" - a mode which can be enabled too easily and without realising it. If you create a new Photoshop document in CC 2015 by File > New > Default Photoshop Size then you'll get a "normal" document, however if you choose anything else in the New Document dialog you'll likely get an "Artboard document". You can get-out of an artboard document mode by opening the Layer menu and choosing Ungroup Artboards - if you're not in Artboard mode you won't see that option because it's renamed to Ungroup Layers. 

Observe how, for the top 3 processors, as the core-count increases, the CPU frequency decreases. While the L3 Cache increases - as it's shared between all cores it works out at 2.5MB/core. Most of my computing needs are not many-core optimized, such as games - I don't do things like video-encoding, rendering, or bitcoin-mining - which means whatever is in cache would be suited to however many cores are being utilized, so the larger L3 cache would definitely help (and so be effectively larger than 2.5MB/core). So my question is: if I got the i7-6850K, would the extra 600Mhz (300Mhz in turbo-boost) in single-threaded performance offset the smaller L3 cache compared to the i7-6950X? But contrarywise: would the 500Mhz turbo-boost in the 6950X be in-effect if I was running low-threaded programs and augment the larger L3 cache? To be sure for certain, I'd have to wait for the Broadwell-E benchmarks to come out - though ideally I'd like to get my pre-order in first. 

UPDATE @MPuckey helped me reach a better wording for my problem: I'm not looking for a fool-proof backup system. I'm looking for, essentially, an external hard drive, that is also resistant to a single-drive failure, and convenient to use. 

For example, in Visual Studio Express 2013, many of the formatting shortcuts have been "folded" into Ctrl+E. To comment a selection, one would hold down Ctrl, hit E, hit C, then release Ctrl.      If I were sending such input, I'd write 

as well as a binary file (presumably a memory dump). I can't figure out what's wrong. This problem prevents me, for example, from installing certain Cygwin packages that run a script as part of the installation, as I get the same crash. Can anyone suggest steps I might take toward diagnosing and fixing this issue? * I don't know if it's related, but the problem started when I was learning Ruby on Rails following steps in Hartl's Ruby on Rails Tutorial. Specifically, I didn't have a problem with installing and using IronRuby, but the problems began when I attempted to install ANSICON 1.60 to get colored output on my command-line. I recall setting some environment variables, not being able to get it to work, undoing those environment variable changes, and having this issue ever since. I've downloaded the latest ANSICON 1.66 and run and to uninstall and reinstall the software, in case it might help, but no luck. 

I clicked on "Disk 3 (GPT)" (not the partitions) to reveal a "Disk" menu up top, from which I selected "Convert GTP to MBR". 

What you want is Dorgem, it should work on Windows 7 too, works nicely on 64bit Vista and many other Windows versions I've tried it on. Dorgem can be downloaded here $URL$ 

I think it is probably due to cost and low demand. Manufacturing a high DPI LCD panel costs more and majority of people like to have 1920x1200 resolution on 24" monitor, so most LCD panels are manufactured to that size (and new trend seems to be 1920x1080) and that means cheaper prices. On laptops you really cannot make the screen bigger, not many people would be happy to haul around 24" monster laptop (I think Dell has one). So manufacturers are forced to put high DPI screens on laptops, but usually can also ask for higher price for these devices. Which is a shame as I really would like to have 24" monitor that does 4096x2560 and costs under 1000eur. 

I don't think the signal strenght will be an issue, but using a DVI-splitter cable might give you better looking image, but they are known to have some issues (cheap ones atleast). I don't think there should be any problems as long as you don't try to run 1920x1200 resolution (your 1024x768 will work nicely) through that setup and use reasonably high quality cables. Actually, at 1024x768 you probably wont see any quality improvement even if the signal was kept DVI all the way. 

If you want your digital canvas work more like reallife(tm) ones, I would suggest out trying Corel Paint 11. I used it and if I had any more skill, it would be my #1 choice for tablet painting. 

I found another document titled BitTorrent Protocol version 1.0 (Fonseca, J., Reza, B., and Fjeldsted, L. April 2005.) that describes this aspect of the protocol (though based on an older version of the protocol) in greater detail. 

I'm not sure what the proper terminology is for such remote desktop sessions. To remote into my work computer from home, I have to log in to a portal ("Juniper terminal services") using an RSA SecurID token, and click a link that launches the remote desktop session. Is there a way to configure the settings for such sessions? For example, multiple-monitor support, or more urgently, font-smoothing (a.k.a. ClearType fonts). (Please do comment on alternative solutions to enabling font-smoothing!) The portal provides a page where I can configure only a limited selection of settings: 

If you right-click a conversation in the conversations view, you can go to Move > Always Move Messages in This Conversation. 

without a Windows installation disk, without any CD-burning capabilities, and without a USB key drive? 

I'm accepting @ScottChamberlain's answer as searching the term "fairness" led me to another set of terms, "choking" and "unchoking," which in turn led me to a definitive answer in the BitTorrent Protocol Specification (Cohen, Bram. October 20, 2012.) 

Once or twice a week, I run into a bug in Chrome where not only all my Chrome tabs, but even all my Chrome windows, appear frozen, due to an invisible Javascript confirmation dialog. I don't know what causes this state, so I don't know how to reproduce it—but when it does happen, I can reproduce it over and over, e.g. with a simple in JSFiddle, until I kill all instances of chrome.exe. My current instance of Chrome is now in that state. (I learned to "escape" by hitting TabEnter to select Cancel on the invisible confirmation dialog, but this only works if the offending dialog occurs on the window and tab that happened to be active.) What can I do to gather information about the state of Chrome to report this bug? Nothing appears on the Developers' console. This has been happening for about a year now, and since then I've reinstalled Chrome on 3 of my machines (2 of them on clean Windows 7 installations), yet I run into this issue on all machines. I think I happen to notice them more than most because I play an online game that makes use of confirmation dialogs between turn actions, but the issue isn't specific to that site—I've experienced it on other sites, and as I said, I can reproduce it on JSFiddle once it happens once.