I'm hoping someone smarter than me can come up with a less laborious solution, but for now this works for my purposes. 

I've created a macro that adds a page at the end of a document and changes the title text in the Header. I want to be able to add multiple pages and have the letter in the title auto-increment: SCHEDULE 'A' SCHEDULE 'B' SCHEDULE 'C' etc. I tried using an AUTONUM field, but I get a notification that says, "Main Document Only." 

You can't adjust character spacing in Excel, and I've already tried a number of different fonts, but it still looks awful. What's causing this and how do I fix it? 

I want to create multiple time fields that will display the current time when you click on it, but won't update when I update the auto increment fields I'm using in the same document. I need something like the date picker content control. I had hope when I saw you could display the date as but it's kind of pointless, because it only ever displays as. Is there a way I can get the date picker to show the current time when you click on "today" or is there something else I can do? 

It does this regardless of how many documents I merge at once, but doesn't do it when I save the documents as PDF individually. Removing the content control resolves the issue, but I have hundreds of documents using the same template, and I'm not about to go through and edit them one by one. Acrobat should be able to merge my documents without altering them in the process. What's going on here and how do I prevent Acrobat from inserting these characters? I'm on Windows 10, using the latest update of Adobe Acrobat Pro DC (Installed using Creative Cloud) and Windows Office 2010. 

I'm linking data from excel into a word object, but when the data appears in word the character spacing is changed and all the letters blend together: Data as it appears in Excel: (Font = Calibri) 

I've tried but using doesn't work in content controls like it works in date fields. Can you use ordinal indicators in the date picker content control? 

You can then simply create a control and set the control source to and the function will accurately calculate ages. 

I've tried googling this but all the search results are on how to detect a device period, not how to detect which input device is being used. I have a barcode scanner we're using to check-in patrons to our swimming pool, and I want to design a database that will detect when the scanner is being used and automatically open a form before entering the input. For example: if the database is open, but not in the appropriate form, or not highlighting the appropriate field, as soon as the database detects that an incoming input is coming from the barcode scanner, it will open the form and enter the input into the approriate field. I understand that barcode sensors are in essence keyboards, but is there a way I can detect which keyboard an input id coming from and if it's a specific one, then run a sub before it writes the input? 

Have you tried setting your local IP(ie, 192.168.1.4):5900 or localhost:5900 ? (Also dig on the TightVNC preferences, if you did not already.) 

Depending on the nature of your notes and workflow... I'd go for BitNami Tracks if organizer/planner's features might become handy , or just Dokuwiki for a sort of wiki aproach... In both cases the Bitnami installers take care of the complex steps, and have it all integrated, it's easier to have it up and running (in just some mins, through an installer-wizzard). You can install it in your Mac, Windows, or Linux. (or even in a VM, in the cloud, etc) 

Just doing a fast search did not appear in that recommended linked answer, so I'll mention here. Consider that most of this cores have what is called a turbo mode: Not technically well explained but basically that mode can be triggered, when using one or less cores than the 4 ones,(running a single core app or other situation) so that it can run at higher clock rates. IE, the i7 870's each core rate might be 2.93MHZ, but in turbo mode, a single core app can run at 3.6 GHz. Not all the available cpus support this, but i7 cpus ones can, for example (some i5 do not have turbo, none of the i3 have it.). 

You did set to factory defaults... maybe..I'd check if the defaults in that one are, in some advanced BIOS settings, the power related ones, that the button is set to reboot, not to power off. I have seen that setting(to suspend, to hibernate, power off, etc) a lot in many BIOS. Not with the default of rebooting (that's weird) but one never knows, and at least you can try other combination it offers in that setting, may work. As last resource, flash the bios, update it. (not recommended if have no experience about it) 

Alternatively, you can just use Bitnami Drupal Stack, which installs mysql and all dependencies with a simple graphical wizzard. Or you could install LAMPStack, which serves as a common infrastructure, then download the Drupal Stack module and install it (and any other apps you find there as modules, sharing the same LAMPStack as a base. ) 

looks like... you have changed the color depth in all Windows. Just go to Control Panel and in screen properties, advanced tab, change it back to 32bits.(full color, 24bits, however it says it) 

If they have protected the swf, that'd be quite involved. (I guess would be easiest just to contact them in english so they pass you super high resolution versions) There are free extraction tools like $URL$ If Sothink could not extract it, chances are low for other tools, but you never know, I would try. 

Have you tried GTK-Recordmydesktop? Is a front end for it. With it (probably also with command line version) you can select an area of the screen to capture, very easily. (tutorial here) (you can do the same by commandline, specifying offset and width/height parameters. A bit more tedious, though) On the file size issue. You can lower the quality slider in the GTK gui. (there's a command line parameter for this), mark "encode on the fly", and unmark zero compression. And do a small test to find the lower quality you can use. FPS, frames per second captured, also vary the file size, but it can end up in a "jumpy" motion... Another option is just record it all, then use these tools for splitting the file. Obviously I guess just pausing the file and then restarting is not an option... BTW, the software actually saves temp files, I think in chunks of 500mb, calling them img.out or something like that. With a recent "repair" function you can recover crashed session chunks. Might be this be a way to somehow re-create the chunks...An starting point, at least. 

How can I get my page titles to auto-increment in the Headers? Also, I was under the assumption that I needed to unlink my headers from previous in my macro. I couldn't get that part to work, but with the exception of the fields not working right, everything else seems to work just fine. The header displays the new title even though it says it's still linked. Should I just leave it? Or how would I go about unlinking me headers? I tried using: 

There's a function you can add to your code that does this easily for you. Go to Visual Basic, insert a new module and then paste in the following code: 

How do you insert ordinal indicators into date picker content controls that will show the date like: 

One solution I've come up with–though not the ideal solution, more like a cheap work-around–is to manually input the first list number of your nested list and format it to look like your list numbers, then use SHIFT+ENTER to put a hard break in your first line, and use tabs to adjust the other lines in that list item. 

I'm creating a new template for an 8.5x11 document, but I want the cover page to be printed on 11x17, so I can fold the cover page over document like a book cover, with the cover page printed on the front. Is this doable? If so, how do I go about this? 

I have a list of municipalities and population data I need to put into three columns, and the best way I can figure to do it is delimit the data by the last two delimiters only. For example, many of the municipalities have names longer than one word, so I can't simply use the space as a global delimiter. 

But if I could figure out how to do it by the last two spaces only, then I could get the municipalities in one column, and the populations in a another. 

I've been trying a combination of LEFT, MID, RIGHT, SEARCH, and LEN text functions to try and get what I want, looking at examples from here for help, but I can't get anything to work the way I want to. I'm hoping there's some kind of function that can accomplish the task. Something as simple as: 

How do you calculate the current age of an individual based off of their birthdate in MS Access? I've tried But that only returns how old they will be that calendar year, so if they haven't had their birthday yet then it's inacurate. How can you calculate their age based of what calendar day it is? 

Is there a way I can style my lists to look this way without putting them in tables and manually inputing the parent list numbers? 

The solution was easier than I thought it would be. When you create a section break then you can change the paper size and layout for each section. All I had to do was create a break that started the section on the new page, then change the first page's layout to 11x17 landscape, and made two columns with the margins adjusted so I could have a cover page and a back. 

Right click on empty space in any folder, you see the "sort by", instead of clicking in "Date", click on "More..." . Then, is ordered by alphabet order all the options available. scroll to modification date or date modified. (can't remember) . Check that. Then rmb again and select "date modified" for sorting icons. Then go to top menu, Tools, Options, View, hit "Apply to all folders" button. I usually make this in top My Computer or Unit C folder, so I think it applies to all hardrive. The new option should always appear now in right click menu... Edit: When ordered by date modified, might be happening to you, if disk is very full and fragmented and there are way too many files in that folder, it takes a second to actually auto update the folder and put the newest file at the very beguining. In my win 7 machine is like one second in the very worst case. 

If it's some streaming site, and you're just watching videos, a dirty trick is open twice, and mute one, just start a bit later or sooner one of both, as needed.(but vlc feature mentioned above is preferrable) Another "fast" trick, in case you are encoding not just watching, is in a video editor that allows handling audio track separately (ie: Sony Vegas Studio), just move this audio track as needed, with a bit of trial and error. There are better ways, but these are sort of basic/simple. 

Yes, Putty. I also find useful WinSCP. Not command line but allows you to do a lot of stuff apart from just copying files. Its embeded text editor is quite functional and does not introduce any weird character, etc. In windows, if you are doing a lot of Ruby development, by all means I would recommend you using RubyStack. 

You nay need to install both divx and xvid codecs. For editing avis without quality loss, you may use camstudio free codec to encode while editing stage, them, till the final export in an more adecuate format (flv, mp4 with .h264, etc) $URL$ (Oh, and sooner or later I end up needing to install FFDShow in the system, too, for several codecs matters...) 

Maybe try not using -sameq Also, might want to try to add -vcodec libx264, to produce files compressed with .h264 codec. Which has one of the best quality/size ratios. (although normally used with mp4 container instead of flv) The audio hz (-ar) are very low, aren't you noticing too low audio quality? At least 22, if not 44100... Also, -b 270k is a bit of a quite low value. I'd set 500, at least. 

You could try Coppermine free web gallery. At BitNami you can find mac, linux and windows installers for it. (so, adressing well those compatibility issues) I think it would support all which you mention. 

In games, many years ago we used *.PAL file editors to change one color per another. This is mostly for if your images are color indexed. (IE: Gifs are always color indexed) It was used (also did again while doing mobile games) to change cloth colors so to make different enemies using only the memory in disk of a single one. There are many tools, but as an example: $URL$ Also, you say you use irfanview, there's a plugin: $URL$