For reference (in case the link disappears), the original said to use the following to clean up, but depending on filesystem type: 

What does this even mean? How should we deal with it? In this case, qfdevelopment_metapkg is an apt package that contains only dependencies in order to install the necessary packages prior to performing development for the qf project. I had installed the package (originally) using: 

I found this because I was looking for an improvement over my startup subst scripts - they worked OK, but sometimes executed after folders crashed on startup because my drive wasn't yet mapped. First, I edited the registry, but was unable to get it to work. However, I did come across this alternative, which although it doesn't use subst does answer for me the question, "How to make SUBST mapping persistent across reboots?" Don't use subst... (insert appropriate 'computerName' and 'pathName'): 

I am about to implement a working copy of /etc/init/subgit.conf (not to be confused with SVN_REPOS/conf/subgit.conf in SubGit) and will post pending better answers. Note: SubGit is a particular implementation of bridging Subversion and Git. 

When I type in into the address bar It used to autocomplete/autofill to but now it autocompletes to the slack page. This is actually very frustrating since I hit that domain a zillion times a day and very rarely intend to hit the slack domain. Is there anyway to have FF default autocomplete to the plain domain without having to purge the slack domain from my history? 

In FF, I can move a tab to a new window by either dragging the tab out of the browser, or right clicking the "move to New window" option from the context menu. is there a shortcut key to move the current tab to a new window without dragging or using the context menu, or a way to set one up? Often, I like to look at 2 tabs side by side, so I drag one out, then hit WINDOWS KEY+→ to put the detached tab on the right, then ALT+TAB to tab back to the main window, then WINDOWS KEY+← to put the main window on the left. It would be great if I could do the whole process on the keyboard. I checked this documentation and did not find any shortcut key for detaching a tab: 

I was reading the manpages for bash on the plane and I stumbled across the HISTIGNORE variable. To test it out, I immediately edited my .profile to define this variable: 

In my experience, variations in script or executable behavior often result from environment (PATH, etc.). For this reason, I highly recommend using a wrapper script to configure the environment for the script or executable of interest and then use to test execution of the wrapper. It can also help to strip the environment before configuring any required environment variables in the wrapper script. This is also useful for cron, Jenkins, Rundeck, and many other ways of invoking scripts or executables. 

I am eager to know how others deal with this, since I don't understand the workaround that I fumbled through (which I'll list if it does not come up in answers). 

Now, after installing, the presence of this script causes the apt/deb system to keep the package instead of automatically causing it to disappear. Alternate workaround - without editing deb A different workaround - that does not require modifying the deb - is to just install again at the end to get things squared away: 

I have a 5TB external NTFS drive thats nearly full. It was exhibiting an odd behavior: I would copy a file to it, the total space free would adjust accordingly, but the file was nowhere to be found. So I ran check disk on it (from the Windows 7 UI, not the command line) on it and the check disk seemed to get stuck (The file number that it was working on did not change for over 36 hours), so I cancelled the check. Now, the drive is unreadable. It is recognized in device manager, and in it is shown as an unallocated drive, and it prompts to me allow disk management to initialize it with MBR or GPT. So, at least the drive isn't broken. How can I recover the data? 

Why? I have an old flip phone and that is the only audio format it understands for non-midi ringtones. I realize that dedicated software exists to do this but it would be great if I could do it with ffmpeg since I use that for many other conversions as well. 

I like the general concept in the Macworld article referenced by @Dave, but I don't want to nuke intentionally placed hidden files or folders (especially .git or .svn) and I want to clean up non-msdos filesystems as well as dos. Note that this will cause scripted deletion/destruction of your files, so I recommend you only do this if you pretty much comprehend what this script does and you're OK with potential mayhem. I took their suggested script and changed it as shown below. As they said there, before editing make sure to (so this script can invoke the original umount). After editing, and . 

Also: generally, I like to use -x to troubleshoot many of these types of things. You may be able to configure the Shell on the server side to enable the trace (-x) on login. If I think of others, I'll update. 

I tried 150%, but this caused unacceptable degradation to fonts in certain programs, such as MATLAB. At 125%, I am unhappy with some of the effects, but it is a fair balance to be able to read my email without zooming on every message. On the other hand it is a big downside to overcome deficiencies in one app, so I think I may just switch to this mode when I have a lot of email to read and then switch back - despite logging off and on twice! 

I just downloaded some source code from a repository and I'm trying to locate a specific file in it. For simplicity, assume that the entire project has the following directory hierarchy 

I've just installed a new program (let's call it foo) on my Linux machine. The program's files are in an unusual location that is not currently part of my . If I would like to be able to easily run this program from terminal, while in any directory, is it better to change my $PATH variable or to create an alias? Does it matter? For example, the alias method would be adding this: alias foo="/path/to/program/foo.sh" And the $PATH method would be: export PATH=/path/to/program;$PATH Which is better and why? 

As you can see from the first letter of the above output, the command thinks that is a file rather than a directory. Shouldn't the first letter be a (it shows a for all of my other directories)? How can I fix this? 

I have a directory which contains files and . I can cd into and out of directory with no problems. However, when I'm in superdirectory (one level up) and I use the command it prints the following: 

So it appears to run the command, but I am still in my home directory! I must be missing something really simple here. How can I get this tiny script to actually cd the directory in powershell? 

As far as I know I have the latest version of flash (I updated a couple days ago). For at least the last month I have noticed flash using far too much ram (between 200 and 500 MB). I notice it because my computer will stutter, and then it will resume fine after killing Flash's process. Its typically caused by a popunder ad with a lot of flash on it. Right now, it has spiked out of control. It is using 2 gigs of RAM. I have 7 tabs open and no popunders. It used to be that upgrading flash would fix this type of error, but it hasn't. I have to kill flash it seems like almost every half hour during a normal browsing session. Has anyone else seen a spike in Flash's usage? I have a decent machine (8 gb of ram, Samsung 840 SSD, and Intel 3840QM@2.7Ghz) and this makes firefox unusable and also slows down other programs. Is there a permanent solution to prevent flash from monopolizing my system during an average, modest browsing session? 

however, obviously, this no longer will be recursive. I know "foo" is in some of the files because the following command returns many results: 

I have a directory hierarchy that contains numerous files. I want to be able to recursively grep them for the string "foo". From what I've read online the following should work: 

The find command is able to locate test1.h but not test2.h. Why could this be? Is it possible for one of the folders to be non-searchable? Note, I'm doing all of this on a linux machine 

How do I use to the command on linux to locate a file where I know the file name but I don't know the file extension. For example, I want to find the but I don't know what extension it has. It might be it might be , it might be something entirely different. 

In linux, one can use the boot argument to specify how much memory the OS can use. For example, if you say the OS will believe that your computer has 2048 GB of ram regardless of how much physical memory you actually have. ( Is there a way to do this? My Macbook (running Mountain Lion) has 8GB of ram, but I need to boot with only 2GB of ram in order to install something via wine. How can I make the OS believe that I have less memory than I actually have? EDIT: To be more specific, I'm trying to run the game "Lego Racers 2" on my Mac, using wine (because it is a windows only game). According to this link ($URL$ (and some other sources that I've seen): "You cannot complete install if you have 3 or more gigs of RAM installed. The same problem exists in windows xp sp3 and vista sp1. Once installed you can add more ram." 

Since yesterday I am getting constant notifications of threats Symantec is finding, except they are all in the quarantine folder. They are then "moved" to the quarantine folder, and then again I get notifications about the same threats. Is it safe to delete my quarantine folder? Moreover, is something seriously wrong with my machine? Using Windows 7 SP1, Symantec Endpoint Protection 12.1.2015.2015.105 

When I have my Samsung Galaxy 8 plugged into my computer, and I drag an .m4a file to it, it prompts if I want to just copy the file, or "convert and copy" the file since it thinks my MTP device may not be capable of playing an m4a. So I say yes, expecting an mp3, but I get an even less useful .wma file instead. How can I change the convert and copy to covert to mp3 instead of wma? See this related question which seeks to disable the dialog entirely. Disable prompt to convert videos copied to media device 

In Firefox Firebug, under the tab, there is an option called "Disable Cache". I flip this on when doing redirect testing, and I have it flipped off otherwise. 

There is a Linux terminal command that I want to run on a remote machine. I can ssh to the machine and begin executing the command (it's output being directed to an output file); however, once I close the ssh connection and close my terminal window, the command stops. How can I have the command continue to execute even once I exit the remote machine? 

However, this never returns any results. If I replace the dot with the name of a file it does work. For example, 

I have a router setup in my apartment and for the past 3 month's it has been working fine. However, recently I've been having a hard time connecting to it, and when I do, it will drop my connection occasionally (Maybe a 10 second drop every 15 minutes). Using my computer's wireless diagnostic tool, I see that right before my Internet drops, there is a huge Noise spike. See the diagrams below. Does anyone have any suggestions of what could be wrong or how I can try to fix this? Below I've included what I think may be useful information: 

When you send an email that gets rejected by the server for some reason, you may get a bounce-back message with useful information about why the email was bounced, such as an RFC status code. Is there a way to get this same information without actually sending an email, like some kind of ping? So that, I could say: If I were to hypothetically send an email to address@domain.com, can I know definitively if it will bounce? And if it will bounce, what would the bounce-back look like? I have a distribution list. If a message bounces back, the intended recipient is flagged. If they get flagged 3 times consecutively, I stop sending them mail. The purpose is so my server does not waste resources constructing and queuing emails to bad addresses, while they sit and gum up my mail queue. I want to make the ban "probationary," where I test the address in the future to see if it still bounces. Maybe their inbox was just full, and now it isn't. Or maybe their server was blacklisting my IP, and I have since been whitelisted. Is there any way to determine this without actually sending them an email? If it bounces again, it could then potentially continue to gum up my mail queue and waste server resources, which I am trying to avoid. I'm using on .