For source code tracking, I would recommend something like Git (tortoisegit), Mercurial, tortoiseSVN, rdiff-backup or even zipping things (pick your favorite version WinZip, 7-Zip..). Robocopy can monitor a directory for change ( ) and make a copy somewhere, but there is no history. Use the switch to make the destination a duplicate. The touch part of this is the automatic and on change. There is a pay program called History Explorer ($20) that will save per change and once setup you don't really need to think about it. I have it and it seems to work as advertised. I've heard DocShield is similar to History Explorer, checks at intervals, and some have complained of it be buggy. I heard it was free for personal use, but the Docshield website is no longer active and on some site it is listed as freeware. Not sure if I would trust it if they aren't in business any more. rdiff-backup I've ran in to a problem trying to backup too much data in one shot (a few GB). On small project files I've had no problems. I hope one of these will help you. 

I would use a hardware firewall to protect the machine from both the Internet access and intranet access. I hardware firewall will give you reliability and speed. I would start with the machine having all the traffic blocked and then only allow those IP address, ports, protocols and directions that are needed for it to work. For example, if there will be no web surfing, then I wouldn't add a rule to open port 80 out. If you have a remote administrator, I would allow the ports for VNC in from their IP address. The same for FTP. This way if you aren't talking from the right IP address you are blocked. Also, if someone tries to go out on the machine and check their email they are blocked. I would also set these rules up for the rest of the intranet. I would only create rules to allow communication to those computers/ports/protocols needed. This way if a machine on the intranet gets compromised, it will have a harder time to spread to the unprotected machine. Basically, this machine would be in a DMZ configuration. I would also run Spybot Search & Destroy and SpywareBlaster and immunize the machine. There is no real time cost to this because it isn't a scan, but just a configuration setting. All this does is basically blacklist ActiveX controls and bad sites in the Hosts file. This can prevent a machine from being infected by preventing some bad things from being executed. Of course, you would have to allow via the hardware firewall the ability for the machine to update. You can do this manually or white list those sites. The firewall you choose should be able to alert you of problems. I would flag some rules to see if anyone is attempting to do anything they shouldn't (i.e. checking email, surfing the web, someone attempting access to the FTP port (especially if left on the default ports)). I use a Zywall which has all the above features, but there are many companies. One thing you should consider is hardware firewall have specifications on throughput. You want to get a firewall that can process the information fast enough. The remote users could also VPN in to some firewalls, that way you don't have to publicly expose some things like VNC or FTP. Also, some VNC software will allow you to use certificates to authenticate. This could help because it will allow better security because no username/password to guess and the end user could run the software and it would just work (less for the end user to remember). If not, I recommend using Keepass and having it generate a high entropy password that would be difficult for machines to break. I hope these tips help. (Also, because this is a business critical machine, I would image the system so if something did happen, you could get back to a known good state.) 

For that volume of data it does sound like coping to portable hard drive is the best way. If you are using Windows, I like Robocopy. You can tell it to copy to the portable drive anything newer than 7 or 8 days old (when you last backed up). The portable drive and remote drive I would use something like TrueCrypt in whole disk encryption. If you are only going to update your back while you are at the remote site, some companies make hardware encryption that use something like a USB dongle to unlock the drive. I guess this depends on how you manage the data remotely, i.e. drive by drive or something like a Drobo Pro (8 drive bays), and have all the disks at once or add as you go. BTW: If you do go with TrueCrypt, don't forgot to backup the volume header so if that potion of the disk is damaged you can still decrypt the disk. Hope this helps. Good luck. 

I've ran into the same problem. The solution I had to do was print in smaller page ranges, and when I reinserted the paper to fan the paper so the pages wouldn't stick to each other. I also monitored the printing so if the pages did jump, I would manually get the pages back on track and just reprint the few bad pages. Ultimately, I got a printer that duplexes, and it was worth the money for the duplex feature. 

I hadn't used this myself, but I found SkyDrive Explorer. I found some others but they didn't look as polished, and I hadn't used them, so I am not listing them. I hope this work for you. 

Try going in the Trust Center, check the box marked . Then add the location where the file is by clicking . 

The eBay auction you pointed to reminds of devices where you can extend USB connections over CAT5 wiring. That would extend the range the USB device can be from the computer, but the device I'm thinking of is not compatible with IP networks, it merely changed the electrical wiring from a USB cable to CAT5 cable. I agree with hyperslug that the NSLU2 would work, which is still available. I did a quick search and found Addonics NAS Adapter which is probably closer to what you were looking for. Hope this helps. EDIT: Found another Hitachi SimpleNET NAS, this one has two USB ports. 

If the file is saved in *.docx format, I believe it uses strong encryption that you would need to dictionary or brute force attack. A search on the internet will show many software companies. I don't know of any free ones. If you do a lot of searches you sell see two or three names pop-up over and over. There are also online services, if you want to pay and trust them with the contents of your document. I too learned the hard way and started using Keepass not only for website passwords, but document passwords as well. I know it won't help now, but maybe it will save you in the future. Good luck. 

If you don't mind paying for an editor UltraEdit calls that feature "Column Mode". UltraEdit is for Windows & Linux. If you are on Windows, I believe there are some freeware text editors with that feature, but I can't recall their names right now. If I find them I will update my answer. 

There are various viruses & worms that block sites that could help you protect against the infection. Many security experts say the only way to know you fixed the problem is reload the machines and patch before allowing it to be exposed to the internet. If you have access to a second machine you can always try to download your anti-virus definitions manually and install them, hopefully it also has rootkit protection, and run various anti-malware programs. Depending of what it really is, it may be quicker and more sure to backup the data, format the drive, reload the OS, load the AV, update the AV, patch the OS, then scan and restore the data. Some viruses can spead from machine to machine on your internal network, so you may want to check any of those machines as well, if you have any. Good luck. 

I think what you want to do is something like MLPPP to bond multiple lines together. First, I believe your ISP needs to support doing this. Also, this is usually a more advanced move so their isn't much support for this except for businesses. However, I did a quick search and found an interesting video on YouTube. I also found a PDF on how to configure multilink in a few OSs. I hadn't tried this, but seeing how easy it is makes me want to get another cable connection. If your ISP doesn't support multilink, I think the next best thing you can do is load balancing, meaning your computer/router would send request on the least busyest line. So you would only use one ISP modem for a connection, but any request could go out whichever connection is free. A problem this could cause is if you login to a website which uses load balancing on their end they may cache the IP you use for your state. In other words, it may appear you were logged out of a website, without warning but that is because you are using your other IP address to connect to the site and they don't realize it is still you. The other thing that may happen are sites like banks may wonder if your session was hijacked. I don't know how likely this is, but I would believe now a day some of these problems have been overcome given how mobile things are getting. There are some routers/firewalls that can designed for load balancing (ex. Netgear FVX538). I've found a hardware solution is always better but hardware costs money. I hope these tips help your need for speed. :) 

The full version of Acrobat can Optimize PDFs (with involves subsetting fonts, down sampling graphics, removing old features or data, removing broken things like links and so on). I'm sure other third part programs must as well. As far as freeware goes, there are some PDF compressors that will repack PDFs using a few different algorithms, but these programs usually don't get better result than Acrobat. Depending on how the PDF is made and what it contains (graphics/text), it may not have been generated as well as it could, and I would give the PDF compressors a shot. I couldn't recall the compressor I had used, so I did a quick search and found Free PDF Compressor. 

I need a utility to find RAR files that contain duplicate data (i.e. files within the RAR that hash the same, but could have different names). I can open the RARs and see the CRCs are the same, but I was hoping for a more automated process that would work in bulk (hundreds of files). Hashing the overall RAR won't help because the file contained within could have different names, or the archive could be compressed at different levels. If needed, a utility that would extract the contents of the RARs and then compare would work, but is not preferred. I would prefer a free utility for Windows, but a pay utility or a utility for Linux would be acceptable. 

The closest I came to this is manually managing the torrent instances so they would connect to different client and different segments of the files. Every now and then when a segment would get too popular and I couldn't prevent the machines from duplicating efforts I synced them. This way I could dedicate most of the bandwidth to other peers. When all the machines had all the parts, I would pick one machine to assemble the file and make the others peers and complete the file quickly. It would be nice if you could have distributed torrent clients working on a torrent like you would have distributed password cracking software. The clients would divide up the work and coordinate progress. So far I don't know of a distributed torrent team, but that would be killer, especially if you had geographically separated machines. 

I was able to upgrade my RAIDz pool which was created using FreeNAS (which uses FreeBSD) to OpenSolaris. I believe I needed to do a zpool import -f {name of pool} and it checked the drives and was able to determine which were part of the pool. So I hadn't recovered from an OS failure, but I did swap my pool drive without doing an export, and I would guess a failure of the OS drive would be similar. So in short if the FreeBSD drive fails, when you replace and reload, I believe all you would need to do is a zpool import to reattach the pool to that machine. As far as mirroring the OS drive, I think that is always a good idea. Another alternative is having something like Ghost or Acronis image of the OS drive. That way when you do the bare metal rebuild you can lay down a preconfigured image. In that case, the OS may not be any the wiser about the pool being previously created. Good luck.