The operating temperature is advertised to be sufficient (14 to 131° F) per the data sheet but the antennas are integrated omni-directional. A common approach to warehouses is to use directional antennae to direct the signal down aisles (along with adjusting the power level of the radios). So, to answer your question, no those are not the right AP's. A better way is go use directional antennae. 

I am working with a customer with atleast 2 private data centers. They have no terminal servers providing console access to their networking gear (switches and routers and firewalls). They have built a network management sub-network on top of the underlying data network. They have shut down both data centers for several hours twice already and lose management access. I am wrong in thinking this is a major problem? Shouldn't every data center have out of band access to their gear? I am thinking they should have a 4G LTE and/or analog line w modem into terminal servers (for example, Cisco routers with async network modules and octa cables into each devices console port). Is there any other proper means of out of band management for networking gear than a terminal server with octa cable into each device? 

Packet exchange between IP endpoints on differing subnets occurs through a gateway/router. VLANs need to be created on both devices and a trunk link enabled between the two. Layer 3 interfaces created and maybe routing/static routes? Endpoints typically get IP addresses and default gateway addresses via DHCP. 

A PBX is typically implemented in organizations that have many users who each require a telephone. They typically dial one another via 4 digit dialing. If a PBX phone user wants to call and order a pizza, they typically dial 9, for example, to obtain an outside line, then dial the public (PSTN) phone number of the pizza place. A single phone line is required for every concurrent call from the PBX system to the PSTN. So, organizations can get analog lines for PSTN access or they can get digital lines if they have enough users/need. Nowadays SIP is another PSTN offering. 

A tier 1 connection is one where your carrier owns the plumbing from end to end without riding a 3rd party network. A tier 2 connection is one where your carrier has to ride another carriers network at some point. On and on. I highly doubt that Level3 is the source of significant delay or jitter. The most likely culprit is the access circuit(s). Try using an Internet friendly codec for your VoIP such as iLBC. As for audio streaming, proper buffering will solve any delay/jitter issues. 

WiFi Bridging, you need a wireless bridge. Basically, you purchase 2 wireless bridges which are a type of access point with a directional antenna. Typically, each wireless bridge device will have a wired port (in addition to the wireless interface) that plugs in to the wired network. However, there are dual mode access points that can both bridge and provide WLAN access. The wireless bridge typically needs to be placed with line of sight to the other bridge and are usually installed external (outside the building). 

There are both hardware and software (configuration) concerns. Latency, jitter, out-of-order packets, MTU, codec choice, link characteristics, proper atmospheric conditions (heating/cooling/operating temp ranges), per link concerns (such as Fresnel zone, interference, etc for Wireless and cable type for wired), routing, network security. Those are a few. 

Troubleshooting is required. First identify the culprit. Turn off VRRP (or simply power off one of those routers). Does that fix it? If so look at the VRRP config. Otherwise, power off a VSS switch. Does that fix it? Start by identifying the problem... Not sure if you are talking FEX's here but ideally those are NOT dual homed (as in your diagram), provided that your servers are. The proper way to do it is shown below. 

Typically you don't set VLAN id on the PC/endpoint. The VLAN is set by the network equipment (switch). You will need a router (sometimes also called a layer 3 switch) in order to route between the VLAN's. There is something called inter-VLAN bridging where you essentially put both VLAN's in a configuration where each sees the others frames. In this case, the secondary-address would enable you to talk to the other VLAN, provided each VLAN had a corresponding IP subnet associated with it. 

My routing is separated from their routing. We're able to use a faster converging Interior Gateway Protocol. We're not using Border Gateway Protocol as an IGP. 

Do not redirect from the ASA. The simple solution is to have a layer 3 switch whose IP address is the default gateway and can route traffic appropriately. An ASA is not a router. 

You can configure a lower privilege level directly on the console port. However, anyone who has physical access to the router/switch (the console port) actually can perform a factory reset on it. So, that kinda goes against the idea of implementing lower level access on the console port it seems. 

No. Router ACL's can turn off / disable unnecessary types of traffic to the point of protocol and port number. The application / server is the more important element to focus on. Also remember that security also includes availability of a resource (see DDOS attacks). If you have a secret to keep do not store it in any format, including ink on paper. 

Stack mode is not recommended for a pair of core switches as it is a shared control plane / single point of failure and software upgrade will result in core outage. This is not acceptable design. The core should aim for better than 99.999% uptime (5m 15.6s / year). Use Dell's VLT instead. 

Roaming is the term used to describe a wireless client moving from one AP's coverage area to another. In WiFi there is layer2 roaming and less commonly layer3 roaming; the roaming decision is left to the client. It is known that radio resource management plays a huge role in the roaming process. For example, an AP can be forced to not accept low quality connections which results in forcing the client to look for another. 

It depends on whether or not transcoding is required. If you are using a codec in-house that is incompatible with your SIP providers gateway then yes. Otherwise, no. Same with Unity Express voicemail. If the voicemail is using the codec you run in-house, no transcoding required. However if you are compressing voicemails (recording them in g.729, for example), then you will have to invoke the DSP to transcode. Otherwise, users can't leave VM's. 

OSPF Feature Guide for EX4600 Switches > Juniper OSPF Overview CLI Quick Configuration To quickly configure an OSPF interface on a broadcast or point-to-point network and to allow the inbound OSPF into the interfaces that are active, copy the following commands, paste them into a text file, remove any line breaks, change any details necessary to match your network configuration, copy and paste the commands into the CLI at the [edit] hierarchy level, and then enter commit from configuration mode. 

SDN architectures separate control and data, and can be achieved by GRE overlay tunneling all packets back to a controller or by using a remote control protocol such as OpenFlow®. "SDN compatible" networking devices don't really technically exist. In other words, in the wireless networking world we have WiFi Compatible access points - a special stamp/logo that results from interoperability testing. There is no such thing in the SDN world. SDN is all marketechture. Every networking manufacturer markets their own flavor of SDN, e.g. Cisco ACI, Cisco Meraki, Juniper OpenContrail, and VMware NSX. Regarding the metrics for a routing algorithm, if you plan on developing a custom routing algorithm you would create that. Not sure I understand this second question... 

Practically speaking - IKE, Internet Key Exchange (IKE), is synonymous with Internet Security Association Key Management Protocol (ISAKMP). 

15.1T introduced . This might work for you. The ports go into state for both and by default when no endpoint NIC is connected (link down). You could syslog these events to a server and roll some script to correlate down vs up dates per port. Cisco EEM could be utilized to automatically disable a port once it goes down, but I don't think this would be a good idea as it would be difficult to administer/manage. Look at 802.1X Port-Based Authentication if security is the concern. 

Yes this is possible. It's quite basic really. The subnets are typically bound to a designated VLAN, each of which has a default gateway to enable inter-vlan routing/connectivity. First, create an identical numbered/named VLAN for each subnet on both switches, maybe call them VLAN192 and VLAN100. Enable a link (an uplink) between the switches to carry traffic for both VLAN's. This is called a trunk interface. Now that each switch has access to both VLAN's, enable IP routing on one of them and configure an interface VLAN192 and an interface VLAN100 with an IP address on each subnet, in other words interface VLAN192 gets 192.168.0.254 255.255.255.0, for example. Same for other VLAN. Now, clients with IP addressing including a default gateway will be able to communicate cross VLAN. If your switches don't support routing (layer3), you will require a dedicated router for interVLAN connectivity. 

Single Mode Fiber, SMF, is typically used for cable runs measured in miles, or kilometers. The laser-based optics are relatively expensive. SMF is typically used by carriers and on very large campuses, industrial plants. Multimode Fiber, MMF, is used for cable runs measured in hundreds of feet or meters. The LED-based optics are relatively affordable. MMF is typically used in multistory buildings and on smaller campuses such as high schools. 

Data Sheet says: Embedded IP Security with Secure Sockets Layer (IPSec/SSL) VPN hardware acceleration ● Embedded hardware encryption acceleration is enhanced to provide higher scalability, which, combined with an optional Cisco IOS Software Security license, enables WAN link security and VPN services (both IPSec and SSL acceleration). ● The onboard encryption hardware outperforms the advanced integration modules (AIMs) of previous generations. 

You need a device that supports Port Address Translation (PAT), Dynamic Host Control Protocol (DHCP), and basic routing. Your best bet is to get a consumer grade 'router' and test it one night and then have it on hand for if the primary device fails. BTW, a windows server can do this too, but, realistically, just go buy a $50 router. 

In order to be considered Wi-Fi gear, the wireless LAN equipment must pass inspection / testing ensuring backwards compatability with legacy standards. So, when you see the Wi-Fi logo, you know it is backward compatable. More at Certification Benefits. 

Terminal server describes this functionality of local console port access which allows you to power cycle and/or configure the box remotely. HP's iLOM ports offers this capability all baked in. Cisco's UCS servers offer something called CIMC, Cisco Integrated Management Controller. For it to be out-of-band, the network used to access the terminal server must be separate from the network provided by the equipment you are accessing. 

What you have is two multilayer (layer 3+) access points - one manufactured by Asus and the other by TP-link. Both support multiple SSID's (link). You simply need to configure 2 SSID's on the TP-link - one guest SSID with or without basic password, the other (inside/protected) SSID being secured with WPA and not broadcast/advertised is typical. The TP-link AP does not appear to support trunking so the routing between SSID's (subnets inside-tp and guest-tp) is going to take place on the tp link AP itself. Then you will have 2 separate SSID for the Asus and be sure the channels don't overlap. Basically you have 2 separate AP's and 4 separate WiFi subnets. The TP-Link plugs in to the Asus for Internet/wired network access. You should get some Meraki AP's and your life would be much easier. 

A VLAN limits the scope of BUM traffic and isolates failure domains. A VLAN defines the scope of an Ethernet which may exist on any number of ports on a single or multiple switches. It is possible for multiple subnets to communicate over a single VLAN but you usually see a single subnet per VLAN. If on a shared VLAN, secondary IP addresses can be added by end users to switch subnets. 

Those are marketing terms. They have no technical meaning based on industry stamdards (IEEE / IETF / OSI). If you dont know which to purchase or which you need you would benefit from contacting a networking equipment reseller. Each manufacturer's website usually has a way to search for certified resellers in your area. 

After this you can use the and commands When you are done be sure to remove the above condition we set with the command 

Latency issues might not be specific enough. You can certainly get round trip (millisecond) response times using basic ICMP tools like ping and traceroute. However, poor application performance / response times could be rooted in higher layer issues. If the network looks good via ICMP, try looking at your application logs and/or debugging tools for a clue. 

It's the Internet, not internet (capital I). Internet Protocol, IP, is the (no so) secret sauce. Link layer protocols such as Ethernet and WiFi enable communications links, but network layer protocols such as IP allow internetworking, the passing of traffic/communications over multiple links. IP is basically some open source software. 

Try Peering DB. They include a parameter named "network type". This appears to provide the info you are looking for. 

NERC / FERC / HIPAA / PCI are all authoritative bodies detailing secure administration of IT systems. If different departments need different types of access to these devices, look for a multi-level administration facility/feature on these products and TACACS which enables logging of activity per username (RADIUS does not provide this functionality). Hope that helps. 

Add a secondary IP address to each NIC card. The primary being in 192.168.116.X and the secondary being in 12.32.8.X. Or, the other way around - it does not matter which one is secondary as long as each NIC has an address on both subnets. You do not need a second NIC card. This secondary IP address is added/configured in software. 

your routers default route should point to the ISP gateway Finally, you should have 2 links between the router and switch stack. See port-channel config guide. 

Cisco IOS Quality of Service Solutions Configuration Guide, Release 12.2 GTS Enabled on the Interface Example This example shows the configuration of two traffic-shaped interfaces on a router. Ethernet interface 0 is configured to limit User Datagram Protocol (UDP) traffic to 1 Mbps. Ethernet interface 1 is configured to limit all output to 5 Mbps. 

The third party components will work fine. If you find otherwise, I would love to hear back... Don't resell them as Cisco though. People have gone to prison for doing so... Also, if you tell Cisco TAC they will void your SMARTnet contract out. 

Telnet or SSH into the Cisco switch. Type ; press enter. Unplug the cable or shut NIC via the OS from the endpoint in question 

The assignment of VLAN is done by the network, not by the endpoint. On a wired LAN (switch) this is configured per port, the default is usually VLAN 1. On a wireless LAN (AP), this is configured per SSID (per WiFi network it is said). The AP plugs into the switch via a trunk port that carries all VLANs. This link is called a trunk link. The frames are said to be tagged to a particular VLAN. So, the AP may broadcast more than one VLAN. Maybe teacher VLAN has a password and student vlan does. 

I have a customer using Vyatta vRouters (Brocade vRouters). They have deployed 2 separate vRouters for redundancy, each with it's own ISP connection. The ISP's are not the same. Does Vyatta have something like Cisco IOS's IP SLA tracking, whereby I can automatically failover and failback my ISP connection (even though my link light / physical/logical NIC never goes link down)? Anyone configure this before? 

Local Area Network, LAN, and Wide Area Network, WAN, ports distinguish between your and the providers interfaces, respectively. 

Couple of things. First, the link may not go down so depending on link down to failover may not actually work. Second is NAT/PAT. Cisco has published a how to for exactly what you are looking to do. See ISP Failover with Default Routes using IP SLA Tracking 

Network diagrams typically consist of both a physical topology view and a logical topology view. So, for your physical topology view, use the manufacturer's chassis icons along with rack icons. For the logical topology, you can use fuzzy wires (for Ethernet), clouds (for like services / subnets), etc. Data Center's are beginning to use compute/network orchestration systems such as OpenStack which may include SDN (where the virtual networking function such as a vFirewall or vRouter follows a vm when dragged / dropped around the physical boxes) so signifying that in a diagram requires some creativity.