If the huntstop attribute is set, an incoming call does not roll over (hunt) to another ephone-dn when the called ephone-dn is busy or does not answer and a hunting strategy has been established that includes this ephone-dn. When the no huntstop command is used on the ephone-dn, the call would ring on the first ephone-dn and go through any hunting defined on the two channels in a dual-line ephone-dn before being sent to the next most preferred ephone-dn that also has a matching destination pattern. This will continue until an ephone-dn with huntstop configured is reached or no more dial peers (ephone-dns) have matching destinations patterns. The difference in configuration between overlaid ephone-dns with call waiting and overlaid ephone-dns without call waiting is that overlaid ephone-dns with call waiting use the c keyword in the button command and overlaid ephone-dns without call waiting use the o keyword. Call waiting allows phone users to know that another person is calling them while they are talking on the phone. Phone users hear a call-waiting tone indicating that another party is trying to reach them. Calls to IP phones with soft keys can be answered with the Answer soft key. Example- A Cisco Unified IP Phone 7910 (maximum two call-waiting calls) has a button configured with a set of overlaid ephone-dns with call waiting (button 1c1,2,3,4). A call to ephone-dn 1 is answered. A call to ephone-dn 2 generates call-waiting notification. Calls to ephone-dn 3 and ephone-dn 4 will wait in line and remain invisible to the phone user until one of the two original calls ends. When the call to ephone-dn 1 ends, the phone user can then talk to the person who called ephone-dn 2. The call to ephone-dn 3 issues call-waiting notification while the call to ephone-dn 4 waits in line The following example demonstrates call waiting for overlaid ephone-dns that are shared on two phones: ephone 1 button 1c1,2,3,4 ! ephone 2 button 1c1,2,3,4 

CCNA requires the student to be familiar with the IOS operating system, this makes the Cisco 2948 unusable for a CCNA lab as it runs Catalyst OS (CatOS) and there is no way to upgrade the operating system from CatOS to IOS. So while it may have more features, for a pure CCNA lab it's not really usable. Personally I would also recommend the following equipment (if you are not opting for GNS3): 

ARP is layer 2. The reason being is that a broadcast is sent on layer 2 (data link layer) and ARP will normally not traverse to layer 3 (network layer). However it can provide extra features to the layer 3 protocol. The truth is that not all protocols fit the OSI model exactly, because after all it's just a model. If you really want to push it into a spot I'd say ARP is a layer 2.5 protocol. It fits layer 2, but doesn't fit layer 3 completely. The same discussion is often held about ICMP and where it fits in: layer 3 or layer 4. A good explanation on these exceptions is: 

If you say as optimal as possible you there is some flexibility, but it also makes the student think. A classic example we used to get was: 

A call to ephone-dn 1 rings on ephone 1 and on ephone 2. Ephone 1 answers, and the call is no longer visible to ephone 2. A call to ephone-dn 2 issues a call-waiting notification to ephone 1 and rings on ephone 2, which answers. The second call is no longer visible to ephone 1. A call to ephone-dn 3 issues a call-waiting notification to ephone 1 and ephone 2. Ephone 1 puts the call to ephone-dn 1 on hold and answers the call to ephone-dn 3. The call to ephone-dn 3 is no longer visible to ephone 2. A call to ephone-dn 4 is issues a call-waiting notification on ephone 2. The call is not visible on ephone 1 because it has met the two-call maximum by handling the calls to ephone-dn 1 and ephone-dn 3. (Note that the call maximum is six for those phones that are able to handle six call-waiting calls, as previously described.) 

From your description I can say that it is very much possible, and in any PBX. You should check with your PBX provider if the GSM and Analog Gateway are compatible with it or not. If they are compatible the call forwarding part won't be a hassle. 

As far as I can read in the ICMP codes, there is no equivalent within ipv6. Below you can find a table showing all possible ICMPv6 codes. 

Personally I would not go with simple WPA2 but with EAP, also make sure you disallow communication between clients. 

I think you should first opt to run a dual stack, meaning to run IPv4 and IPv6 next to each other. In that way you can steadily progress to an all IPv6 environment once IPv4 is getting faced out. Some countries do not speak IPv4 anymore (like China) and others haven't opted in for IPv6 or only partially. 

While they may be on the same network, it is still easier to seperate them as you can restrict and control inbound traffic a lot better (because you seperate them in groups) based on the purpose. It might be that you do not want people connecting through the VPN to have access to all machines in the network. 

My bridge has em1 and ovpns1 bridged. I noted with tcpdump that ICMP is reaching the bridge between LAN and the VPN segment. But it's not put onto the em1 interface for some reason. My pfsense is running on an ESXi host with th vSwitch port enabled in promiscious mode. Firewall rules allow in and outbound traffic regardless origin or destination. 

I don't think this will be possible. PC Port on Phone is an access port and you can't change it to trunk port. Why don't you connect PC directly to Phone and then phone to 8 port switch. One trunk to 8-port switch from data switch and your problem is solved. 

Cubic functions can have both convex and concave portions, meaning that they can grow more slowly in some portions(concave) and more quickly in others(convex). In addition to that CUBIC also has a TCP friendly region that operates when window is small to ensure that CUBIC is not penalized relative to regular TCP. More specifically, the window size of standard TCP in terms of time elapsed. 

That is official documentation from Cisco, so I don't doubt that. As far as L2 header is concerned it is added depending on the L2 technology(Ethernet, Frame Relay etc.) The document is not taking L2 header in consideration, but when you will calculate packet size for VoIP Packet, it will be taken into consideration. 

Transmission rate is not same as bandwidth. Channel Bandwidth – the range of signal bandwidths allowed by a communication channel without significant loss of energy (attenuation). Channel Capacity or Maximum Data rate – the maximum rate (in bps) at which data can be transmitted over a given communication link, or channel. A typical method of performing a measurement is to transfer a 'large' file from one system to another system and measure the time required to complete the transfer or copy of the file. The throughput is then calculated by dividing the file size by the time to get the throughput in megabits, kilobits, or bits per second. From the definition I would say they would be considering propagation delay also. 

You should reserve a seperate pool of IP addresses which will not be distributed by the DHCP server. This will allow you to have spare IPs which you can use to assign static addresses. An example from the Mikrotik website: 

I'm trying to find out what the command line option is to set the password memory of an F5 BIG IP. I know Password Memory can be set from the GUI but I'm not sure how it is done using the tmsh? I reviewed the online documentation of F5, but this command wasn't listed. 

So I'm using a pfsense openvpn to bridge my LAN segment so VPN users can access the servers. The problem I'm having now is that I can establish a connection, I can ping the LAN server from the VPN, but as soon as I ping the client from the LAN server, there is no connectivity anymore between both parties. So: 

Turns out there was an implicit rule in the firewall defined on the bridge which dropped fragmented packets. This is not shown in the normal firewall overview. I ended up turning off this 'feature' in the system ->advanced -> firewall/NAT section. 

I have a Cisco 3550. I wanted to connect a 9971(used) to it, but it is not going beyond POST. I see the keys blinking but nothing happens after that, and this happens in a loop. Could that be a problem with Phone or with Switch? Switch Information - C3550 Software (C3550-IPSERVICESK9-M), Version 12.2(44)SE6 Model number: WS-C3550-24PWR-SMI 

There are a few more differences between seperator o and c. For further explanation you can check SRND for CME. If there is still some confusion, please leave a comment. I can explain it to you. 

eth 2 Address: 10.0.0.0 Netmask: 255.0.0.0 = 8 Wildcard: 0.255.255.255 => Network: 10.0.0.0/8 Broadcast: 10.255.255.255 HostMin: 10.0.0.1 HostMax: 10.255.255.254 Hosts/Net: 16777214 eth 1 Address: 10.10.0.0 Netmask: 255.255.0.0 = 16 Wildcard: 0.0.255.255 => Network: 10.10.0.0/16 Broadcast: 10.10.255.255 HostMin: 10.10.0.1 HostMax: 10.10.255.254 Hosts/Net: 65534 Both are conflicting. 

I would suggest you to connect NAS to the router instead of switch and camera also(if you have only one camera). 3 different networks would do. 

The Window Size field in each TCP header indicates the amount of empty space, in bytes, remaining in the receive buffer. The field is 16 bits in TCP, but with the Windows Scale option, values larger than 65535 can be used. Windows scale option increases the Window Size from 16 bit to 30 bit. Instead of changing the field size, however, the header still holds a 16 bit value, and an option is defined that applies a scaling factor to the 16 bit value. Window Scale RFC is 1323. (TCP/IP Illustrated Vol. 1.)