On a side in the seller's world it is needed to have one unique ID for each couple of model and price: you need to control how much you pay your item and which will be the selling price. The world of computer producers creates "trillion" of variants. If the producer will not give one subcode, the seller will create one SKU. Often they will add their one even if one subcode just exists, and for this you will never find in the producer web site. The marketing guys are worried that normal people will be scared if the model is too long and they press to have short names, easy to be remembered maybe with some fashion name (Zenbook) to inspire. On the other side some clients would like to have the possibility to do comparison and to identify quickly the model, maybe not for the internal components but for shape and general class (in your example UX303LA)... It's almost a general schema, for Asus is a not new problem, and from past you take hints when official documentation misses: 

The url of the image you are searching for is included in a tag So you can download with the page, pass through to select a unique line, clean of what is not needed with . Once you obtain in this way the url of your image (in the script in inside the variable ), you can use again to download it. This is valid till the internal code of the page will be of this type. Else you have to find another way to select the unique tag that is interesting for you. 

Right now, Bob can ping the Printer and hence print on it, but not Alice. I tried to bridge the wifi and Ethernet connections on Bob, but the result was that Bob lost both wifi and ethernet - nothing worked. I will gladly provide any more information as needed. How do I configure so that Alice could ping the Printer? EDIT1 

I have tried to bridge the Ethernet and Wireless adapters on Bob, but once bridged I cannot ping google from Bob (my connectivity test). Deleting the bridge restores the ping to google from Bob. I want to USE the Printer, but I suppose I need to ping it first. I know for sure that Printer answers pings, because Bob can ping it. I must add that Alice cannot ping the Ethernet address of Bob - 192.168.0.2. I have a feeling that if I get Alice to ping it, then it would also ping the Printer. But with the bridge on Bob not working (I have no idea why) I am kind of lost on how to make it work. 

My problem is that I want Alice to be able to ping the Printer, but I have no idea how. The actual addresses are: 

What is the problem? Why cannot I view the directory from the remote session to bob, but I can view it alright when logged in to bob by RDP? 

I have read the various posts about Chrome being the culprit. Some posts mention WPF applications when ran from within the Visual Studio, others incriminate it to the Sql Server. I run none of these and still get the same result. How do I restore the windows clock resolution back to being 64 times per second? 

The users' system configuration files are usually under the home of each single user. Those are files and directories often hidden (they start with ). You should backup even them with that command. Check with and to have some useful things to put in the backup filename. E.g. the line 

I understand you want to replace all your images with a lower quality version. Merging the above two command you can do something similar to 

Usually from the BIOS you can select from which device/drive to start from. It is motherboard depending... but usually you can switch the order entering in the BIOS and saving the changes. You can even try to disable an HDD and hide it to the other operative system; I said you can try because some operative system can in some cases overcame this feature and see the HDD however. Some BIOSes allow you, pressing a special combinations of keys, to enter in a reduced menu with only the list of devices from which you can boot, then you can select the one you prefer. All depends from the couple of BIOS/Motherboard you have. 

Short answer: it is not working because with you are trying to execute a command named that has to exist_ somewhere in your and has to be executable. How to edit: If you want to edit it, instead, you should write something like 

Last but not least, if you have no intention to install any program, you can use one of the many sites that allow you to do it online. As more hard alternative there are some python scripts based on PyPDF library available online... 

I have this problem - Skype 7 causes my machine to hang up every other time whenever I finish talking to someone. This did not happen with older versions and searching the Internet reveals that many folks have this problem with Skype 7 (any version) and that the only viable solution is to downgrade. The only problem is that all the downgrade links are either dead or bogus. So, does anyone know of a reliable archive where I could download the full Skype 6 installer (not the web installer, of course)? 

At the end of the day I did a repair-install of Windows 8 as described here - $URL$ and then Windows Update and then installed .NET 4.5.2 Developer Pack. That did it. 

I do not know what happened with my chrome, but fonts are horrible on some pages. For example, consider the following page - $URL$ This is how it looks like on my Chrome: 

I am running Windows 8 (64 bits). At some point while I intended to delete all the files under I found myself attempting to delete all the files under - long live the little difference. Of course, I failed to delete most of them, because they were locked by the OS, but I did succeed to delete quite a few. That is a major major bummer for me. The problem is that reinstalling .NET would not help - all the repair/install packages tell me .NET is installed and is perfectly fine. However,some things are definitely broken. For example, running the TFS command line tool spits this: 

Pure built in, without coreutils I found that this solution works in relying on a built-in command without calling an external executable. It works on system where eventually are not even been installed the coreutils [1] 

So the images inside your pdf have different sizes and encryption. With the following command you will extract them all: 

The Hdd and Usb pen drive do not keep by themself information about the computer connected. Usually. (Some special usb devices that seems usb pen drive but that have some computing components inside can do whatever they are programmed for). But the computers can leave temporary files with information about themselves (but even hidden trash can directories...) 

There is written (you have more than one) that the script fail when copy () a file to , `/lib/ ... usually on the main partition. How to fix Get an idea from then 

MATE MATE is a fork of the now unmaintained GNOME 2. MATE provides an intuitive and attractive desktop environment using traditional metaphors for Linux and other Unix-like operating systems. 

really cosy; you can create scientific plots, perfect for and scientific publications or thesis. It is not able to do any 3d rendering as instead povray 

I'm running under Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS (“Long Term Support”). After the login procedure the skype window becomes white, allowing me to open each of the commands-menu, but practically allowing me only to minimize the window itself or to close the program. I've tried to update , then to upgrade all the system with no success. I've tried to reinstall the package with no success again ( then , eventually even using the option for the removing command). Even if not usually needed under Linux, neither expressly request by the update procedure, I even reboot the system. Same situation. From I obtain 

However, in this method I am losing long file names and this causes installation to fail. For example: 

VirtualBox has an option to create a bridged connection, where it just gets IP from DHCP server at my router, and acts like another machine in my network. How can I achieve this? I tried manually creating a bridge with package, but no luck so far. EDIT: I am using Ubuntu 14.04. 

I am building a Custom Ubuntu ISO. Everything is ready in folder. Therefore I apply this script to build my ISO. 

Click an a spot Hold the clicking Move the mouse relatively 100 pixels left Stop holding Wait a little, return to 1 

I want to automate a task, I need to scroll a Google like map interface, what I essentially do normally is: 

I have a local are network . I use libvirt and I want my virtual machines to use this network also, at least a sub-network of it, such as . However, all the libvirt bridge options creates another network, and I cannot set my them to use my network, VirtManager gives an error, and manually defining a forwarded network ``` 

You are using a version of Node, which is kinda beta version, which may have compability issues. Also, your script says that you should supply --nodedir= but you supply it to which is not probably the right place. Find out where is your node installation at by or and point to that directory in your install command.