But since this creates a read-lock in my 2nd master (Slave 1). The changes that I make in Master 1 is not propagated to Master 2 (Read-only). What should I do such that - changes in Master 1 are getting updated to Master 2 but Master 2 should not be in write mode, Master-master(Active/Passive). Is it possible to do this? Regds 

I'm running my MySQL backups through cron scheduled every night, but the thing is in cron the username and password is given for it run, is there any other way I can securely run the backups? where I can credentials remain secure only to the DBAs and not to anyone else? Btw, I use percona server. But I use mysqldump for backups, just that it has to be secure. Thanks! 

While trying to install Mariadb galera cluster through yum in my RHEL server I get the following error: 

What is the difference between instant client and the original Oracle client? The Oracle client is almost 800MB and the instant client is not so much. I need to install oracle client, ODBC drivers and JDBC drivers. What is the best way to go and which one should I choose? The original 800 megs client or the instant client? 

I have a need to see a trend of data for "month to date" So I want to pull the 1st x number of days of each month for the last 14 months, and the n aggregate this. My data has approximately 10k data points each day So far I have only been able to figure out how to do this by writing a double while loop - the outer loop counting down the months and the inner loop selecting each day and aggregating the data for the day - then storing it in a temp table. Once I have stepped through each month and each day I then selet the data from the temp table and aggregate this to give me monthly data summed for each contract type. For various reasons I need to run my select 4 times for each day. This all ends up meaning my SQL takes around 120 secs to run. This is sub-optimal - as I am hoping to have this used by SSRS to pull a report on demand when a user wants to see it. Making them wait 2 whole minutes? Not Desirable - especially considering primary target audience is the exec team Here is my SQL (NB I've changed a couple of table/ column names ) 

I'm having a Recovery catalog database 12c version. While I'm trying to register the target database (11g) with the catalog I get the following error: 

I have two databases - one is 11g and another 12c. 12c db has the exact data of 11g (expdp/impdp). Now I'm facing an error in one of the tables with unique constraint error. I have checked the structure of the table and constraints enabled for the table in both the databases, that is same as well. Now how can I sort this out? I'm facing this error on the application which is running on it, when I click one of the tabs. is the error i'm getting 

With the above setting, I know I can get to know what action has been performed (alter,create,update,etc) but will I be able to fetch the SQL statments (all DML operations) with the exact SQL statement fired from that schema from the audit records? Let me know how? If the above is not possible, what is required to fetch the exact SQL statement that is run by the schema. 

I am hoping someone can tell me how to accomlish what I am after... Which is to do away with the loops and have the data aggregate in a single operation NB I have done my aggregation for full month periods - that was a piece of cake compared to this 

I did a bit of hunting after @LowlyDBA gave his answer, and came across an extension to SSMS that does exactly what I was looking for! SSMS Schema Folders 

When I went to use it in my select statement - the query just returned the case statement as text and didn't evaluate it. I also was unable to use it in the group by - I got this error message: 

I have a user account in a database that can create tables and Stored Procedures. I would like to confirm if this user account can Create Schemas - WITHOUT trying to do it first. (I am part of finance not IT) If I CAN create Schema's then I'll ask IT for permission to go ahead and do so. If I CAN'T then I'll just continue to wait for IT to do it on the Service Desk request I put in some time ago sigh Is there a command I can run in SSMS that will tell me this without actually creating a new Schema? I have also taken a couple of screenshots of this user's permissions - maybe they will have the answer? 

I have a two node RAC (Oracle 12c) on linux. I have 5 SCAN listeners configured. Currently, if I do a I notice that out of the 5 scan listeners, one scan is running in one node and the remaining 4 in the another node. Is it necessary for me to relocate one or two listeners running on node 2 to node 1? Will my connections still be load balanced even if I have no scan listeners running in node 1 and all the 5 are running in node 2? If yes, how? When does one actually need to relocate the scan to another node? 

I have a OEM 12c (12.1.0.4) running in my setup in which I have registered over 70-80 databases. I see the plugin updates with versions of each target (Oracle database, MS-SQL, MySQL) and I have the downloaded the plugin updates as well. 

I'm new to SQL anemometer. I need to know whether this tool would be able to query to the source database and analyze the slow query logs on real time or not? 

The purpose for this UNION is to return all data for a timeperiod, and ALSO to return data for the same timeperiod for 12 months previously EDIT: Added a missing "CATCH-ALL" EDIT2: Added a second ½ of the UNION statement EDIT3: Corrected the GROUP BY to include some other necessary elements 

I wrote a case statement with > 100 choices where I am using the same statement in 4 places in a simple query. The same query twice with a union between them but also is doing a count and therefore the group by also contains the case statement. This is to relabel some company names where different records for the same company are spelled differently. I tried to declare a variable as a VarChar(MAX) 

Ideally I would like to have the CASE in just a single place - so that there is no chance of me updating one line and not replicating that elsewhere. Is there some way of doing this? I am open to other ways (Like maybe a function - but I am not sure how to use them like this) Here is a sample of the SELECT I am currently using 

I have two physical servers, hosting 6 two node RAC databases running in 11.2.0.3 version (both grid and database). I'm told to have the grid software in 11.2.0.4 version and the databases in the same 11.2.0.3 version since there could be future plans to upgrade the database to a higher version. Plan is to create new grid software (11.2.0.4) and create a new ASM instance with new luns and create diskgroups with the new luns, create a new database and then export/import from old database to this new database. So that the new database will have the Grid and ASM running in 11.2.0.4 and database in same 11.2.0.3. Perform the same activity for all 6 databases, post that uninstall 11.2.0.3 software and binaries, resulting in the required result wherein only one ASM instance will be running (11.2.0.4). Is the above mentioned activity feasible? I'm not in a situation to upgrade 11.2.0.3 grid to higher version as I cannot afford downtime. But then the above mentioned activity will have two ASM instances running at the same time for some period. I can add/clear doubts if the mentioned activity is unclear.