I need to have a range of AS numbers which are allocated by RIRs/NIRs. I guess it is every number from 0 to 2^32 except those below: 

I ran a test-setup which caused excessive amount of collisions on Cisco FastHub 400 port. This caused switch to isolate this port. For example in case of port 6, this has happened 766 times: 

Now if I search through the whole SNMP OID tree of SNMP agent in r1 router, I receive following results: 

It seems to me that command forces TACACS+ client(Cisco ISR router in my case) to take account the configuration snippet in TACACS+ daemon( from $URL$ configuration file. For example: 

Policy-map is applied to Fa0/1 interface in outgoing direction. Now if I execute command, I see the following output: 

IS-IS Hello packets contain IPv4(and IPv6 address). For example see the "IPv4 Interface" field in this IS-IS Hello packet: 

What is the reason for U/L bit in MAC address? Or is it solely for identifying if MAC address is locally generated or not and technically it is not used anywhere? 

1) Am I correct that "30 second offered rate" is a bandwidth which comes into service-policy named ? 2) Why there are two lines "shape (average) cir" and "target shape rate"? 3) Am I correct that this part: 

If I remove the command I end up in IOS shell in privilege level 1 and is not automatically executed. However, I would like to have an authoritative answer and does this command have any other purpose? 

Is it correct to say that packet forwarding engines for MX960 series are DPC, DPCE, MPC, etc? And all those DPC, DPCE, etc cards actually include one or more packet forwarding engines? So in similar fashion CFEB is the packet forwarding engine for M10i and it contains actually one or more FPCs? 

Am I correct that "show pfe route ip" extracts information from PFE and "show route forwarding-table" extracts information from routing-engine copy of forwarding table? So this means that in latter case there is no RE<->PFE communication? 

When I test with Cisco 2960 series switches or with ISR routers, then if port receives an Ethernet frame larger than its MTU value seen in output, then device drops this frame and increases the counter. In my opinion this is an expected behavior. However, for example some Linux servers(different NIC vendors and thus different kernel modules) still process frames with larger MTU than seen in or output and send fragmented reply back. What is a correct behavior? What should a device do when it receives an Ethernet frame larger than its MTU? I would expect it to either silently drop this frame or behave like Cisco equipment which nicely counts giant frames. 

There is a GRE tunnel between the sites and I would like to ensure that this tunnel is up even in case the connection is congested. First measure is that LAN facing interfaces have CAR set to 9.5Mbps in both directions. However, I would like to ensure that GRE keepalive messages are handled as fast as possible once they reach the Fa0/0 interface Rx ring buffer. What are the methods to achieve this? I guess I should use some other Rx queue strategy than FIFO on Fa0/0 ports? 

Privilege level 15 in IOS has all the possible commands for particular IOS release enabled. However, for example privilege level 1 has only few dozens of commands available. Now if I want to allow some of the privilege level 15 commands also for privilege level 1, then I could use the command. For example . However, is there a way to do this centrally in TACACS+ server? 

When a router receives a padded 64 byte Ethernet II(aka DIX) frame and it needs to send this over an dot1q sub-interface, then router will add a new Ethernet II header, IEEE 802.1q field and recalculate the FCS. The question is, should router put a 64 byte frame onto wire or 68 byte frame? For example router receives an ICMP "echo request" message which has 6+6+2 byte DIX header, 20 byte IPv4 header, 8 byte ICMP header, padding of zeros for 14 bytes and then the 4 byte FCS. Now if the router will forward this frame over 802.1q sub-interface, which means that 4-byte 802.1q field is added, then should the router preserve all the padding and send 68 byte frame to wire or should it cut off 4-bytes of padding and send the 64 byte frame? A reference to RFC would be great. 

Is there a SNMP OID to detect network equipment vendor name? For Cisco and Juniper equipment I have used sysDescr.0(.1.3.6.1.2.1.1.1.0), which among other data includes the vendor name. However, this is usually a multi-line string with no fixed structure and needs to be parsed if used in scripts. Maybe there is a standard OID to query equipment vendor name? Or equipment OS(Junos, IOS XR, IOS, IOS XE, etc) family? 

Am I correct that "input rate" is simply an average value of (for pps) and (for bps) counters for period of time? Both and counters are seen in output. 

For example if I enable AAA() in IOS router with default configuration and try to log in over console line(cty), then there is no authentication. However, if I try to log in over telnet(vty), then I'm authenticated against local user database. Now if I specify TACACS+ server with and enable TACACS+ authentication with , then both cty and vty start using TACACS+ authentication. Now if I disable AAA(), then vty expects me to have at least line password while cty has no authentication by default. As this isn't already confusing enough, the enable mode over console line requires no authentication by default while in case of telnet is does. This all makes me wonder if there is a show command which displays authentication method for different lines? For example in case the AAA is enabled but no TACACS+ authentication is configured, it would show with that vty lines expect local user database authentication while at the same time would show that no authentication is required. However, I'm afraid that such command does not exist and one has to check the configuration and know the defaults by heart. 

What was the main reason in hub networks to cause such high amount of collisions that hub had to isolate the port from rest of the network? 

I have a Cisco ASR-9001 router running IOS-XR version 4.2.3 and its interface Gi0/0/0/5.1 has following applied in ingress direction: 

Now if traffic rate is below the average rate, then it is always conformed. Am I correct that "normal burst" determines how large the traffic bursts can be before exceed-action is applied? So in case of example above, if there has been constant traffic rate of 5Mbps(625000 bytes in the bucket), then I could send for one second 7.5Mbps(adds additional 312500 bytes to bucket) of traffic and not a single bit is dropped? And if bytes in bucket are between the normal burst and maximum burst, then bytes are dropped based on RED-like algorithm until all the new packets are dropped if maximum burst is also full? 

According to Cisco SNMP object navigator, (1.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1.19) counter is the value of on the most recent occasion at which any one or more of this interfaces counters suffered a discontinuity. How to cause this discontinuity? I have tried to disable router interface("shutdown" and "no shutdown" for five seconds), removing physical cable for five seconds from router port, but still the value of is zero: 

If I execute the command I receive the list of (32 bits count of packets treated as non-conforming by the policing feature) objects for all the interfaces: 

According to Cisco IOS documentation, command displays the subsystem information which doesn't tell much. Is it basically a feature list for particular IOS image similar to one in Cisco Feature Navigator? What is the practical usage of command? Few examples with can be seen below: 

It would be perfection itself if there is a "" counter, but looks like there is not. What options do I have? I guess one possibility is simply to ignore this highly unlikely situation where both (current reading of counter) and (current reading of counter) are smaller than previous readings because both counters wrapped within the same polling interval. However, just out of interest, what would be the options here? I guess at least one possible option is not to check if , but to check if delta between and is roughly equivalent to script check interval? I mean for example let's imagine a situation where variable was 42949500 and script knows that it got this value 300 seconds ago. Now the read by script is 128. As a next step script checks if +(42949672-) is around 300(for example within range 295 - 305) and if it is, then it is 100% sure that started from zero because of counter wrap and not because device reload. 42949672 used in this formula is the maximum value of SNMP counter if milliseconds are not included, i.e. maximum value of SNMP is 2^32, but last two digits represent milliseconds so for example 4294967296 is 42949672 seconds(about 497 days) and 96 milliseconds. Sorry for the long post and please let me know if anything is unclear. 

Is there a command to view maximum number of MAC address entries in CAM table in Catalyst series switches? I have usually found this information from release notes. 

As seen above, there are two "sections", i.e. (cbQosClassMapStats) and (cbQosPoliceStats). What is the difference between the two? Under which circumstances cbQosClassMapStats differs from cbQosPoliceStats? 

I have a following topology where Internet service providers for both sites provide 10Mbps connection: 

In addition, both Cisco and Juniper routers show the adjacent router IPv4/IPv6 address in / output. Am I correct that this IPv4/IPv6 address always belongs to the interface where the IS-IS PDU was sent out? Is this specified in some standard? Why is the interface IPv4/IPv6 address included to IS-IS Hello packet? 

If I poll over SNMP for example Cisco IOS interface counter and last reading is lower than previous reading, then I know that either the device has reloaded, counter has wrapped, there was an online hardware insertion/removal(OIR) which affected this particular interface or interface was deleted and recreated(this is possible in case of VLAN interface, Port-Channel interface, etc). Now I would like to distinguish between router reload and all those other possibilities for to start from zero. At first (range 0 - 2147483647 according to Cisco SNMP object navigator) seemed to be a perfect solution as this counter wraps after 68 years, but it also starts from zero if SNMP agent is restarted, i.e. stopped() and started(). This means that one still needs to check , which as far as I know, starts from zero only in case system is restarted, but unfortunately wraps after every 497 days. This means that simple algorithm seen below would not work if wraps between the same checks when becomes zero: 

Cisco IP phone 7960 has two RJ45 sockets at back panel. One of those ports has "10/100 SW" label above and other port has "10/100 PC" label. According to "Network Port 2 Device Type" under phone "Network Setup" menu it is a "Hub/Switch". If I view the MAC address table from switch where the phone is connected to, then I see following information: 

Is there a reason why this block is so huge? Are there occasions where any other addresses from 127.0.0.0/8 besides 127.0.0.1/8 are configured? 

..is only for traffic-class as it is the only one with configuration? 4) Am I correct that this 19.5Mbps() is shared between all the traffic classes specified in child service-policies? and in my case. 

Data sheets of optical transceivers often specify the receiver maximum input power. In addition, non-volatile memory of transceivers often seem to hold this data: 

I am aware that too strong Rx signal can saturate it for photodiode and as a result cause bit errors, but has anyone permanently damaged an optical transceiver(GBIC, SFP, XFP, SFP+) because of too strong Rx signal? 

000a.b42f.54bb is the MAC address of my PC and 0030.94c3.1597 is the MAC address of the phone. Am I correct that Cisco IP phone 7960 has a two port switch? Why is there a MAC address table entry for 0030.94c3.1597 in VLAN 105 when according to phone the operational VLAN ID is 909? 

I have a Cisco switch physically connected with ports and to Cisco ports and respectively. Ports have different LACP port-priority: 

After authentication I end up in privilege level 15. Now if execute commands like or , the router does not consult with TACACS+ server(I run a packet capture on TACACS+ server TCP port 49). What exactly the does? When does the command authorization happen? 

Am I correct that TCP (which is a for the sender) has nothing to do with TCP CUBIC congestion control? TCP is solely a property of TCP flow control? 

Latency between the firewall and destination in LAN is ~20ms so it should not be because flow timeouts. How does the TCP SYN checking work in SRX? Does it expect the TCP SYN+ACK use the same egress interface where the initial TCP SYN came in from? 

What is the PoE standard supported on Cisco WS-C3524-PWR-XL switch? Only the ILP? does not provide any useful information in that regard and under interfaces configuration it allows one to configure : 

I am aware that messages addressed to router are handled in process switching in case or routers running IOS. However, what about Cisco ASR9K routers running IOS-XR? Is the handling of messages exactly like in software-routers running IOS? 

Under which circumstances Cisco IOS interface SNMP counters(for example or ) start from zero? I am aware that does not affect SNMP counters. In addition, as far as I know, it is not possible to clear SNMP counters from CLI or with . However, reloading the router will. In addition, counter wrap(for example will get larger than 4294967295) will cause SNMP counters to start from zero. Are there any other circumstances where Cisco IOS interface SNMP counters can start from zero? 

Is it possible to get L2VPN xconnect state in IOS-XR routers over SNMP? It should have 7 possible states(Up, Down, Admin Down, Unresolved, Standby, Standby Ready, Partially Programmed): 

In Cisco IOS each interface has unique which is an integer >0(AFAIK usually starts from 1). If snmp-server ifindex persist is not used, then it is possible that are mapped differently than before. Under which circumstances SNMP in Cisco IOS might change? I know that reload is one possible reason. Are there any other reasons which might cause SNMP to change? 

Am I correct that if there is no configured for pair of Cisco Nexus 5k switches, then does not work regardless that CFS(Cisco Fabric Services) is enabled over management interfaces between this pair of switches? 

I have a Cisco WS-C412 Ethernet hub. Am I correct that internally all the Rx and Tx ports connect to a single wire/bus? Like here, where three NIC's are connected to first, fifth and ninth hub port: 

As I understand, Cisco IOS CAR(Committed Access Rate) is based on leaky bucket algorithm(idea is exactly the same as token bucket algorithm) and the amount of bits I configure as average rate, is the amount of "water constantly leaking the bucket". For example here the average input rate-limit rate is 5Mbps: