Normally, your IP address provider should configure the PTR record. Unless the PTR record has been delegated you won't be able to configure a PTR visible to external DNS checkers. If it is delegated, the address format will be different. You can check external DNS for your IP. It appears you do currently have a PTR record. You need only one MX server for all the domains. The fully qualified domain name of the MX should be what is returned by the PTR record. I would suggest you use a name like as your MX. It can have the same IP address as Using the same IP for ns1 and ns1 will eventually cause you issues. Do try to find someone to mirror your DNS. There are reliable free DNS mirrors. 

This can be done with NAT rules in iptables. If the MySQL server is on the same host, use a REDIRECT rules. Redirect all connections to port 3306 not to 10.7.7.3 to the required address. If the MySQL server is not on the same host the, use a DNAT rule. 

Define the macro MAIN_HARDCODE_PRIMARY_HOSTNAME and set it to the desired name. Typically this would be something like mail.example.com or smtp.example.com. If you are using split configuration, use a file in . Otherwise, use . The 550 error is being sent by the receiving server to indicate your HELO name is invalid. It should be set to the same value as the PTR record for your servers IP address. To set the PTR record you need a static IP address and the co-operation of your provider. You also need a corresponding A record for the name of your mail server. This will enable rDNS validation of the name. Your MX record should point to this name. Also look at setting up an SPF record for your mail server and your domain. Using your VPS provider's relay server may be a simpler solution. Use a configuration with local mail. Configure the relay server as the smarthost server. Modify your SPF record to indicate that the relay server can send mail for your domain. 

In this case, you should be able to use either or . It may be best put the client's address in and use a no-reply address for your domain in the header. If your web-server is not trusted by your email server, this may be required. If you were allowing the client to send a message, as some sites do, put the client's address in and use a no-reply address for your domain in the header. It is possible to use an address different from that in the header as the envelope sender. This should be listed in a header. However, I don't recommend it for this case. It is more applicable to personal business mail where someone is sending on behalf of someone else (and where the sender and from addresses are in the same domain). There are cases which can cause problems if you put the client's email address in the address. 

Check the reason it is untrusted. Modern browsers encourage use of Subject Alternate Name entries to identify the identities (DNS domains, IP addresses, etc.) that the certificate should be used for. If you aren't referencing the site with one of these, you may have trust issues. Some browsers require you to specify what you trust the certificate for. If you import the certificate and don't flag it as trusted for web sites, it will not be trusted for web sites. The simplest approach for a single site is to add an exception for that site. The dialog to do this should be on the pop-up that says it is untrusted. There are modern mechanism designed to prevent various security issues such as man-in-the-middle and certificates from an unauthorized authority. If they have had them enabled on the server, the current certificate may ve temporarily (up to a year) untrusted. 

For outgoing email try using a smarthost transport on the submission port (587). This should be allowed by your ISP. This can connect to a minimal server on the server with the dedicated IP address. Trying to tunnel traffic using NAT rules is unlikely to be capable of doing what you want. If you have a server with a dedicated IP, consider using it as your server. You can still forward the email back to your home server. There are a number of methods you can use including . 

You will need a virtual server for clientdomain.com on the dedicated hosting setup. Then the issue becomed transperently proxying the request from clientdomain.com to the dedicated server (by IP address). If clientdomain.com is not dedicated to the application, using a subdomain would be simpler. This also would need a host (virtual or otherwise) on the dedicated hosting setup. 

Take a look at Shorewall. The single interface default configuration would be a good starting point. It is easy to configure, and has macros for things like SSH and Web access. It can be configure to lock down the server to the desired level when the firewall is shutdown. With Shorewall-lite, you can run a firewall build on another server. Logging is easy to configure to the desired level. For a basic HTTP server you want open incoming access to port 80 and port 443 if you use HTTPS. SSH incoming access from a few restricted addresses is usually desired. You may want to lock down outgoing access as well. Open the firewall to required servers and services only. NTP and DNS should be opened, as well as a channel to fetch patches. 

Once you have it working you can make it stick over reboots by adding a file in containing a line like: 

Remove the from . This allows anyone to relay. If you are relaying for your local network put its IP-range(s) in . If you want to allow authenticated users to send mail from anywhere you need an accept rule for authenticated users. The default configuration should include the appropriate rules to bypass checks for authenticated users so that they can send email as if they were on the local network. If you add to your , you will be able to test authentication on an non-secure connection. It is best practice not to allow this as anyone who can sniff the network can obtain your credentials. You may want to add this macro to enable the submission port for remote users. The submission port is the preferred port for remote submission. 

This will permanently redirect all requests not matching the canonical name to the the canonical name. Include it in the virtualhost definition for your SSL (HTTPS site). The following rule set should force any non-HTTPS traffic to HTTPS. 

This is not an attack. You appear to be running an open proxy server. If you don't need a proxy server running, disable proxy access in your Apache configuration. 

Your web log will provide counts of bytes sent for every request. You may need to configure it to log the domain as well has the bytes send. The domain may not be in your default log format. Any number of log analysis tools will summarize the data. This will not capture the request size, but that tends to be a relatively small volume for most web applications. 

If you want only one to start remove the specification for the other. It indicates that the interface should be automatically started. If you are having problems with one interface, it may be helpful to start it manually until you have resolved the problem. You may also want to set a routing metric on the interface that should not be default route if both interfaces are active. You may want to check the output of after you try to start the interfaces. This should display any kernel messages generated and may make diagnosis easier. if is available can provide some good information about the interfaces. 

You are trying to create two default gateways on different addresses. If you only need to route to the vlan omit the gateway entry. If you need routes from the vlan to limited addresses use post-up commands to add the required routes for that interface. I generally try to have eth0 the interface with the default gateway. Other interfaces are used for communication on the network to which they are connected, and in limited cases have routing rules to networks attached through that subnet. There are techniques that can be used to route specific traffic via different interfaces. However, its not something I have had need to do and don't have experience with it. I have seen documentation on the Shorewall site. It is likely not what you want to do. 

The fast answer no "No". Keep-Alive headers are HTTP 1.0 syntax and are not included i the HTTP 1.1 definition. HTTP 1.1 defaults to persistent connections, and does not need a mechanism to request them. Please refer to the RFCs for questions like this. HTTP 1.1 us defined in RFCs 7230 thru 7237. The RFCs are available in a number of formats. From the old HTTP1.1 specification RFC2068 

Routers tend to give timeouts and echo response handling lower priority than packet forwarding. This allows the switch to operate more efficiently as forwarding is much simpler to process than generating a new ICMP responce. As a result busier switches will take longer to generate the response. Some switches may have ICMP generation disabled which makes diagnosing network issues with them diffficult. Other may occasionally get busy enough that they fail to respond. If you use a tool which displays the IP address of the routers along the way, you will usually see the switches which are slower are core switches in major cities. My preference is with running every 15 to 60 seconds.