but I want to get to the part before the mounting, if it is even possible to do this sort of thing. TL;DR: Have Arch Linux, want slack, must keep both; no cd, no usb or money; can chroot, pre-partitioned: GPT 

Use shellshock to send an echo to /etc/passwd (or sudoers(But, I don't know how difficult it would be to Remove a comment. I thought echo could only add)) to create a user with identifier 0. unlimited access root or not. How one would create such a carefully crafted command is beyond me. Alternatively, it could very well be possible to chroot into it from a live environment and edit sudoers from there. Not sure because yo said that even root couldn't get in. I don't know how catastrophic it would be to env x='() { :;}; rm /etc/passwd' bash -c "You've done it now" I also don't know if your distro provides the means to Very Similar to this. Solution could be there. 

Avoiding the problem is technically a solution. Make the server headless, ssh in on a different computer over 3 different monitors, use tmux to break those monitors into screens, boom, 9 windows at once. 

When making a root ssh connection, has to have the uncommented line probably isn't a good analogue for what is happening here as I have no experience with WAMP but it might help/ 

And then reboot the device and push all of the hardware buttons at once. This brings you to the recovery OS, where you can root your phone with the superuser application you copied earlier. Again, It isn't pretty and this guide will need some tweaking; especially for an undertaking such as this. 

Full disclosure: I am using a VPN to circumvent security measure set in place by my netadmin to torrent music. Recently, my dad installed the OpenDNS system in our home to prevent users from accessing inappropriate, illegal, and malicious websites. I purchased one year of access from Privateinternetaccess.com and got it installed on my pc and my phone. I had wanted to set up an ArchLinux machine I had lying around as a seedbox using this VPN, but after following the instructions at $URL$ I was still not able to bypass security, as I had on my android phone and windows PC. I had first considered it to be a problem with NetworkManager, so I tried connman, then when that failed, I used openvpn to connect manually. However, upon trying to do so, I noticed in the openvpn verbose log that my vpn client had failed to ascertain the IP address of the remote server, finding instead the openDNS "Blocked" page. Today, I tried a secondary workaround by pinging the target host from a computer with unfettered access, and modifying the openvpn configuration files to use the ip address rather than the proper name of the remote server. The log shows 

I'm not sure if this is exactly what you wanted, but you could try Jitouch. I think it is a fantastic app. Adds tons of extra gestures to your magic trackpad and mouse. I'm not sure if it allows you to use your finger to move the pointer though. $URL$ 

I need to run the "defaults" command from my code, but I can't just use "defaults write blah blah", instead I need the use the path for the defaults executable and then add the arguments later. However, I have been unable to locate the defaults executable. Where is it? Thanks. 

Most likely the update that will be applied if I merge would fix my original problem, but I can't apply it without changes locally. If I don't change locally, I can't update. Is there an elegant solution to this that won't break my entire workflow. 

Yes, if it comes with Windows 7, then install Windows 8, which will update your boot loader to allow you to access both partitions. Then install Ubuntu which will create a new boot loader with the ability to select Windows 8 or Earlier version of Windows (Or something close). I did this on my EEE pc and it worked fine (except XP instead of 7, but that should work fine). Now, a warning. NEVER, install ubuntu before Windows 8, if you install Windows 8 after Ubuntu it will change the boot loader and will only allow you to boot to Windows 7 and 8. You will have to reinstall the grub on Ubuntu in order to access it. 

A host adapter is required for a network card, but the host adapter controls many different port. It connects network AND storage devices. "In computer hardware, a host controller, host adapter, or host bus adapter (HBA) connects a host system (the computer) to other network and storage devices. The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI, Fibre Channel and eSATA devices, but devices for connecting to IDE, Ethernet, FireWire, USB and other systems may also be called host adapters. Recently, the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs, which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines. There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters (CNAs)." (Wikipedia) As you can see, a network card is what you said, but the host adapter, controls things like ethernet, firewire, iSCI, SATA, and other kinds of storage devices. You can think of it as the device that controls external ports and network devices. The network card (Or network adapter), simply allows you to connect to ethernet. Other devices are needed here as well, including the Host Controller Interface: "A host controller interface (HCI) is a register-level interface that enables a host controller for USB or FireWire hardware to communicate with a host controller driver in software. The driver software is typically provided with an operating system of a personal computer, but may also be implemented by application-specific devices such as a microcontroller." The HCI requires a Host Controller Driver, or HCD. This is because the software side of things require it. 

Searches the man pages for your serchword, regex support included. I can never remember how to spell ncmpcpp, so by 

Depending on whether your VM lets you bring the cursor out of the operating system, kind of like a laptop with an external monitor; you can just middle click in mintty.exe. Then again, there's a chance that I have no clue what I'm talking about since I don't vm. If that doesn't work, I would use some command-line accessible pastebin. 

paste2.org/0MOHzMKN Also, I have successfully booted into arch linux. I used a live cd to chroot in and Problem now? Gentoo and linux mint don't show up on the list. Edit 2: using the 1-2 punch of os-prober and grub-mkconfig from INSIDE arch, I have restored funtionality to Linux mint, and added gentoo onto the list. i now how a full grub menu, that boots into arch and mint, but not gentoo. EDIT 3: $URL$ 

iI used the help of the bootrepair scripts from yannubuntu. It did all of the configuration necessary to recognize the /boot partition from arch, but not gentoo. The problem is technically solved. I have reached a comfortable state. However, the question is not fully answered. To all those reading this, This will be accepted as an answer 72 hours after now. If anyone wants 15 free stack rep." " 

The other guy said to use php imagemagick, but from the linux commandline, the imagemagick conversion binary is called convert. If I have a 5 page pdf in Doc/pdf/test.pdf, and I need to make Doc/png/testpage1.png, the command is as follows: The leaves you with 

Also interesting is that when I try to connect directly with an ip address, with links for example, it acknowledges that google owns the connection, and then refuses to connect. The error appears I tried the solution from ping can't resolve hostname, but nslookup can but that didn't work, even though I'd recently configured avahi. Here's my resolv.conf 

The address of BLOCKED is the address of the target server us-east.privateinternetaccess.com = The next strategy I will try is to use L2TP/IPSEC using openswan, but i fear that it will go badly. I feel that no tool from linux may reach the target server, as when I was attempting to use the socks proxy provided by PIA to download the software itself, the proxy tool failed. TL;DR VPN can't connect to remote server through OpenDNS. What do? 

If you use homebrew (The Hidden Package Manager for OSX) then just in terminal.app and everything installed with homebrew (filezilla) is also upgraded. Silently, Quickly, automatically. Its also possible to schedule that command to happen at custom intervals with cron, but I have little success in that field. EDIT: $URL$ 

You're good. You did your job, and from what it sounds like, the problem was not easily reproducible. This is Dell's fault. They really should be responsible for replacing it, but my guess is that this guy's warranty was up. Like nerdwaller said, make sure things are documented, just in case of a law suit, but I doubt this guy will do that. He just wanted to get you to pay. Unless there is some reason you would have been responsible for breaking the device, there is nothing the customer can do. It sounds more like an issue with the customers wireless access point. dsolimano may be right there. That is why you can not reproduce the issue. You did fine. Cheers! 

Another choice here is Google Talk. A free, XMPP service that allows each device to have it's own phone number. You can talk right through the website if you use that. You may have to add a Microphone is necessary. Although, Scott's answer seems to give you more control and dependability. 

Something to keep in mind is you must be using a powered mic on many Macs. Unlike many Windows' PCs, you must have a mic that plugs into USB. Simply putting the mic jack inside the port will usually not work. Try finding a USB mic, or one that says it is powered. Good luck! 

If you want to make "Modern" apps. That is the tile-based applications that work only on Windows RT, you can just head over to $URL$ That should give you all the information you need. And yes, if you create a Modern App, it will work on Windows RT, and Pro. The best way to distribute this is to sell it on the Windows 8 store. Good luck. 

Okay. So I have a few executable .sh files that backup a directory. In this case, the Development directory. I have two computers. A Mac (Which is the main computer, and a Windows 7 desktop.) Since my Mac only has 500 GB of storage, I want to back up data to the other computer. I do this wirelessly. To accomplish this, I have a shell script which checks whether I am connected to main-pc/Users/Public/. I know that the location isn't secure, and I will change the location in a few days, but for now, I just want it to work. Overall the script works fine, it makes sure the location exists, if I am not connected I have it set up to mount the computer. It copies everything correctly as well. EXCEPT, if the internet suddenly loses connections, or my connection to the other computer is interrupted (Which happens every now and then). When this happens, the location suddenly doesn't exist, and it keeps running the script, but does nothing and just does things like x -> y Location does not exist... Blah blah blah. My question is, how can I make sure that if I were to lose connection, it simply just pauses the backup and waits till the location connects? Is this even possible? I can't just recreate the location, as I am not storing this locally. Thanks. (And I realize it would be easier to just get an external drive, but what is the fun in that?) My script is pretty long, but here is the section that concerns the backup. 

I run Arch-Linux on a Intel i3 processor w/ x64 architecture. I installed arch Linux and other than gdm failing and preventing me from booting, it went pretty smoothly. For the longest time, I used two Desktop environments: root ran KDE, and I used Xfce4. I had it configured to start x on log in for both of us. I recently had decided to switch to KDE, but when I did, my left click stopped working. Not immediately either. I was able to add Konsole and one application to my favorites before my device developed Lou Gherig's. I can move the cursor around with both devices, but my left click, and my right click have been disabled on both touchscreen and mouse. I would revert to the last functioning state, but to open konsole, I need to click the Icon. I can't summon it with because I need to click in the text bar; and brought it up, but I couldn't focus into it, nor drop in a cursor to do the command line revision. I can't ssh into it because WiFi is disabled by default. The next viable option is to boot into a live OS, chroot into it and run the commands, but it is an arduous, repetitive, and time consuming task; even if it works on the first attempt. I can't go by Ethernet, because there is no Ethernet in my house, and to get the IP address, I need to, in console, I have to type ip addr show; but I can't do that for the previously mentioned reason. 

I've heard that apache and nginx are huge undertakings, suitable for up to 10,000 concurrent connections. I don't need any of that, I can count the number of users on 1 hand. Is there a daemon which will serve 1 webpage to example.com:80 with minimal effort? 

As you can see in the lsblk, I have separate boot partitions in arch and gentoo on /dev/sda 3 and 5 respectively. but, even when all partitions are mounted, grub and os-prober do not detect /boot partitions for either, leaving both systems unbootable for obvious reasons. I am on a Linux mint setup so I have access to the debian and ubuntu repos. I use GPT partition layout, i;m okay losing my gentoo, I don't want to reinstall arch, and I have one usb lying around to boot from, and one sdcard that can be used for file storage that MUST NOT be overwritten. I tried using bootrepair in a livecd, but when I did, it made mint bootable, but crippled gentoo and arch. Both can be accessed by chroot, and I was able to connect to the box this morning by SSH. I havn't been able to connect by SSH recently, but that isn't my problem. BTW, no problems compiling from source, just let me know where to get the code, and dependencies so I don't have to waste more time. Ive done several kernel compiles, both with and without cheating, so no problems there if I need to. I know that I'm missing something trivial, that, in hindsight, will seem obvious.