Then go to the second tab (Advanced) then select "Manage Passwords", this will let you modify saved network passwords for the current user on that computer. 

If you have configured it for IMAP, you will have to specify which folders get synchronised, so its possible you have folders that are not visible.. HTTPS is the best for Outlook. If you are comfortable (have the bandwidth) to download your entire mailbox again, simply delete your profile (control panel -> mail -> profiles) and start outlook again, it will revert to virgin outlook, and you will have to configure it, however, when you get to the "Exchange Server Settings" part, type in the ACTUAL internal dns name of the server, select the cached mode again, enter your username and then press More Settings. 

Should return a list of all pages (with line numbers) that contain your domains email addresses. Might need tweaking. Manuals for wget and grep 

I'm just experimenting with it myself, but this is allows automated deployment of almost anything: $URL$ Edited for clarity 

the "sync" you are referring to, is called "roaming profiles". A simple script implementation is described below that may copy something and log it. Modify the following to your needs (very basic) 

How much work would it be to set it up again? How much effort/cost is involved in backing it up? If the work to set it up is going to cost less than the cost of backing it up, you have an answer. I just take a ghost image of ours once a quarter.. a few months of patches is small potatoes in the scheme of things.. but I also force it to use the proxy anyway, so in the event it does die, I can still load most of them locally through that.. (our proxy has a LARGE cache, 100GB) Cheers for reminding me, I'm adding a scheduled task so I don't forget next quarter and am backing it up now! 

We have an offsite hosted email server, which works (but is slow), and all our users connect to it to receive email. Internal users connect to my postfix server to send email, I want to leave that there and create a new email server that can act as a inbound relay (Not sure if that is the correct term) so that internal users can connect to it instead of the remote one: 

Which "previous question" would that be? I assume when you connect your 3G device, it automatically overrides your default gateway, which you can check by using the command line and typing: 

Wouldn't it be easier (and kinder) to simply setup a shared "Sales" mailbox, let all the required salesdroids use it. Its never going to be as fast as a simple redirection, but there is no need to script it or anything then. (We use many here, allows users to change roles, get promoted, quit etc without having to worry about redirecting or informing customers of new addresses etc). The other alternative (in Exchange) is a Public Folder, simply create & set permissions on it for all who will need access (using Outlook), then assign the email address[es] you require (in System Manager, will default to "Foldername@domainname.com"), then all mail will go there instead.. has similar/familiar delegation controls/permissions etc. If particular users need access to shared calendars or mailboxes, they can set them as "Favorites". That way, users can "Grab" messages for themselves, by moving them into their own mailbox, or deleting them when done etc.. Also, looks professional when you see: Joe Bloggs on Behalf of Sales@company.com. If its the public folder, turn of "Maintain Per user Read/unread information.." then staff can tell when a message has already been read by someone else. Customers like it, they get an easy to remember address and, their messages aren't lost! (that is the biggie I think) The managers like it, they can keep tabs on open items, weigh in on things and generally be "Managers".. ;-) 

In this case, is my LAN adapter. So, to allow my network to use that interface for LAN traffic, I would use the following add command: 

The "violation code" will literally be a random memory address, and will (should) change with every one you see, so google won't be able to help. You could install xdebug and trace it while google-api'ing. When next the error appears, hopefully your output will instead be a huge stack-trace detailing exactly which module is faulting and where. $URL$ 

You'll need to prepend the /opt/subversion version in the shell's path to have the environment prefer the new version. The software's README states: 

Those sort of symptoms are usually caused by an functional boot loader, but it can't find the kernel. I'll assume you've also tried to boot the ESX Recovery GRUB option and found it didn't work. Given you've just rebuilt the array, I'd be concerned that the rebuild was destructive and hosed your box. If it was rebuilt to replace a dead disk, it's unlikely, but certainly not out of the realm of possibility for a RAID card with bugs or another form of hardware stupidity. If it was rebuilt to change RAID levels, it's almost certain the array is hosed. Try creating an ESXi USB stick and boot from that; you may be able to convince it to read your storage to see what's left on disk. If your VM's and VMFS datastores are intact, you could use ESXi to run them until your next maintenance window, or reinstall ESX to restore full functionality (being very careful to not destroy your datastores). Good luck. 

Addition for clarity: From a business perspective, clients want make sure they can always get in touch with someone to help them, yet have access to specific staff members for client/account management or higher level support/sales when appropriate. To achieve this goal, my recommendation is to use both both techniques; staff should have personalised/named accounts, and be members of a alias or mailing/distribution list for their department, role or branch -- whatever delineation makes sense. What address is given out or used then becomes a business decision of expected follow up / personal contact / historical knowledge required, staff turnover and how "general" client requests are (example, password resets can be performed by any helpdesk staff member) For front line customer-facing roles, departments with high turnover or where requests can be completed by any staff member, clients can be provided the alias (support@, sales@, reception@) for that department, guaranteeing someone from that department will receive their mail and be able to look after them. When a staff member leaves or changes role, it then becomes a matter of changing the alias or mailing list subscription. For roles where a high level of personal contact, historical knowledge, or where the work can only be performed by specific staff members, contact can be made using the named account. I'd recommend the client should be provided with an alias address as well so they are not left out in the cold when a staff member leaves the company or is on leave. 

You haven't explicitly mentioned which product, so I'm going to assume the tag of "vmware-server" is accurate. I'm also assuming you are running your old server as a VM on top of your new server install. The feature you're looking for is known Raw Device Mapping (Server 1, ESX, ESXi) or SCSI Passthrough in Server 2. RDM's work great in ESX/ESXi; anecdotal evidence on SCSI passthrough in Server is mixed. The procedure, according to the documentation for Server 2 (page 157): 

In both cases, you're in a similar risk position should VMware or your VM eat the filesystem during a failure; one is not drastically better than the other although what recovery options will be available will be quite different. I don't deploy RDM's unless I have to; I've found they don't buy me much flexibility as a VMDK (and I've been bitten by bugs that made them impractical when performing other storage operations (since fixed - see RDM section in that link)) 

The documentation on QEMU is not really clear; using the "-smp <num of cores>" option allows you to emulate more than one CPU, but it is not clear if this is real smp across multiple host cores, or effectively "threads" bound to a single core. VMware products do spread the load across multiple cores, but be careful about scheduling issues with busy guests which will impact overall performance. More info here. 

The main reason for role addresses is people change jobs. It's much easier to change a mail server alias so reception@ or sales@ points to the new staff member or a team's mailing list than to contact every client that has ever received that address and request they change their address books.