At our organization we use a series of shared Outlook calendars to schedule out our conference rooms. All domain users are setup as authors of these calenders. We are now running into a problem where the end user is either not checking/caring if a room already has an appointment assigned to the room for the period of time that they want to use it. So my question is this: Is there any way to prevent a user from scheduling an appointment or meeting on one of these calendars when there is already a preexisting one on it? We've already tried going into Options -> Resource Scheduling and checking "Automatically decline conflicting meeting requests," but this did not resolve the issue. 

From what I understand, it also depends on the file system on the drive. Some file systems are more resilient to things like disk fragmentation. 

We are in the planning stages of deploying a SharePoint server that will be used for our organization's intranet. As part of the deployment, we are going to be centralizing all of the internal documents. As you can imagine, there is no standardization of the filenames for the internal documents that have already been created. What I would like to do is setup some form of standardization between the filenames now and those going forward to keep the intranet organized and uniform. What I am looking for is any resources or wisdom on how others have organized documents for their networks and on any best practices on general naming conventions that are/have been used. I realize that every deployment will be different, but I'm just looking for a general direction to be pointed in to get started. 

I am working with an Enterprise level Access database. This database contains some basic data entry fields and buttons such as "Find," "Submit," "Clear," etc. We are, at the same time, updating our user's Microsoft Office Suites to the 2007 version. What we are now finding is that these form buttons are disappearing from the Access forms when using Access 2007. The strange this is that the buttons are still there function-wise and will appear after you click them. Has anyone encountered this or have any ideas on how to fix it? Edit The file the user is working on is an .ade. As far as I can tell the original database/forms were created in Access 2003. 

I have been working on a project to map out my organization's network infrastructure. For the networking devices (we are a Cisco shop) I have been running the command to see how everything is connected and through which interface. I am noticing that our ASA is not showing up in the output of these commands (it is connected to a Cisco switch). I ran a command list via and CDP does not show up as an option. My question is this: is there a command similar to that will show to which devices the ASA is connected? 

As it turns out, the problems with the display had to do with some outdated custom plugins that were designed for the Access implementation. 

It may not have to do with the SSIDs at all. You may want to take a look at the wireless controller itself. At one place I worked we ran two wireless networks from the same controller, one for guests and a secured one for users. What we found was that there would be random losses of connections or, at times, one of the networks would disappear. Eventually, we gave each network its own dedicated controller and the issues were resolved. Granted, this may not be the optimal solution, but it may be something you would want to look into. 

I'm in the process of setting up a MOSS 2007 (with IIS7 and Server 2008) intranet and am looking to find a way to prevent people from having to log in when they want to view the site. Ideally, I would like SharePoint to draw from the user's Active Directory account without having to enable guest access. Can anyone tell me how to do this or have any good resources that describe how to get this done? Just for the record--I have tried searching Google for the answers but apparently I'm not using the right terms to find what I need. 

I find that a lot of the mailing lists at seclists.org have a lot of good information on security news, software vulnerabilities, and general security questions. **EDIT:**You may also want to check out this .opml file. It's a list of blogs and RSS feeds that Paul Asadoorian of PaulDotCom fame subscribes to. There quite a few feeds in there ranging on all sorts of topics from hacking to information security. 

I imagine that since actual server name and apparent email domain are different, sending mail is somehow considered open relay and actual message goes to void. Anyway, does anyone have an idea, how to fix discrepancies with name or how to fix SMTP server name? TNX! 

Further comments: The larger company is planning to implement seconnd solution internally for accountants and other "office" PCs. The infrastructure isn't there yet, but people with experience in this area will work on it. The smaller company would then also have about a third of its computers virtualized and put up on terminal server. 

I have a user in a domain who has access to multiple subfolders in multiple folders. His rights were defined pretty granularly. Now he's leaving the company but will continue to work for a firm as a contracted resource. I need to find all folders he had access to and revoke his permissions, then set him up with a different set of access permissions. Is there any tool (freeware, preferably) that lists all NTFS permissions for a given user? I've tried with AccessEnum from Sysinternals, but the list cannot be filtered by username and is useless for me. I've looked at CACLS, too, but as far as I can tell it displays permissions ordered by file, not by user. Any ideas? 

For details, read the Whitepaper: Configuring Outlook Profiles by Using a PRF File -> link I created a very simple logon script, almost too simple, actually. I could have checked whether the profile already exists and skip the procedure altogether, but sometimes quick and dirty works just as fine: 

we used to have Exchange on the SBS 2003 server inside our AD environment. Earlier this year we moved to outside Exchange provider but for the time being our local Exchange was still up&running and forwarding email to the new email accounts. Now the time has come to turn it off and I'm not quite sure what that means for SBS environment and how to proceed. Specifically, there is a local e-mail account associated with every user in the domain. Can I simply change the e-mail address of every user to their outside address, or should I first delete the Exchange account for every user + their Mailbox, and only then update the e-mail address? What do you suggest? How do I proceed? TNX! 

I would your suggestions for an effective solution for a person, who needs to access resources in two Windows domains and wants to use one computer. It's about our CEO, who has accepted a second position in another company. Accessing files and folders isn't big problem. The greatest challenge I see is that he wants to conveniently access Exchange accounts in both companies; he would like to send and receive mail in single Outlook if possible (two profiles?) There is also a challenge with calendars: he would like to have one calendar for all activities from both Exchange accounts. Creating a POP3 account for accessing second Exchange server is a last resort, because obviously there is a problem with scheduling meetings and other calendar related tasks. Forwarding and receiving all mail/tasks on primary Exchange server is inconvenient because simple replying to original sender is disabled; and also when manually changing the recepient, he will receive mail from the wrong address. We were considering Virtualisation, that is setting up an instance of virtual machine inside existing installation and then joining this virtual computer to a second domain. Then installing another MS Outlook. This would of course mean two different Outlook accounts, two different calendars, but would at least enable our CEO to access all information from a single laptop. Does anyone have any other idea? I know setting up two domains on a single computer is a no-go (without much hacking at least), but effective workarounds are appreciate. The thing I am looking here is high usage/efficiency/productivity, but also as elegant solution from the administration point of view. Thank you very much (if you managed to read this through, this is a good sign ^_^ ) 

SITUATION: A larger company acquires a smaller one. IT infrastructure has to be merged. There are no immediate plans to change the current size or role of the smaller company - the offices and production remain. It has a Win 2003 SBS domain server, Win 2000 file server, linux server for SVN and internal Wikipedia, 2 or 3 production machines, LTO backup solution. The servers are approx. 5 years old. Cisco network equippment (switches, wireless, ASA). Mail solution is a hosted Exchange. There are approx. 35 desktops and laptops in the company. IT infrastructure unification: There are 2 IT merging proposals. 1.) Replacing old servers, installing Win Server 2008 domain controller, and setting up either subdomain or domain trust to a larger company. File server and other servers remain local and synchronization should be set up to a centralized location in larger company. Similary with the backup - it remains local and if needed it should be replicated to a centralized location. Licensing is managed by smaller company. 2.) All servers are moved to a centralized location in larger company. As many desktop machines as possible are replaced by thin clients. The actual machines are virtualized and hosted by Terminal server at the same central location. Citrix solutions will be used. Only router and site-2-site VPN connection remain at the smaller company. Backup internet line to insure near 100% availability is needed. Licensing is mainly managed by larger company. Only specialized software for PCs that will not be virtualized is managed by smaller company. I'd like to ask you to discuss both solutions a bit. In your opinion, which is better from the operational point of view? Which is more reliable, cheaper in the long run? Easier to manage from the system administrator's point of view? Easier on the budget and easier to maintain from IT department's point of view? Does anybody have any experience with the second option and how does it perform in production environment? Pros and cons of both? Your input will be of great significance to me. Thank you very much!