Are you sure you don't want command history editing? Or maybe command substitution? Command history In bash, press the up-arrow key to recall the previous command. You can edit the line in the usual way. Alternatively you can refer to previous commands, and to parts of previous commands using the exclamation-mark notation. Using the output of one command as parameters for another command 

When a TCP connection is established, there is a so-called "three-way handshake" at the start, this consists of packets containing no data, just the TCP headers with the "Ack" bit set and various sequence numbers to satisfy both ends that everything is OK. After that, it is usual for the receiver to periodically acknowledge data being received. Often this is done by setting the Ack bit on a convenient outgoing chunk of data. If the communication is mostly one way I expect the receiver will have to occasionally send an empty packet to acknowledge receipt of data received so far. A large block of data is usually split into many small packets to traverse networks with low maximum transmission units (MTUs). I don't have the details to hand but I suspect the transmitting end may become anxious if it sends many many packets and doesn't ever receive an ack, even if the receiver has nothing else to say. So acknowledgemet packets not containing data are not necessarily a cause for concern. 

It is better to choose a name that reflects the purpose and content of the server. Choosing "vpn" as a name will not affect security (See "security through obscurity"). 

A good way to provide access to a service on another computer is to use port-forwarding on your router. You'll have to use a different port number (e.g. 81) for the HTTP service if you already have port 80 forwarded to your Mac mini. Otherwise you'd have to run some kind of transparent proxy server on the Mac mini. Getting dyndns to delegate a subdomain to DNS service on your Mac mini wouldn't help. It would have to resolve to your external IP-address anyway, the same one as all the other computers on your LAN - This is what Network Address Translation (NAT) in your router does. You'd normally only have multiple IP_addresses available if you have arranged for multiple fixed IP-addresses with your ISP. What you could do is arrange for the Mac Mini to issue a Redirect HTTP response for the other domain so that requests to $URL$ on port 80 get redirected to $URL$ You'd have to arrange for dyndns to point mybittorrent.mydomain.dyndns.org at your dynamic IP-address. I don't know if dyndns provide this sort of service. I'd start by forwarding port 81 to the Windows server. 

Wikipedia's comparison of SQL tools has a column for SQLite. It doesn't specify version but it might make a useful shortlist to check. A 2007 blog article mentions SQLite (unspecified version but presumably 2007 vintage) and SQuirreL and JDBC. 

A PDF file doesn't have an inherent resolution, each raster-image within it (if any) will have it's own resolution. I don't know of a simple way to extract a single number for median/modal resolution of embedded image XObjects. 

I expect the utility is available for Windows as part of CygWin I'm surprised it isn't included in UnxUtils or GNU CoreUtils for Windows As Ignacio Vazquez-Abrams suggests, for many files, software tools can only make a guess based on sampling and probabilites. 

You can do this in vim using - you could also use sed, awk, perl etc to edit the search string file just as easily. Note that the first in the search-expression part of the (substitute) command is a meta-character meaning "start of line". The second is in the replacement-string part where it means the literal character . If I didn't want to edit my file of strings to be found, I'd do something like 

Update: Stricly speaking, you should use impedance matching and attenuation in between headphone-out and microphone input. This can be done with attenuating leads, DI boxes etc For example, the description of this product says 

Those of us who have used computers for a long time occasionally forget how peculiar they are and how bizarre the language that has grown up around computers. When people say "press the Ctrl + up key" they mean 

You can use to print out a terminfo entry for current TERM. I'm not sure of an equivalent for termcap but termcap is readable plain text (if you know it's capability codes). I guess you could make use of in conjunction with 

This assumes the files are all in one directory. If the files are in subdirectories one-level deep, change to If the files are in multiple nested directories of varying depths, or otherwise in multiple locations, you should use the command as described in other answers. 

That should suffice. There is a theory that you need to do this multiple times because of variations in tracking, however the threat countered by this seems largely theoretical. You may find it easier to use a drill or a very large hammer. 

There is no way of using HTTP to download a whole website if some portion of it is non-static such as that produced by server-side scripts or programs. Normally you would need an administrative user account and would typically use a different protocol such as FTP to transfer the site. In addition you would need some means of extracting the contents of any databases used. 

It is unusual for a service to require two ports, most manage bidirectional communication with a single port. FTP is the only common exception. 

The program may have left registry data under a key that isn't obvious. You can use Process Monitor to track what registry keys the program reads at startup. 

Update: "Smart restore" is a Packard Bell program. If you have a Packard Bell computer you can run Smart Restore from > > > . I believe that it can also be invoked by pressing F11 soon after the computer is turned on. It seems likely that "Smart Restore" depends on software installed in a special system-recovery partition of the hard disk. Apparently, one of the things you can do is create a recovery CD or DVD. You should do this when you first get the computer, before you have problems. When you run smart restore, it may be possible to overwrite the system-recovery partition on the hard disk. Perhaps this is what has happened. If you do this, further restores are probably only possible if you have previously created a recovery CD or DVD. I have read that you can purchase from Packard Bell a recovery DVD for a specific Packard Bell model, I would start at the support section of their website. 

You could use an extra or an alternative CSS stylesheet that suppresses certain HTML elements (display="none") before using Acrobat X Pro to convert to PDF?. 

Generally, some electronic devices on PCBs operated outside the designed casing can end up running hotter. This probably isn't an issue for short periods of use. 

vim has a pretty large undo and redo buffer - You can undo any number of changes (I'm unsure what the limit is) and redo them. Does that do what you want? Update: Persistent undo is like a local version control system that you don't have to manage. To set it up simply put this in your .vimrc: 

There's an excellent article at the Wireshark Wiki which covers these and more (switch + monitoring port, man-in-the-middle …). 

Here's some quotes from $URL$ "VLAN trunking allows a single network adapter to behave as “n” number of virtual network adapters, where ”n” has a theoretical upper limit of 4096 but is typically limited to 1000 VLAN network segments." "Routers can become infinitely more useful once they are trunked in to the enterprise switch infrastructure. Once trunked, they become omnipresent and can provide routing services to any subnet in any corner of the enterprise network." So you still need a router but, with VLAN trunking, it can be a one-armed router (router on a stick). High end switches include routing capabilities, so you may not need a separate router because your high-end switch is also a layer 3 router. 

Line editing you can use emacs-style editing commands to move quickly through the line. I prefer vi mode which means I can use b and w to move back and forwards a word at a time and use f to move the cursor to the next occurrence of a specific character . 

In general, it is the operating system, not the application, that decides which network adapter to use, based on target IP-addresses. If you can arrange that the different adapters are on different subnets, you can set up static routes for the IP-addresses of the websites. I guess most PCs have their IP-addresses allocated by the local router. These can be configured so that a multi-homed PC gets different subnets for different interfaces. 

Select the text that you want to hide in your document. Choose Insert - Section. In the Hide area, select Hide, and then enter an expression in the Condition box. For example, using the variable you previously defined, enter Hide==1. Click Insert. 

Am I wrong in thinking that the latest Oracle JVM will run Java 1.1 bytecode? Have you tried this? What errors did you get? Does the app or libraries rely on MS extensions? A Microsoft forum suggests some workarounds. 

If that is insufficient, there is sticky residue in places you can't reach with a q-tip / cotton bud and you are exceptionally brave, you could try this - But only if you are ready to buy a new keyboard. 

If you have read access to a file, you can always make a copy of it. If you can make a personal copy, you can always mark that copy executable. This doesn't explain the bahaviour of ld-linux but does indicate that it may not be a very useful security loophole. If you want tighter security, consider SELinux