My assumption is that you were looking at something like Cricket or Cacti. Both of those (like MRTG) can look at the SNMP counters and record graphs of usage. Very awesome and powerful stuff. I have added links to a couple VMApps that have Cacti bundled in. NOTE I have not used either of these VMapps but one is recommended by www.petri.co.il, always a good site. 

We have had our Nagios installation up for a year, and we are now required to give some statistics on how much it has worked and what it has done in the environment. As such, I was wondering if anyone knows if Nagios also holds data records on how many alerts and notifications it sends out? I am not necessarily looking for reports on what it alerted on, but just some raw statistics for a powerpoint. TL:DR Can I extract how many notifications and alerts Nagios has produced in it's existence or between certain dates? 

I am trying to create a template in ESX that I can automate with PowerCLI. Everything works great so far, but because I have some specific settings, I had to create my own sysprep.inf. Now, the computername and the VM guest name are out of synch. I need to automate this for a sandbox enviornment, so I will constantly be deleting and rebuilding boxes. Thus, I need the VMhost name and the computername to be the same. Am I missing something? 

Splunk!!!! Splunk!!! Splunk!!!! I use it for a mix of Networking devices, Linux, Solaris, Windows. The only issue is to keep under the free level, you need to be very specific what logs you want to keep, but I found as long as I was diligent in cutting down on chatter, and really only logging the info I needed, I had no problem. $URL$ 

I am curious to see what other third party tools people are using to administer Windows AD. My own research has found Quest and NetIQ seem to be front runners. Any others? Any experience or Pro/Con list of why NetIQ or Quest makes good/bad tools? I am specifically looking for tools to manage users and create reports for things like SOX/PCI and various inane management requests ("Can you tell me all the phone numbers for users with the letter Z in their name") 

If you have the GPO, I would just write a batch file that has something like If you don't have a GPO, look at PStools (specifically PSexec). Copy the hostnames discovered with angryIP into a hostfile and then use psexec to run the command with the hostname file as the array it would look something like this psexec @hostfile "echo 192.168.0.2 hostname > %systemroot%\system32\drivers\etc\hosts" 

My network Admin asked me if I had heard of any opensource competitor to Ciscoworks and Solarwinds for Network Administration/Management. We have a full implementation of Cacti and Nagios for monitoring, but I haven't really delved much into the realm of Cisco/Checkpoint/HP procurve management. Anyone use anything that fits the bill? 

Possibly look at having the cronjob output an error code to a log, ahve nagios look at the log. If the cronjob reports an error, than boom. Or, a little easier but less precise, have the last line of your cronjob script write to a log file. Have nagios check for the modification date of the log file. If it goes more than 25 hours, kick off an alret. 

Get the Serial number for the server, find the manual online and see what the beeping could indicate. Look to see if there is a LED panel. Usually beepings are with LED alerts. Or any Hard Drives have Lights. 

Ok, So I have been doing more research and I think that the Microsoft tool SQLIO is going to be what will give the most info for my needs. I am going to start this tonight and let everyone know how it goes as far as usefulness. I found a fairly good tutorial online tha tI am going to follow. If anyone else has any ideas, please let me know! 

I am not sure about the CPU monitoring, but you should also look at getting environmental monitoring in whatever space you are putting this server. It will allow you to have a better idea of what is going on in the space, and have more checks other than just CPU temp $URL$ 

I will preface this, with the truth that I know little about Macs :-) I am trying to workout a way to block application installations (or executions) on Macs. We have a subset of executive users (meaning they "need" root on the box) who have Macs. However, the are installing applications like Skpe, that break our Corporate Policies. Does anyone know of a software to manage this? Preferably Open Source. 

I've been using the Striving Life website for his IIS FTP LogParser 2.2 queries. My only issue is that I can't seem to combine the two queries that bring back both successful login AND their account name. Can anyone help? 

All, we are working creating a shared secret library in Sharepoint. basically the idea being, a user fills out a "Shared Secret" infopath form (AKA "What is your highschool mascot") and then that form is sent to a secure library that only the helpdesk can read. Currently it looks like our sharepoint admin doesn't know how to create a secured library. Has anyone done anything similar in sharepoint? Or does anyone know of some good tutorials for creating something like this? 

Agree with everything above. The only thing I would make sure to look at is checking to see if you somehow enabled SSL on the check (that will cause havoc) or visa versa, if you are requiring SSL that it is enabled. And as previously mentioned, review the local config (nsclient.ini or nrpe.cfg) and find out what port you are trying to connect to. Then run a telnet from a remote machine and see if you are able to get to it. 

If you can use a startup script in a GPO this is easy If not, then if you are not too skillful with scripting, I would do a laymans approach. First use a tool like angryIP to get a listing of all of the windows desktops you want to modify the tool with 

We are currently having some issues transferring large files (100-800 GB) from one Windows 2003 server to another. They are all virtualized and on SAN partitions so we are trying to narrow down the gap between Networking, ESX, or SAN. Preliminary testing does not indicate Network performance, so we are moving on to testing write/read speeds of the SAN partitions by the OS. My question is this: 

This could be a multitude of failed things. Memory, CPU bank, PSU, Hard Driveor FAN. My guess is on the PSU or fan. The options are these: 

Also, if you need more flexibility, think of putting a bash script in between nagios and you. This can let you send out messages with greater flexibility, for example you don't want recovery emails sent to your automated ticket creator. 

After saying all this, and realizing that IceMage said most of this as well... know that if the server is still working, it probably is just in a degraded state. Open a ticket or Email your server support team so it is documented, then personally talk to the Server Admin. 

That entry corresponds with my ssh-key-based login event. SSH is listening to default port - 22. What is the role of logged port 51150 and does it mean I cannot use restrictive iptables settings that blocks all traffic incoming to ports other than ones that I have previously specified (like 20,21,25,80,443,143...) 

Since replaying to received email and sending a new one are the same things in tech terms (only difference are some SMTP headers in sent email) there is only one option left, as far as I see it: low reputation at Microsoft email infrastructure. Microsoft is probably not trusting your emails and makes difference between "new" and response email (which contains important header with ID of mail sent from their side) This lack of trust would be nothing new or unusual - in order to send email to them you have to establish positive reputation, which is long-term job. I suggest you to register your server's IP address to Smart Network Data Services and observe data. 

We know how to reject executables and other potentially dangerous file extensions via mime_header_checks directive: 

It is not problem at all if you send mail from main server / 11.11.11.111 that is not signed with DKIM , unless you have DMARC policy defined. All that is going to happen is emails not being signed with DKIM, which is not such big deal if SPF set correctly, which is not the case in your given example. SPF is almost completely useless if "hard fail" is not designated ( at the end of SPF TXT record entry). Hard fail tells receiving MTA's around the world that only designated hosts/ip are allowed to send emails for domain and no others (thus, hard fail - reject policy). In order to establish and maintain proper SPF, try to utilize online generators (example: SPF Wizard) , and of course, monitor results - send to tools that will confirm whether record is ok or not. 

may alter your file. It does mean that anyone on the system may do it - and this is potentially a lot of third parties. Let's say you have one hacked Wordpress website, just one among the many others, which runs on apache or designated system user - this site may be used to iterate system in order to find any accessible (readable, writable, executable) file - and guess who is on board? So, stick to general recommendation to provide only minimum rights to the part of your system (whatever it may be) needed to work. permission is rarely used besides non-private non-secret type of files. 

As far as I know, has on his own (I think Perl Mail::SpamAssassin). Before installing , I was using binary and daemon ( and ) plugged into MTA (Postfix via pipe). My question is: what to do - is it safe to now after installation and configuring of ? OS is Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. 

Basically yes. The point that tools like and are not there to provide you with 100% detection rate and malware protection. Even enterprise-class antivirus solutions is likely to fail that - but, from my experience (some of them) are much better than those two. and are here to get you rid of whole bunch of malware - and, believe me, that is a lot of them. The second part of your question is regarding missing of some very well-known malware. Unfortunately, it happens. This is subject of discussion. To me it is shocking that these two fails to detect b374k Shell. But again, it happens and proves that, even if detection rate were 99.9% one should not plan security strategy by relying on quality of antimalware scanner. 

I solved this problem not before utilizing and observing real-time traffic. Turns out that several sites - several apache's was having long lasting, self-initialized http requests to some scripts. That scripts was some Wordpress security plugin cron scripts - they were doing site scanning and they had some nasty bug that was preventing scanning termination and successful exit (this info is founded later). I cut those off and problem was immediately gone. 

EDIT (12.12.2017) This is a component of some email security software, not sure what kind exactly, and does not operate by (or, at least not solely by) local settings. So, this software has some kind of centralized black list and contacting administrator of other email server, although may solve specific case by manual whitelisting IP address is not good enough option. Now, the question is, how to get out of this list? 

(Beware, , is critically important since it tells Postfix not to accept messages with recipients at domains that are not hosted locally. Without this line, your server would be an open relay.) 

How do you set up automatic email forwarding based on conditions like: forward if from emailaccount@domain.tld forward if from domain is domain.tld forward if subject contains word 'Urgent' and so. I'm only able to forward (redirect) all emails from one mailbox to certain email address. 

SPF and DKIM must not be seen as panacea for email deliverability problems. Period. Depending on many factors (vendor, software & others...), they may increase chances for good outcome, or decrease chances of messages being bounced at SMTP handshake level, provide sender integrity or cause email servers to bounce spammers pretending to come from your domain name, and that's it. It is also important to know that there are senders with long-established good reputation that don't use this two techniques at all (although not using SPF is really weird in 2017). I'd say your problem is well-known - Why Does hotmail still reject my emails? . With the details you have provided, I'd suspect that content of messages does have some significance to antispam software they are using - maybe try to alter content and see the results. 

After changing an IP address of email server (Postfix stack) I've found host that denies email message with: 

Needless to say, you shouldn't hope for positive answer from any blacklist vendor unless you made sure that all standard conditions they may request from you are fulfilled: 

Since no one answered: Clearswift Secure Email Gateway is an email security software and they are in charge of their internal blacklist and the 'world outside' does not know on basis of what criteria this blacklist is established and maintained. So, if you got new IP address which gets rejected with error message posted above you have option to contact and ask them to remove your IP address from their blacklist. 

(obviously, we are speaking of publicly reachable server). Am I on the right trail - could rooted server be recognized by this approach and how? 

In order to diagnose why emails are not being sent, in your situation (full control over the system), it is especially important to distinguish whether this is at application or system/email level. You gave us very little details about your issue. Consider: 

This configuration should limit 4 emails per 2 minutes, thus 120 per hour - but I'm not sure if it works. 

You may use Monit. This program regularly checks (on adjustable time interval - 2mins, 5mins...) number of vital system parameters, and is I think even on by default. When parameter () goes out of the adjustable threshold default is to send to you notification email. If this is favourable, you may login via ssh and do and other standard tools in order to gain quick and rough insight about what is happening. Second option would be to configure Monit's custom script execution instead of (or together with) sending of notification email. This custom script may do simple and you would have good starting point to investigate high load averages.