The 403 error indicates that the url got munged, but otherwise it passed through or I would have gotten a 400 error. For some reason in the script, the "&" get redirected because they're interpreted in the script. If you were me, how would you run this command dynamically pass this URL so it's not interpreted by CMD, bash, etc? thanx, sam 

Since it appears VB can only assign one hard drive to a machine how would I clone the contents into this new space? Or how could I reformat the first clone and then move over the original files into the new space? thx, sam 

Attempting sudo pg_ctlcluster 9.1 main stop yields: Cluster is not running. As an experiment, I changed the port number in the conf file from 5432 to 5433 to see if it would start. The result is the same error output in that another postmaster may be using port 5433. So perhaps the pi is closing all the ports? I'm unsure what to try next to understand. Clearly, postgres is seeing another 5432 running on startup that can't be found by me yet. Where should I look next? thanx, sam 

On my Windows 8.1 host I have a Ubuntu 14 guest and I've run out of logical disk space. Hunting on the web I've followed this guide: $URL$ My virtual disk space is doubled but the fixed size, the logical space is full leaving me with lots of space that I cannot use. Some posts suggest that it will be resized when some applications run that need the space, but I need to get some files from dropbox and repeated attempts abort the download. Plus I cannot get any other work done. Ubuntu reports in df that the free space is unchanged. OK, surely I can create a new "Hard disk" in VB and clone the original "drive" into it. Apparently not, here's the result: 

Click Server Manager (NameOfServer) in the left pane of the Server Manager MMC, then click "Change System Properties" on the far-right. In the dialog box that comes up, click the "Change" button next to where it says "to rename this computer or change its domain..." 

I have two of the exact same 2TB external HDDs. I copied a bunch of information to one of them and then copied everything from the first to the second HDD and now their sitting at different amounts of free space. The copy job completed without error and there are no obvious large hidden files lying around. First question is: how can this happen? I used robocopy so I know I brought over all hidden files and everything Second question is: is there anything I can use to make sure both HDDs have exactly the same information on them? 

I have a HP Mini that runs Splashtop OS as an instant-on OS and Windows 7 as the main OS. I've updated Splashtop through Windows 7 before, so I know it runs on an EEPROM or some other sort of flash storage. Anyone know how to put Chromium OS on there instead of Splashtop OS? 

I have a new hard drive, put Windows 7 on it and want to get all the files off of my old hard drive. I put in my old hard drive as a slave drive. I can see the files but when I try to move 'em, it tells me that I'm not the owner of the file. I try to take ownership of the file and it doesn't work (it doesn't tell me that I can't take ownership of it, it goes through, just gives me the same error when I try and open the file again). I've tried modding the permissions, no dice. Anything else I can try? 

I have a new MBP with Yosemite. I have installed the latest version of MySQL (5.6.21 via the pkg file) and have successfully set up its password and see it through Sequel Pro. However, I cannot login to mysqladmin. Normally, like with Ubuntu, I can do: 

when I started my working sinatra app on my Raspberry pi rev 1 machine running wheezy with the latest apt-get upgrade a few weeks ago I find that my postgresql 9.1 server is no longer running. Hunting in my logs I find this: could not bind IPv4 socket: Cannot assign requested address 2015-08-17 08:32:17 CDT HINT: Is another postmaster already running on port 5432? If not, wait a few seconds and retry. 2015-08-17 08:32:17 CDT LOG: could not bind IPv6 socket: Hunting the Googles I can report this: lsof -i 5432:TCP => null result. Which would indicate that I have no other process running on port 5432? I've run top and can find nothing that looks like postgresql. There is no pid file in /var/run/postgresql This is my postgresql.conf file for this cluster. I've yanked out the commented lines in file locations and connections: 

This should have worked, but the only way it would run is skip the evaluation of the heroku command and just copied pasted the url output AND ONLY if I enclosed the URL in single quotes. curl -o latest.dump '$URL$ The reason it works in OS X is because the output is very long and it doesn't get munged. But it does get munged in cygwin because I'm using the heroku.bat command to get the output. That imposes Windows constraints – that is to say, it adds a carriage return, etc to the very long line which breaks the URL. The other clue is that curl returns a 400 error which indicates a munged URL. The fix is to pipe the output to dos2unix program and curl responds as it should have. curl -o latest.dump and happiness reigns. 

Try inserting a one-celled table inside that cell and insert the picture in that table, so you have a picture inside the new one-celled table. 

Is it possible to download (preferably: one-way sync, so also delete) a network folder, for instance to a local folder like if available, otherwise leave it the same. I want to listen to my music on my laptop, which is stored on the NAS, while I'm at home. But when I'm not home, I still want the most recent music library with me. Is there any way of achieving this in Windows 8.1? The NAS (server, rather) is running Ubuntu Server 12.04, but I'm guessing that doesn't matter.. Thanks in advance! 

to connect to my server. But I also want to be able to connect to the server when I'm not at home, so I've set up a VPN server where I can manually connect to. Now I'd like to be able to connect to the server without having to check if the VPN is enabled and whether or not I need to use the VPN. Can I make it so that when I try to connect to my server, it connects to the VPN if I'm not on LAN, otherwise it just connects over LAN without the VPN? EDIT For future reference, here's my final solution: 

But when I finish this setup and I go back to Windows (even after reboot), the settings remain the same. Even in Windows Explorer: 

The active partition is the partition which the system will use to boot from. In your case, you've changed it so that the required bootmgr could not be loaded. You need to set the partition named 'Reserved by system' to active. This partition usually has no letter assigned to it. You can set this with a bootable live USB running a partitioning program. Below I've placed a link which describes how to make such a live USB running easeUS: $URL$ After you do this, everything should work again. 

This should be easy but it's escaping me. I've researched on the web and it confirms that if I surround a Windows path in quotes it takes care of spaces. But not with VirtualBox. What am I overlooking? 

=> Syntax error: Invalid parameter 'VMs'\'Ubuntu'" Ok, time for brute force. You know when you use tab to complete folder names? I changed directories down to sam and when I attempted to tab the name of "VirtualBox" it spat back the .virtualbox directory name which is not what I need. I attempted to quote the VirtualBox VMs in CMD and it could not find that folder name. That's probably a clue but I'm unsure how to search for a solution to that. What am I overlooking? thanx, sam 

But the output bails because at the first '&' as you might expect. The echo of shows the full string with quotes. How can I append, or force, to encapsulate this string with quotes? I have attempted but it returns the same type of error: 

asks for a password expected BUT when I pass it then yields unknown command 'password'. I did do the /usr/local/bin/mysql_secure_installation script but didn't change any values. If my root password has changed why would I still be able to connect via sequel pro and other PHP connections? I'm sure it's something I'm overlooking but appreciate is there's something I've not found in my Google searches, thanx, sam 

Some may ask why not do this in Unix, or CYGWIN? I did that first. The command works perfectly on my OS X personal machine. So it should work in CYGWIN? Well I get the same type of errors. I've attempted incorporating a Perl script using the library and inserted it. But the URL it passes is not recognized by curl. Forcing the output within single quotes munges the URL in that it starts correct but the closing single quote is placed within the last few characters of the URL which renders it useless to curl. The output of in the CMD console is: 

If your virus scan doesn't pick it up as a virus, it doesn't mean it isn't dangerous. If you're wondering what the program can do, try searching the program name () on Google. This page says it's not a harmful program and can be deleted through the software add/remove option in the Control Panel: $URL$ This page also refers to it as safe, although it's only found on one computer. They also refer to the same distributor: $URL$ I would say it's an outdated piece of software. If you can find the software in the Control Panel option under 'Logo Business Solutions company' and you do not use it, I'd suggest you remove it. If you're unsure if you can remove it, try renaming the file under or moving it to another location. If your software and computer keep working fine, you can remove the program from your computer. 

When I do not create a keyboard event (i.e. pressing or releasing a key) for more than 5 seconds, the numlock and other LEDs on my keyboard go off. When I'm holding a key for more than 5 seconds and the keyboard 'shuts down', I also hear the device disconnected sound in Windows 8.1. I've never had this until I got this new keyboard, a "microsoft wired keyboard 200". My USB mouse still seems to work properly even when the keyboard shuts down. It's really annoying because I can't hold any key (including Shift or Backspace) for more than a few seconds and I constantly see the LEDs flashing. When I press or release a button, the keyboard will go on instantly again, but when it's done by releasing a key, the "release event" will not be sent to the PC, causing the key to be "stuck" while it actually isn't pressed. This is solved by pressing it again. Does anyone know a solution for this problem? 

Has anyone had any success in completely filtering the airflow in their computer? If so, what materials did you use? My room is extremely dusty, and my computer sits on the floor. I'm having to dust it once a week to keep it fairly clean. I want to put some foam or paper filter material that's easy to clean/replace to keep the dust down. I saw some fine mesh filters on Amazon but I want something smaller than that to trap more dust; maybe something like a paper car air filter or a polyurethane foam air conditioning filter. If there's a product that I can try, post a link for me If you've done it yourself, let me know what materials you used, how you affixed it to your case, how easy it is to clean, and where I can get the things 

I have an HP Mini 110 with Splashtop OS as an 'instant on' OS. I've updated to the newest version which has a Chromium browser...and not too much else You know what would be really cool? The newest Chromium/Chrome OS build on there instead Can someone in the know tel me if this is even possible? (just to be clear, I don't want to put Chrome OS on my hard drive or boot to a USB drive. I want Chrome OS installed in the same place that Splashtop is installed.) 

We're pulling a bunch of things (GBs) off of our network storage and archiving it onto external HDDs. Copies are made of each external HDD so that one can go off-site and one can stay here. Is there a way to mirror the two drives (RAID 1?) and copy the data to both at the same time? 

Try to unplug all your USB devices, repeating the steps you took to create the sound. Now one by one plug them back in and keep checking if that device caused the problem. Another way might be to take a look at the 'safely remove hardware' menu via the tray icon before and after the sound. 

I'm trying to get a custom boot logo to work, but I have to place it on the HP_Tools partition. I cannot see this partition, neither from Windows' partition manager and from EaseUS Partition Master. How do I get my custom boot logo to work? I already know the requirements for the image: 

It's some kind of glitch in the syncing process (maybe something got corrupted?). I'm not sure but some people have been able to fix it by toggling the 'sync automatically' button and sync their iDevice. Possibly repeat once or twice. If that doesn't work, try duplicating the file or importing it again to iTunes (copy it from iTunes Media if it's there). Another issue might be that the file of the song is corrupted. Try to identify the file and see if you can play it with any other music player. If not, delete it from there and download, rip or buy the song again. 

I'd say that it depends on the computer. Bluray readers are not directly connected to the video output on a computer. The bluray acts as a storage device, storing an encoded video. Since the stored, encoded video will not change, the computer is likely to decode the video to the same pixels each time you play a bluray. So you would expect the output to be the exact same every single time you do so. But depending on the current workload the computer has to deal with, it may or may not keep up with de decoding process. The video output might experience stuttering or screentearing. Sometimes ever artifacts when a GPU has been overclocked too much or some hardware is failing. Some video's are encoded with an algorithm that makes it possible to define a decode 'quality'. This means the software will choose a quality based on usersettings and the amount of work the CPU or GPU can handle. HDMI often supports an audio output, and audio is very likely to put through some equalizing and possibly some other filters. This is done with all kinds of algorithms. Even though you might expect the exact same binary signal, it could appear otherwise. I think it's very unlikely to measure the same signal twice, but I'm not saying it's impossible..