For PHP 5.1 the json extension is available via pecl. No need to upgrade PHP just for this (although now both PHP 5.1 and 5.2 are end of line) You need both php-devel and php-pear installed: 

The most secure way of doing it I would say is to have a group called git-readers add git and www-data to it, then have the following folder structure: 

Alternatively, if .htaccess files are enabled, get them to simply output their php error logs to a location they want, e.g.: /path/to/webroot/.htaccess: 

Your own redirects were most likely recursively redirecting to the index.php. You need to block the rule for that script, so it isn't run on that page request, e.g.: 

2 . You need to first see what existing installed packages need replacing, you can do this by using yum shell to combine removing php-common and installing php54w-common in one transaction (so shared dependencies aren't removed) 

I went thru the same path recently where one of the top executives of my company wanted a home PC(not domain managed) to connect to office remotely and use his TWO computers(which has 3 monitors). Server side: We use Juniper's WebVPN and setup a user role to map the office PC to a local loopback address using secure applications manager. 

Netgroups is very scalable but comes with a huge mgmt overhead. Maintaining hosts, group of hosts, user netgroups(separate from ldpa groups) seems like a very big burden, but is doable. ldap.conf (go to the post by jmozdzen on 1st July) and LDAp based access control. We could template the ldap.conf for each host and create a group with hostname and members as users. But the downside is you cannot specify ldap group(team of users) for access but only individually. sshd_config restriction. But that doesn't work if the users log in natively. Host attribute check. By un-commenting pam_check_host_attr in ldap.conf and add the hostname to each user works well, but automation is not easy. 

If you are able to get more than one IP address added to the virtualhost, then you can use two SSL virtualhosts, with each using one of two SSL certificates. The virtualhosts would each need to identify which IP address they should be using e.g. in Apache Httpd: 

Whichever you do, it will reset to the original permissions if you upgrade httpd. It shouldn't change otherwise. Also, the reason why apache can write to the logs with the default permissions is because the log files are opened by apache whilst it runs as root. As soon as apache is fully loaded, it will change its user to apache, but will continue to have open log files. 

I would change the permissions on the /var/log/httpd directory to solve the problem of accessing the files from the console. add a new group and add the user to it: 

(the port number is the office extension and was available). Similarly for other PCs and users. Remote user side: The user working from home will log on to WebVPN and start the Java Application. Once started, he/she can open mstsc.exe /span (/multimon for windows 7) and connect to 127.0.10.11:8891. Windows XP users might have issue with spanning across multiple monitors, when you maximize a window it will stretch across all monitors. In that case, use SplitView. Recommendation: WebVPN is much better than RRAS or client-based solution. You can setup many applications to stream thru VPN without needing to install it locally. Manage Home PC over Internet:(If you have a situation like me) In order to manage the remote home PC over internet, we used a NetSupport with Gateway enabled feature. Configure Netsupport gateway on the DMZ server(preferably windows) and edit firewall rules to allow traffic over internet. On home PC setup the http communication to the public IP or DNS address. Then you can connect NetSuport console to the remote gateway and just connect to the PC over internet. It communicates over HTTPS. We looked at MS Intune for this, but it doesn't allow unattended RDP which we needed as the executive might just walk-in and say, please fix my home PC. :/ 

Perhaps this is because the Webtatic 5 package was built earlier than 6. I could add to the build process something that would update the timestamp, however there was never any plan to have Webtatic 5 support CentOS 6, so you may get other unexpected results if you try to use it on that version. A workaround for now would be to force Yum to spot the file has changed: 

This should be put above any conflicting RewriteCond/Rule's, so they wont interfere with the redirection. Any .htaccess files in subdirectories will by default remove this rule and not do the redirect. To fix them, you must add either the rule again to them, or set them to inherit from parent .htaccess files, e.g.: 

There is no APC extension for PHP 5.5, you should switch to Zend Opcache instead. I'm submitting a Webtatic answer as I'm the maintainer of it, and I dislike the lack of package pinning of Remi repository older RPMs, and the SCL new rpms. The former's way would have made this issue clearer as well. As you have the Webtatic repo already installed, you can run: 

This is every SysAdmin's nightmare of things to do. Basically we want to control who has access to which hosts. As simple it may sound, the problem is to find a scalable and low maintenance(mgmt. overhead) solution. We use bcfg2 for Config Mgmt much like Cfengine & puppet. Some ways: 

To visualize and administer LDAP, there are many options, here are some. I personally use ldapsh to perform some quick ldap edits. It visualizes your ldap tree as directory structure which is easy to navigate and make edits using vim or your fav editor. 

Thanks for the great responses. Since I will end up using the existing insfrastructure, I am going to answer my own question. :) I am not sure if this is a valid method but I gave points for all possible solutions. In short: I will be using SCCM for deploying Windows OS and packages. MDT for managing and testing images. When a client PXE boots, it will have two options: Install Windows/Install RHEL. After the authentication, the OS installation is automated. SCCM is used for post deployment operations and for linux I am going to test puppet/bcfg2. Thanks again. 

We are resource limited here, and want our qa and staging environments on one machine. We are going to run separate binaries and confs for our app & supporting services. According to chef docs it is possible to have a single machine be two nodes. It just never explains how. Much appreciated! 

We have > 20 individual apps that we support. Most do not see changes more than a couple times a year. We think chef will help us down the line. I am trying to find a happy medium between manual configuration and automation. I have two pretty good questions: 1) Is it smarter to setup one chef server with cookbooks and roles for each of our apps? Or should we isolate each project, and have a chef-server for each app? 2) (If we have multiple chef servers out there) How should I manage multiple chef-servers? With another chef server? chef-solo? I see many articles documenting how to setup chef, or covering features, but I haven't seen a really good one documenting how somebody is actually using chef in a medium-large, production environment. Some tips in that direction could be nice. Thanks! 

Over the past several days I have been trying to get the shadow to work with samba but haven’t been successful. Can someone check below config and let me know if I am missing something? We are using Equallogic SAN and iSCSI LUNS to mount volumes. I can cleanly access samba shares on Windows 7 clients but just not shadow copy. I have referred the official how-to but couldn’t get it to work. I see these messages in the logs. Any help is deeply appreciated. 

We are using SCCM to deploy Office 2010 and it has worked very well. Most of the customization is done using the 'setup.exe /admin'. We divide desktops, laptops and servers to different collections(similar to OU in AD) and then further division based on tiers of deployment like IT, Accounts, sales, Executives. If anyone is looking for Windows 7 deployment, then SCCM 2007/2012 is way to go. It has a little learning curve as some of things just don't work out of box and need to be worked over-and-over again. But the end result is worth the effort. I used this link as reference for packaging Office 2010 for SCCM. 

It will be the first VirtualHost that matches which will be loaded, and since the files are loaded in alphabetical order, you can change the ordering by changing the filenames. What I do is put a number prefix for each filename so I can set the priority in order to do something like what you mention. e.g.: 

As Electrawn mentions, the libmcrypt package is now in the Webtatic repo, it was depending on the EPEL repository, but not everyone has this installed. As for the php54w-mysql installing MySQL 5.5 issue, this was resolved 6th May: $URL$ 

If there are other packages than php* in this list then you can't seamlessly switch to Webtatic PHP 5.4, but will have to investigate alternatives. Webtatic has replacement packages for all base php packages (see the packages listed on the page linked to in 1. for confirmation), so there should be no issues, unless you use other 3rd party repositories that have packages installed dependent on the specific php version installed. For the rest of the installation (still in yum shell), you just remove these packages and install their php54w-* counterparts: