These instructions suffice for modification on any level of sophistication. The keyboard description file is just structured text, after all. 

Perhaps you have some key redefining going on in your MPlayer settings? Move away and try again. Here's a work-around that aids you in debugging. Save your current working X keyboard layout to a file: Restore it any time: 

The font size in that application is eyestrainingly small for me to work with. How do I set it to a size of my choice? 

in . When that configuration item is either removed, or the full path to the sudo binary is supplied, application styles and font settings work in YaST2, too. 

Press Shift+g to show the address of the current document, Shift+e to show the address of the selected link. You can copy the text with your mouse (or the keyboard, if your terminal supports that). Press a to save the address of a document or link to a (Netscape-alike) bookmark file, by default . You can open this in a different browser, it's just HTML. 

This looks like a non-standard notation for regular expressions, frequently abbreviated as regex or regexp. This is a tremendously important tool to learn if you do any serious text processing. As you have already understood, regex allow for powerful pattern matching and substitution. The notation you provided resembles the standard greatly, so I could recognise it. There is an industry standard, POSIX, and a de-facto standard, Perl regex. The next paragraph is boring history, skip it if you want. POSIX regex are used in many user-facing tools from POSIX-compliant operating systems (think Linux and its not-so-distant relatives). The canonical example is , which allows you to search for text in files. The text to match is specified in regex. Perl, a programming language, took the concept and extended it greatly for its purposes. Later a subset of this functionality was made it available as a code library, PCRE. All sorts of software embed this library, most notably text editors. I can see a few differences to what I am used to in the notation above. Word's symbol for symbol for escape sequences is , normally it is . »Only digits« is used often, so it has an abbreviation in Perl, namely is equivalent to the character class ; similarly, means word characters and is equivalent to . Word's notation appears cumbersome against it. I do not know the other limitations of Word, so I encourage you to switch to a text editor with PCRE support. You should learn first about whitespace matching (abbreviation ) and repetition ( and ). Perl's regex are explained in perlrequick, perlretut and perlre. To start experimenting right now, use the Flash based RegExr. 

Your case front panel likely has a standard 20-pin plug, with cables to two front panel USB 3 receptacles. To interface it with the on-board 10-pin USB2 header, you would need an adapter like this one: $URL$ The adapter connects only USB2.0 wires, and leaves USB3 set of wires unconnected. When a USB3.0 device is plugged in, it won't find expected termination on loose wires, and falls back into USB2.0 mode. ADDENDUM1: If you would like full USB 3.0 functionality from your front panel, there are 4-port PCIe controllers, two ports on back, and 20-pin header internally, where you can plug your front panel directly. $URL$ 

There is a family of USB devices, use keyword "Wireless USB hub" for search. In early days of wireless USB fad, there were dedicated USB plug-in dongles as transceivers, and wireless hub at a distance, all over a proprietary RF link. They were unreliable and slow. Nowadays the wireless USB hubs are made with connection over standard WiFi network. Belkin and ioGear make this kind of hubs. These are universal USB hubs, so you can attach any USB device you want. 

If USB keyboard works under BIOS, it means that USB host controller hardware is fully functional. If the system proceeds to boot into OS and the USB does not work anymore, it means that the OS is corrupted and failed to proceed with loading USB driver. Maybe a 10-20 hours of Microsoft Professional work will help to restore your system, but the most practical way is to re-install the whole Windows thing from DVD media. 

In Kate, I can highlight a block of text, invoke the ad-hoc filter functionality with a key binding and then enter an arbitrary command into the dialog box. (Most of the time, it's a variation of or or .) The block is fed into the command's stdin, and when the command is done, its stdout text replaces the block. How do you do that in Kdevelop? There is no text filter menu entry or key binding. 

Your use case is strange enough that no one bothered to build an interface or configuration to accomodate you. However, you can macgyver something by setting up three different global key shortcuts to the following program: 

shows the remote addresses, but also the tty names. For my situation, this is preferable over netstat/ss because I can match the sessions much more quickly with the process list. 

I want to use a combination that avoids alphabetic/punctuation characters because that way I have a consistent physical position on different layouts. Control_R+Menu fits that requirement and is also located at a very convenient position. This combination used to work in KDE 3.5 for the global switch action, or any keyboard action for that matter. In KDE 4, trying to assign by pressing the Menu key always activates the keyboard trap widget's context menu, in this case giving me the What's this? context help. How do I work around that problem? Alternatively, do you have a snippet that I can paste into and which works? 

x11vnc is a different solution, instead of launching single applications over the tunnel, you remote attach to the remote existing desktop session and control it with the local input devices. Install on the remote computer, and enable . From the local computer, create a SSH tunnel: 

However, the adapter of your selection doesn't need any Display Port, nor any Tunderbolt functionality - it is a plain USB 3.0 to VGA converter. You don't need DP support to run your adapter and VGA monitor. But I would strongly advise you to throw away your old VGA screen, and just buy a normal modern LED monitor 22" or 27". Some are under $100 these days. And you won't need any adapter for this. You will save money and waste less power. And preserve your vision. 

This is a Microsoft Windows 10 issue. You may want to follow this thread, What is the meaning of 'device could not be migrated' in device manager? 

You are looking for something called "wireless USB hub", something like "IOGEAR Wireless USB Solution (GUWH104Kit)". It was a fad couple of years ago. Latency will be still an issue. 

I believe the picture shows a general RS-232 full-size DB25 COM port, and not a parallel port. Technically the stack-up should work with a special USB/PS/2 compatible mouse, which operates in LS USB mode (1.5Mbit/s). However, the picture shows a USB stick, which can operate only at FS rates (12Mbits/s) and above. This "setup" will not work because the setup can operate only at 1.5Mbit/s USB 1.0 rate, while the FS USB device needs serious processing of data signals at 12 Mbit/s, and needs a carefully scheduled special service from PC host, which cannot be provided by COM port. So the simple answer is: the COM port PS/2 to USB converter cannot provide the necessary communication speed nor proper USB protocol for a FS/HS memory stick. Specifically it "stops working" between the stick and green USB-PS/2 adapter. ADDENDUM1: one fundamental evidence that this setup is a joke is that neither EPP or COM ports have any 5V power, which is necessary to power the USB stick. ADDENDUM2: yes, this is the PC parallel port, per description of DELL 2550 sever, and thanks to "plugwash". The PP is worse, since PP does not have any UART serdes conversion hardware, and bit-banging of the port from x86 PC is clearly out of range for 12Mbps receiver processing (which needs 20ns sampling/reading rate). 

Use KRDC. You can switch on the fly at runtime between interpreting e.g. AltTab for the local or remote desktop. The switch can be triggered via a menu item, a toolbar icon or a (perhaps global) key shortcut. 

Activate View → Panels → Places F9. Drag the icon from anywhere (URL bar, main viewport, folder structure) onto the Places panel. 

Any KDE application has the capability of loading and using a different icon than the built-in one on application start. Use the option. See the option for further customisations. 

Run and increase Focus stealing prevention level. For obstinate programs, run and create a rule that puts new windows from that app in the background or starts minimised. This rules interface is also available from the context menu of each window's menu bar. 

In Yast software manager, switch to the patterns panel and simply install the patterns KDE4 Desktop Environment and KDE4 Base System. If you want to upgrade to the latest stable version, add the repositories at $URL$ In Yast software manager pick the repository filter to the just added names, then switch system packages to the versions in each repository. This function is not yet available in the ncurses version of Yast, so get a graphical environment running first with the first-party base repository. 

I am also not (yet) interested in tag cleaning, mass renaming or categorisation software only; I first have do the afore-mentioned normalisation step. 

Run System Settings, search for MIME Types, find the types in the tree you want to be able to open with emacs. For each type, press the button and select the emacs daemon. See the emacs wiki for the specific command-line incantation and the context-sensitive help for the meaning of the various placeholders. Finally press to change the settings. From then on, will appear in the context menu of files. When you select this, the emacs daemon will be passed the name/location of the file, in turn emacs will open and load the file. 

There are hubs which provide Type-C ports. But they are expensive to make, and therefore are non-competitive. The reasons are as follows: 

Based on submitted information, all it means that your host USB system is crippled, and initial negotiations into USB3 mode fail. So the devices fell back into USB 2.0 mode. The fact that it happens on two different controllers points to some software (or BIOS hardware configuration) issue. To rule out post-configuration hardware issues, try to boot your system from an external DVD-Rom drive into something like latest Knoppix, or any other recent CD-bootable Linux, and see if your USB 3.0 functionality is there. If not, you might need to downgrade your UEFI/BIOS to the original manufacturer's state, and check the USB 3.0 functionality again. Your mainboard uses a 5-years-old old Z77 chipset, so it is possible that the newest software update, while is the latest and greatest, but not for older chipsets, so some workarounds (aka "filter drivers") between Microsoft and Intel have expired. 

First, "VID" stands for "Vendor ID". It is formally illegal to use someone else vendor ID for your product, unless you have some permission to do so. If your are designing a USB product, your company should apply for unique VID at USB-IF.ORG Second, the host choice of driver software is defined by the class of device, not by VID or PID. The "PID" stands for "Product ID". It is built-in by device maker to differentiate between different USB products. Therefore it would be extremely unwise for a manufacturer to use the same PID for different devices with different functional classes. 

Run (also available somewhere from the menu in the System Settings application) and select a style to customise. QtCurve has many settings related to shadows. 

The styles from need to be overridden. Because the GTK-tards changed yet once again how the system works for no good reason, many previous solutions to the problem stopped working. The CSS class is now , was previously . and were apparently removed, use / on the widget element instead. 

The solutions from How do I change the width of scrollbars in Gnome? unfortunately only work on applications from ca. 2009. 

However in Firefox, scrollbars are different. Note the lack of buttons at the end of each bar and being too slim: 

Install package . Teaching you how to fish: Font Support for Unicode Block Kannada lists fonts that have decent coverage. GNU Unifont is packaged as . Last Resort and Unicode BMP Fallback SIL are bogus. The other two mentioned there are available as downloads from the Web and require manual installation. Unpack the font files from the archive, if any. In a file manager, bring up the context menu for a font file and select → . The files should now show up under the URI in Konqueror and a copy in the file system under the hidden directory . Restart any application in which you intend to intend to use a new font. 

Loss of pointer focus and window decoration are clear symptoms for a crash. Unlike other KDE applications, you will not get the crash manager. If you still have the term window open, you can attempt to revive it by copying/pasting the characters k, w, i, n and a newline with the mouse. When it crashes again, you will see the reason in the terminal.