This would be manufacturer depended as it not really standards based, but we do see it implemented, namely in Cisco IOS. Understanding and Configuring the ip unnumbered Command The ip unnumbered configuration command allows you to enable IP processing on a serial interface without assigning it an explicit IP address. The ip unnumbered interface can "borrow" the IP address of another interface already configured on the router, which conserves network and address space. 

I know, for example Dell's Force10 Redundant Ring Protocol (FRRP) "can converge within 150ms to 1500ms". Cisco REP (4500 Series Switch Release 12.2(44)SG and later) is advertised to offer these convergence times: 

The difference between an ACL and a firewall is keyword stateful. A firewall keeps a state table whereas a basic ACL simply filters based on layer 3/4 properties. In a router, firewall functionality has been called Context based acccess control, CBAC. There are also reflexive ACL's. We now have NGFW's with deepest packet inspection (application aware firewalls). Static Entries 

You certainly can load balance at layer 3 with simple static routes. You'll want to configure on each interface. Be sure to enable Cisco Express Forwarding, CEF. 

The sessions are not timing out. If you can get in type then , or whatever the session number(s) are. You should be able to configure up to 15 concurrent I think. I know it's atleast 5 (line vty 0 - 4). 

In traditional networking, there are stateful firewalls and next-generation firewalls. NGFWs perform deeper inspection compared to stateful firewalls. Either of these types of firewalls can be implemented in an SDN fashion. The difference with SDN is that the firewall processing is done at the virtual NIC, whereas in traditional networking the firewall processing is done at the physical NIC(s) of the firewall(s). If you think about virtual machines, and a feature such as VMWare's VMotion in an SDN solution, not only would the virtual machine move but the virtual firewall on the vNIC would follow it (as you move it). 

You have no interfaces on your router? They should show up in the show run or write term output. In any case, you need to enable a routing protocol or code in static routes. It is a routing issue. I do not see RIP configured in your output. Configure RIPv2 if you would like. Documentation is online. ADDED---- Try adding no auto-summarize redistribute connected $URL$ 

The VLAN is configured already on all ports by default - VLAN1. Simply assign an IP address and subnet mask to interface VLAN1. Configure the ip default gateway so that you can remotely manage the switch via telnet, for example. Telnet must be configured finally for the remote access to work. 

LLDP is the tool for discovering/visibility into switches on your LAN(s). BTW, if you don't have access to any of them via console, issue LLDP commands from your router, try and web into your default gateway, or load an LLDP client on your laptop. Something like $URL$ Hirschmann Reference Manual 

Sounds like a firmware issue. See Release Notes for Cisco Unified Communications Manager and IM and Presence Service, Release 10.5(1) 

Think of Morse Code. The signal is the sound, pulse, or light. The message is encoded using the "dits" and "dahs", for example. 

The SRTP session is between the endpoints. The gateway is unseen/transparent. In SIP lingo, there is a Session Border Controller, SBC. A security device that injects itself between endpoints is often called a proxy. 

An SDN controller will utilize the openflow protocol to communicate with networking devices, whether they are physical or virtual. Openflow is not a routing protocol. 

Ideally there is a single DHCP server located on a unique subnet. You simply add an (in Cisco IOS lingo) to each subnet's gateway interface so that DHCP broadcast requests get unicast forwarded to the centralized DHCP server (or cluster of servers). In other words you should not need to deploy a single DHCP server for each subnet. Most network admins prefer to manage all DHCP scopes from a single box, it just makes things more tidy/easy. 

You're back to one network port per wired IP phone and/or wired endpoint. Other endpoints in a typical campus includes IP video cameras, badge readers, and other PoE capable devices. There is still a place for wired ports because of power delivery. Otherwise, you could get rid of the access switches alltogether. Idea1 - Preferred Use single number reach which allows you to publish a campus owned DID(phone number) that will auto matically ring their personal cell, while preserving campus voicemail (vm as an email attachment). Idea2 For the majority of users, a soft client (downloadable on a tablet or smartphone as an app) on their personal smart phone. So, you still utilize an IP-based PBX but you limit the number of hardphones to fewer users. Like I said though, PoE is more than just IP phones... 

brings up a login prompt. Anyone know the credentials? My issue is I am trying to use the REST API which first requires you to authenticate for a token. cURL works fine but I would prefer to use a browser and our friends at Cisco failed to set the CORS header ‘’. I was hoping to get at the NGINX within the service container (VM) running on IOS-XE and set that... BTW, disabling CORS on the browser for dev/testing does not work, and the fetch api ain't fully baked (with ) yet either. Setting up a host file (so I can spoof the ip address to be a URL on the same origin/domain) don't work either. 

Specifies the timer time in minutes. Valid values range from 1 to 65535 minutes. Defaults By default, the DNS expire-entry-timer value is 1 minute. If none of that works, look at EEM to maybe clear your DNS cache automatically, or something like that to force an update. 

Wrong password. Also you can try tweaking the connection settings (port number, etc.). Otherwise, contact your network administrator. 

One of my branch sites far out of town experiences primary link failure from time to time which is very disruptive. All they have in terms of connectivity is a T1 for data and PRI for voice. Would it be possible for me to configure a backup link for data (not voice) traffic using my Callmanager's PRI? 

The 802 Committe in the IEEE is not referring to switches, or bridges, or routers. They are talking bits, not frames or packets. Think hub or repeater. Frames are not relevant at this physical layer. 

Install a second Ethernet NIC card on the machine that has wired network access. This NIC card can be setup with services such as DHCP server and default gateway with PAT to enable other devices behind it wired network access. 

Access Lists specify particular traffic. Policy-Based Routing is a feature for overriding the routing table / forwarding mechanism for all traffic matching an access list. A couple of key points: 

You are going to need to put a VPN gateway at each TV since todays SmartTV's do not have VPN client functionality (as far as I know). You can roll your own with Raspberry PI, or you can buy very cheap ones that are ready to go. 

Have a look at your IPSec settings (optional). You probably need to tweak the 'interface' and/or 'exempt networks' - which network(s) are subject to NAT and which are not. 

"Do I really need to add L2 switch" No, you already have one - the Nexus. Simply carve out a few ports into a VLAN for that segment. If you are really concerned that VLAN's do not effectively segment traffic the 7k has Virtual Device Context functionality whereby you can carve out a 'new' L2 switch. 

NAT is required for a privately addressed endpoint to communicate with an Internet connected endpoint. Firewalls are typically deployed at Internet connection points to limit the scope of incoming traffic. A router, sometimes called a layer 3 gateway, enables endpoints on different subnetworks to talk to one another. Typically, a single subnet exists per VLAN. 

It represents the subnet (subnetwork) mask. 1) Re-write the IP address as computers read it. 192.168.0.0 converts to binary/base2/'bits' as 11000000.10101000.00000000.00000000 2) The number of bits (from left to right) that represent the subnet address is specified as 16 ('/16'). 16 bits, or 11000000.10101000 (192.168) is the network address and 0.0, or 00000000.00000000, is the host address - in this case a broadcast address. It's referred to a mask because you are telling the computer to ignore that number of bits when calculating the host address, or perhaps that the network wears those number of bits as it's identifier, or mask. 

Issues with standing up trunking usually revolve around the ports shutting themselves down due to STP/loop protection. Start by administratively shutting down the ports you want to trunk. Then configure them, then administratively turn them hack up / . All you really have to do is configure a interface, then assign the individual port(s) to and (I believe/if I remember correctly), and lastly assign . Unshut, you're good. 

The AP has a router baked in which can probably hand out it's own addresses (internal DHCP server). Just create an OUTSIDE VLAN on your switch and plug the outside address of your firewall into it and the AP into it. If inside users want internal access they can VPN in via your firewall. That's the easy way. If you want the AP to talk inside and outside WLAN's (SSID's) that can be done but requires a little more configuration. You need a trunk link between the AP and switch and between the firewall and switch to carry frames from both WLANs to the firewall. This will mean configuring your inside firewall port as a trunk as well.