You or support probably checked this already, but is the "Enable Ping from LAN to Management Interface" checkbox on the System->Administration page set? Not sure about not being able to reach the management page remotely. 

I could be wrong, but I want to say the execute command doesn't run a shell. echo is a command provided by the shell. Try using the "run" command instead of "execute". Also note that both run and execute are deprecated in the newest versions. 

Moving MySQL databases is generally going to have some downtime. In the case above, what you might have wanted to do was setup a VPN between site A and site B. At the start, sync Site B MySQL to site A's MySQL using replication or a DB dump. Then change all of the webservers at Site A and B to use Site B's Mysql via the VPN. Then change the DNS entry. Users that have DNS cached to site A will see some latency due to the MySQL connections running over the VPN, but over time those will get moved to B. You can also prep for this by reducing the DNS TTL a few days before the move. Try setting the TTL to five minutes, some servers will ignore this, but most will not. This will increase load on the DNS server, so be careful. 

I have found one way of doing this but looks like it will only partially solve it. Number of conflicting users: 250 Number of hosts with homeDirs: 50 seed for script. 

To visualize and administer LDAP, there are many options, here are some. I personally use ldapsh to perform some quick ldap edits. It visualizes your ldap tree as directory structure which is easy to navigate and make edits using vim or your fav editor. 

(the port number is the office extension and was available). Similarly for other PCs and users. Remote user side: The user working from home will log on to WebVPN and start the Java Application. Once started, he/she can open mstsc.exe /span (/multimon for windows 7) and connect to 127.0.10.11:8891. Windows XP users might have issue with spanning across multiple monitors, when you maximize a window it will stretch across all monitors. In that case, use SplitView. Recommendation: WebVPN is much better than RRAS or client-based solution. You can setup many applications to stream thru VPN without needing to install it locally. Manage Home PC over Internet:(If you have a situation like me) In order to manage the remote home PC over internet, we used a NetSupport with Gateway enabled feature. Configure Netsupport gateway on the DMZ server(preferably windows) and edit firewall rules to allow traffic over internet. On home PC setup the http communication to the public IP or DNS address. Then you can connect NetSuport console to the remote gateway and just connect to the PC over internet. It communicates over HTTPS. We looked at MS Intune for this, but it doesn't allow unattended RDP which we needed as the executive might just walk-in and say, please fix my home PC. :/ 

Will depend on how much time/page loads the average user has. Social networking tends to be "sticky" according to Facebook, so people hang around for a while. More page loads means more load on the system. The code behind the site will have another huge effect, better code will put a lighter load on the system. These days if you don't have a good idea how much/how fast your site will grow you might want to consider one of the cloud hosting environments like EC2 or Rackspace Cloud/Slicehost. You can buy two server instances to get started, and add more servers quickly as load changes. Experience with your app is the best way to get a solid idea on how much capacity you will really need. Excess capacity sitting around is expensive, so avoid it if you can. Having said that, 100,000 users isn't a huge load if they only load the page a few times a day. You should be able to get started on that with as little as a single server and probably no more than 2-3 total. 

Check out /etc/pam.d/system-auth... pam controls authentication, nsswitch.conf does the looking up of uid->name mapping, groups, etc. You'll want the unix pam modules to come before the likewise pam modules. 

From my experience it is temporary, and only effects the command window you issued it in. You have to modify the System settings via Control panel to make it happen for all new windows. 

I have a Siteground cloud server, and I know nothing about servers. It hosts 8 websites, although 3 of them have their own dedicated IP addresses and cPanels. It's on a Linux server, but there's something w/ NGinx mixed in there. For instance, sometimes they have to restart NGinx for me ... some type of combo or something. The basic details on the server are: 

I'm currently paying $30/month for this VPS -- and then an extra $18/month for the two additional cores. Thank you for any guidance anybody can offer! Update: Thank you for everyone who took the time to read this question and answer. Unfortunately, BlueHost has had one of their infamous blackouts that occur monthly since they were acquired by Endurance International Group (EIG) in August 2014. So I'm unable to tinker with any of the solutions posed, as I have no websites, no FTP, no e-mail, and no cPanel access. 

They're all WordPress installations, and recently -- despite no major changes -- my administrative areas in all Siteground websites began lagging extremely slowly and eventually timing out. The techs are usually good, but this guy just told me to purchase 2 additional cores; he said I didn't need to purchase additional storage space or an extra GB RAM. The Sites: They're basically low maintenance sites and not too heavy w/ traffic. USS Vision, WebPrezence LLC (SSLd), and then my nonprofit organization, National Center For Due Process (SSLd, and is the largest and most visited of any of the 8 websites. As server experts, is it possible for anybody here to tell if this tech is correct? Will adding 2 CPUs help, so I don't get locked out of my FTP, cPanel, and back-end of my websites? Is it possible to tell with the little amount of information I'm knowledgeable enough to provide? Or am I way off here and should I be doing something else, leery of the tech's advice? Thank you for any guidance anybody can offer! 

You could make a script that calls the mysql command line and selects the tables out: Something like (this probably won't run): 

As noted in the PHP documentation, a common cause for this in my experience is output buffering by mod_gzip on Apache. Many distributions have this enabled by default now. Mark 

Does anyone have advice or a pointer to articles on how to centralize logs in JBoss? JBoss will log to syslog, which makes it easy, but doing so breaks multi line debug messages (and Jboss loves dropping exception stack traces in the logs). I can rsync the logs, but that isn't realtime. Log4j has appenders for TCP and multicast sockets, so it seems like something probably exists for streaming logs, but I haven't found a receiver for the data. Thanks 

You could also move the email addresses one at a time to the new site, leaving DNS pointed at the old site. Forward each mail address on the old site to @newserver.company.com as it gets moved. Once everyone is moved over, then move DNS to the new server. Give it another day or two for DNS to move, and you're done. 

Do you have a proxy server that clients are using? Check the Internet Options->connections->Lan Settings in IE. If you have cUrl (get the Windows MSVC version here: $URL$ ) try running curl from a commandline: curl -D- $URL$ that should print out more details on what is happening. 

Through VPN, you can access both your local network(corp/home) and remote network(devlopment net) simultaneously, whereas when you SSH to some server, you pretty much on remote network. VPN is one of the alternatives, when your development servers are on a separate network and there are no routes to access it from main/corp network. 

I did similar project 2 years ago and I was in similar position not knowing where to start and how to tie the ends together. Step1: Figure out what you want to accomplish and write it down. Step2: See if the requirements are realistic and can be accomplished altogether. If not, what items are you willing to sacrifice. (This is where it takes a long time). step3: Choose a platform for LDAP. in your case, you already have an existing one. step4: Documenting & Testing. step5: The cut over plan is most critical as it doesn't matter if you accomplish all you wanted to but also to make sure there is a smooth transition. In my case, we had to do in a phased manner. From reading you comments above looks like you already have Openldap in production. Your requirements look like: a) Allowing users to use same password policy on AD. b) User accounts to propagate to LDAP automatically. Answer to a) You can setup a PAM pass-through module in LDAP to delegate password authentication to a DC via kerberos. In this way you will not have the headache of maintaining password in two places. I did on 389-DS LDAP, and the documentation link should be sufficient. When a user authenticates, the PAM module checks if user account exists in LDAP and if so, passes the passwd to PAM stack with krb5.so to authenticate. Check 389-DS documentation which should apply here too. Answer to b) I hit all the cylinders to figure out a way to use a ready solution but nothing came close. This is because you have to massage the schema for accounts and groups. So I with the help of a colleague wrote a script in perl to sync the users & groups from AD to LDAP. A snippe to f code is here. 

Could you add a script, installation step or group policy to change the permissions on that file to writeable by Everybody? 

I'm going to guess that this is because your DNS provider (zerigo.net) is publishing IPV6 records for their DNS servers. Your Windows and MAC clients are using a DNS server that has IPV6 enabled, but doesn't have IPV6 connectivity. This causes a DNS timeout trying to access the DNS servers via IPV6 before failing back to IPV4. Trying turning off IPV6 on the DNS resolver and client machines and see if you get better results. 

Spamassassin can whitelist your domain, but it generally does not (spammers love to forge it). It also has a mechanism for trusting your mail server that might be the issue. Can you provide more details on how you are testing? Are you using SA with a mail server, or just piping your mail into the commandline version of it? 

Try "cat /proc/[process id]/cmdline" Though if it is a true rootkit it may modify the kernel to hide itself better. 

How about creating a DNS entry for "expenses.mycompany.com" that sends to a webserver with a redirect rule of expenses.mycompany.com -> mycompany.com/expenses? As long as clients have a DNS suffix of "mycompany.com" set they will convert "expenses" into expenses.mycompany.com, and hit that webserver. It means a few extra DNS entries, and some virtual hosts on the webserver that do nothing but redirect to the "real" URLs? 

Did I do the right thing in purchasing the 2 extra cores? Should I ask for a refund? Should I ask for something else, like more Terabytes of bandwidth? More than the 30GB of SAN storage I currently have on my Linux? Should I just wait until I have exhausted this billing cycle, which ends in September, and go with another host? 

I recently purchased a premium WordPres plugin called Hide my WP. I planned on using this plugin for my nonprofit organization's website, which is a multisite WordPress installation with an SSL. Upon implementing it, page load times went from 4-6 seconds (already pretty bad, but I have a lot of content) to anywhere from 30-60 minutes. I should add that 95% of the page load times deals with the server response time (you'd see "waiting for nationalcdp.org" in the lower-left when using Firefox); there must be bottlenecks in there, but I can't figure it out. Once the browser connects to nationalcdp.org, the actual pages load quite quickly. Initially, the BlueHost techs blamed me that my sites weren't optimized. But they are optimized for speed ... they get good grades on gtmetrix, pingdom, page speed insights, and others. All caching mechanisms are in place, images are losslessly compressed, javascripts are deferred, html and css are minified, etc. etc. I explained that while I'm not knowledgeable with servers, I'm quite familiar on how to speed up page load times, especially when it comes to WordPress and SEO / speed optimization. I'm using a VPS from BlueHost, and the details of my VPS are: 

Netgroups is very scalable but comes with a huge mgmt overhead. Maintaining hosts, group of hosts, user netgroups(separate from ldpa groups) seems like a very big burden, but is doable. ldap.conf (go to the post by jmozdzen on 1st July) and LDAp based access control. We could template the ldap.conf for each host and create a group with hostname and members as users. But the downside is you cannot specify ldap group(team of users) for access but only individually. sshd_config restriction. But that doesn't work if the users log in natively. Host attribute check. By un-commenting pam_check_host_attr in ldap.conf and add the hostname to each user works well, but automation is not easy. 

Over the past several days I have been trying to get the shadow to work with samba but haven’t been successful. Can someone check below config and let me know if I am missing something? We are using Equallogic SAN and iSCSI LUNS to mount volumes. I can cleanly access samba shares on Windows 7 clients but just not shadow copy. I have referred the official how-to but couldn’t get it to work. I see these messages in the logs. Any help is deeply appreciated. 

I went thru the same path recently where one of the top executives of my company wanted a home PC(not domain managed) to connect to office remotely and use his TWO computers(which has 3 monitors). Server side: We use Juniper's WebVPN and setup a user role to map the office PC to a local loopback address using secure applications manager.