Headers and footers in Word are related to sections in a document. In order to have different headers/footers on different pages (or in this case, a header on some pages but no others), they must be in different sections. You can insert a section break by selecting Page Layout > Page Setup > Breaks, from the ribbon. Once you have inserted a section break, when you look at headers/footers you will see they have a section associated with them, simply delete the header out of section one and leave it in for section two. 

I need a way to compare files in two different sets of locations, preferably in a way that is a little more thorough than just the file name. We recently got a new NAS for the office and have been moving data from various USB hard drives on to it. I would like to be able to confirm that all the files have been moved over successfully. I've had a look at many file compare programs but most of them are sensitive to the directory structure of where the files are. Ideally, I'd just want to hash (MD5 or similar) all the files on drives USB1, USB2 and USB3 and then hash all the files on NAS-VOLUME1 and NAS-VOLUME2 and compare the lists to see which files are missing from which side. I suspect this could be done with a script or from the command line but I'm not overly familiar with working on the command line in OSX (normally a windows type of guys). Any pointers much appreciated 

We have been successfully using Google Apps for our email in my office for some time now but this week one (just one) of my users has developed a problem I cannot solve. As far as I can see, no settings have been changed since the email account was set up - I would suspect a change at the google end but no-one else is reporting this issue. My user has an iPhone 4 and a MacBook Pro running Apple Mail. Both are configured to connect to his email via IMAP. As of this week, emails are only being delivered to ONE of his devices. For example, if we turn of his phone and I send him an email, it arrives to Apple Mail. Upon restarting the phone, that message will not appear in his phone inbox after re-syncing IMAP folder. Similarly, if the MacBook is disconnected from the network and an email arrives it gets sync'd to the phone inbox but then will not show up in Apple Mail after re-syncing IMAP folders/get new mail. The messages are present in the inbox though - they can be seen in the google apps/gmail web interface. I had thought there might be a bug somewhere so the MacBook has been updated to Lion with the latest version of mail and the iPhone as all the latest updates too. I removed and re-created the mail accounts on both devices and set the mailbox behaviors to get mail and keep things up to date - to no avail. My user is adamant he didn't change any settings... but as it is isolated to him I am unsure. That said, I am unsure where to look next - any ideas most appreciated. 

I'm using Xorg 7.5 on a Radeon HD4870 with the FOSS radeonhd server on my HP 6830s. The laptop has a VGA connector and I attach it to a 37" panasonic plasma TV. It works fine except for a little annoyance: when activated, the TV screen is set to the resolution of 1360x768 (which it reports as being the highest it supports) but all the image is shifted by about 100 pixels to the right. I can't see the leftmost part of the page, and I have a black vertical bar to the right. If I change the resolution to 1024x768 there is no shifting, the image fills the entire screen with no parts hidden, but at this resolution the image is stretched. How can I tune the position on the external monitor so that the image is centered in the screen filling it entirely? 

I am setting up a new PC, I just installed windows 7 but it doesn't detect the card for what it is (nVidia GTX 760) and the device manager in windows only show a generic "Standard VGA adapter". The nvidia drivers I downloaded say they can't find any supported hardware. I have installed all the drivers that came with the motherboard (ASRock H170 pro4), but to no avail. The BIOS setup detects the nvidia card on the PCI-E slot, but windows just sees a standard VGA adapter. I am using the correct card (the monitor is connected to it, not to the builtin motherboard adapter). The card is ok because I just took it off another PC on which it has been working perfectly since I bought it. What can I do to solve this? 

I am trying to extend the range of my home network to reach both floors above mine. I've been given 3 linksys re1000 range extenders but I can't understand if they can work in a cascade. I can get one working perfectly fine, but fail with the others. It looks like the second extender I add further away tries to connect to the main router (thus having poor to none signal) instead of the first extender (which gives a good signal as I tested with my laptop). Is it possible to make them work in sequence? Any particular configuration needed? 

I would like to be able to bind some keys to mouse clicks done in specific locations. For example: when I press F1 I should get a left mouse click at coordinates 300x350, F2 at 600x350 and so on. Even better if this could be bound to a specific window application so that coordinates could be relative to it instead of the base desktop. Is there a software which allows this? ADDITION: Ok autohotkey is great but I have problems with my particular setup. Quoting my comment below: 

I'm having this weird behavior: Firefox (4.0.1, Debian version) is showing the same exact page with two different font sizes if the page is hosted on localhost or a remote server. According to Firebug, rendered font in localhost version is 14.3px while the remote server version is 13px. The size specified via CSS is 13px. Chrome shows both pages with the same size so it's not a server issue. Is there any configuration variable that could increase font size based on host? Or anything else that might cause this? 

TortoiseHg has settings to enable the Mercurial Purge extension. But does it actually have a drop down menu or something so that you can purge a directory without having to go to the command line? Or is that extension setting just a convenient way to editing extension settings without needing to load a text file? 

In Windows 7, you could give each folder its own view settings. There were templates like "Documents", "Pictures", and so forth, but you could customize each folder as you saw fit. Except when viewing that folder through a library. When you did that, every folder and sub-folder always used the template. So if you made a change (increasing the width of a column in the "details" view), every other folder using that template would be adjusted to match. Basically, all folders were forced to use the same template. Windows 10 seemed to behave in the same way. Until the 1607 update, that is. Now, every library-visible folder seems to have its own settings. But these settings are different from the individual settings you see normally. So the individual folder view might sort by type and have natural column widths, but when viewed through a library it will be sorted by name and have narrow column widths. Now, Windows will remember these settings, it seems. However, the settings don't propagate to children, nor will they respect the Library's template settings you have set up. Or at least, they won't fully respect them; the overall view type will be respected (detail vs. icons), but not specifics like sorting and columns. So to get reasonable folder views, you have to go to each folder, and every subfolder under that folder, and reset it. Manually. What can be done to get Windows 10's library folder view behavior working the way it used to? 

Some time ago, I installed a Firefox add-on that allows Ctrl-Tab to jump between tabs more intelligently. It remembers the most recent tabs and switches back and forth in that order. It will even display a list of previews (much like Windows Alt-Tab) of the tabs. This was back in the FF3.6 days or so. When Firefox 4 came out, the add-on disappeared from my list of add-ons, possibly due to some conflict. However, the functionality is still there. It works exactly as it did before. The problem is that I have strong suspicions that this add-on leaks memory like a sieve. My other computer with Firefox uses much less memory, while the computer with the phantom add-on can get to 1GB+ of memory usage if it isn't regularly restarted. How do I remove an add-on that is not in the add-on list? And how can I do this safely? I don't want to break my FF install, nor do I want to have to reinstall everything. 

You can configure the NPPExec plugin in Notepad++ to have a startup script. I use this to set certain environment values that I don't normally use to make script execution easier. The problem is that I can't run that startup script more than once, or it will damage the environment. However, when Notepad++ starts up with a startup script, that script also becomes the current script. So if you try to run the current script, you run the startup script again. Is there some kind of condition or something that I can put in the script that will allow it to only run once? Like the last line of the script sets an environment variable, and the first line aborts if the variable is set? It's really annoying to have to restart a fresh copy of Notepad++ just because I forgot to set the current script and pressed F5. 

Is there a way to have a queue in iTunes where you can add the songs you want to hear "on the fly"? Like a temporary playlist. 

The only solution I've found so far - short of clearing the whole cache - is the "Disable entire cache" toggle in Web Developer Toolbar. Once disabled you hard reload the page and you get the new version (remember to uncheck the toggle after you're done). 

this inserts a blank line above the current one keeping you in normal mode and without changing cursor position. 

I don't think you can set a mark to a specific file via .vimrc, however you can map a command to ``V` so that it opens your $MYVIMRC (won't retain the specific line though) 

Since yesterday my secondary hard disk keeps making noise as if it were reading/writing even if it's unused. It happens regardless of the OS running (both windows7 and linux) and I'm sure it's not used since under linux no partition of that disk is mounted on the filesystem. I can say for sure it's the secondary one as the main disk is an SSD. What could be causing this? 

I have a new external disk and just made an ext3 partition on it. I'm wondering what's the best way to set permissions on it (so that it's rw for certain users). I guess I could but I was thinking of a more dynamic way (kind of like and options for and such). 

I've been a mutt user for years and I was skeptical when I came to know about gmail. After I started using it though, I started to see all the good stuff, mostly the ability to access my email with just a simple browser, the end of email backups and the spam filter. I then tried to go back to a dedicated email client (even using my gmail account via IMAP), but fell back to web based gmail usage every time. So I was wondering, what are there reasons NOT to use it, if any? 

Sometimes you open pages which have some small external content like a tracking system, stats counter and the like, and sometimes these services are slow or even not available. Still, firefox waits for a very long period of time during which the page load is not complete. Is there a wait to set a time limit after which it gives up and ends the page load no matter what? 

Answering my own question for future reference. I could get the video drivers to recognize my card and install after a full round of windows update. But that wasn't enough since the most recent nVidia drivers seem to not work well with my GTX 760, and right after boot windows kept telling me that the the "Desktop Window Manager" had stopped working. That meant no aero and quite likely (as I read from many other users) general instability especially in games. What finally solved the issue was installing an older version of the nVidia drivers (in my case I tried v. 347.52 as someone else with my problem suggested) and everything is now working fine.