You can forbid that in a few ways. If your users are on different VLANs, you can impose the firewall between them, or a layer-3 switch could have an ACL between the VLANs. If you use something like a private VLAN, the users cannot communicate with each other. In most cases, the users are on the same VLAN on a layer-2 switch, and you simply cannot control traffic between them because one host communicates directly to the other host via layer-2, and ICMP is a layer-3 protocol. 

It sounds like your question is really just simple routing. Your R2 can advertise any routes about which it knows to R1, either through an IGP, iBGP, or both. R1 can then use eBGP to advertise the aggregate prefix to your ISP, which advertises it to the Internet. Any traffic on the Internet that is destined for any address in that aggregate prefix will be routed to your ISP, which in turn routes it to your R1. When R1 receives the traffic destined for the aggregate, it will look in its routing table to decide where to send the traffic inside your network. Any traffic destined for the aggregate, but having no individual network inside your network, will be blackholed. Your router will send traffic to the interface in your routing table that has the longest match. The aggregate black hole will have the shortest match for any networks you do have in your network, so it will only get traffic for which there is not a longer prefix. Basically, if the traffic is destined for a network in the routing table, it gets delivered to that network, otherwise it gets dropped. 

Depending on what your underlying network sizes are, you can aggregate them to a prefix smaller than what you started with. For example, if you have these networks: 

A non-backbone area should not generate summary LSAs. What number 1 is saying is that any summary LSA coming from a non-backbone area is ignored. An ABR will have at least one interface in Area 0 (backbone), and at least one interface in a non-backbone area. The ABR only uses summary LSAs received from Area 0. You could have an area, e.g. Area 1, which has multiple ABRs. Area 1 will get summary LSAs from Area 0 through all the ABRs, and the Area 1 routers will send those summary LSAs to all the routers in Area 1, including all the ABRs. Remember, the ABRs have interfaces in Area 1, too, and are Area 1 routers for those interfaces. The ABRs will not use the summary LSAs coming from the Area 1 interfaces. 

What you were taught is right or wrong, depending on the network mask. 192.168.1.0 is a valid host address for: 

You are forgetting how ethernet works. An interface needs to know the line protocol is up. Ethernet (CSMA/CD, where the CS stands for Carrier Sense) listens that the line is clear before sending. When the receive pins hear a connection, the interface will work, otherwise the interface doesn't think it is connected to anything, and it will not work. For example, on a Cisco device without the receive pins active, you can do , and the first line of the response will be: 

QoS needs to be comprehensive. You should mark traffic as close to the source as possible, e.g. on the access switches, so that you can treat the traffic for as long as possible on your network. I don't see where you are shaping traffic on the WAN circuit, nor are you queuing on the tunnel. Since your WAN interface does not have 100 Mb service, you really need to shape the interface to the 20 Mb service that you do have. You are using a percent for the priority queue, but your are using the percent from the 100 Mb starting point, not the 20 Mb reality. It is unlikely that you need to queue on your inside interface because it is so much faster than the WAN. You probably want different queues for the traffic which isn't (, , ) VoIP traffic. If you lump larger packet sizes in the queue for VoIP then you will degrade the VoIP. You can configure and run IP SLA to get real numbers for thing like jitter. You probably have a real bottleneck on your distribution switches since they are connecting to the router via a 100 Mb interface. If you don't queue there, you are causing problems. You really need to look at your bandwidth oversubscription ratio on your network, and you need to queue where that happens. QoS needs to be comprehensive. You should mark traffic as close to the source as possible, e.g. on the access switches, so that you can treat the traffic for as long as possible on your network. Edit: One thing to think about is that you need to take into account the packet sizes. With a lot of very small packets for VoIP, you need to adjust the bandwidth to a percentage of the bandwidth. You probably want to start around 85%, but you can adjust it later, after you test it. What I have below should be for a Fast Ethernet WAN circuit that is really 20 Mb. Taking 85% of that gives you 17 Mb. That gives you 15% for the packet overhead. You can adjust the percentages and queue sizes, but I assume this is an ISR router, so I put realistic queues sizes for that type of router. 

IP knows nothing about DNS or names, so packets are not affected by DNS. IP only understands IP addresses, not DNS names. An application will use DNS to resolve a name to an IP address before IP can be used by the application. As a protocol above OSI Layer 4, questions about DNS are off-topic. 

Packets are serialized and sent one bit at a time, and the bits from each packet cannot be mixed because the receiving end has no way to sort out which bits received belong to which packet, so one packet at a time is sent on a link. 

You will either need to run a routing protocol between the layer-3 switch and the router, or you will need to configure static routes to the VLAN network on the router. You will also need a way to have a default route on the layer-3 switch, either specifically configured to point to the router, or through a routing protocol from the router. 

You may want to decrease MSS without decreasing MTU since you may want to put a limit on the size of the TCP segment. You have to remember that not everything transmitted is TCP. You may, and probably do, have other layer-4 protocols used with IP, and you may not want to decrease their sizes. 

Don't confuse the network layers. An ethernet frame is a layer-2 frame, and IGMP is a protocol that has messages that are the payload of a layer-3 IPv4 packet, that is in turn the payload of an ethernet frame. 

Yes, the restrict and protect modes can be violated any number of times without shutting down the port since they are not designed to do that; they will drop packets with unknown source addresses: See Configuring the Port Security Violation Mode on a Port on page 62-6: 

First, classful routing has been dead for 20 years, replaced by CIDR and VLSM in 1995, and is really only useful as a historical reference. The class of an address is determined by the first bits of the address. Some people mistakenly have decided that any is a Class A, any is a Class B, and any is a Class C. It's true those are the default network sizes for those classes, but that doesn't mean that is a Class B network. 

If you want to change the state of an interface based on an event, you should look at the Cisco Embedded Event Manager scripting: EEM Configuration for Cisco Integrated Services Router Platforms Based on an event, the script can perform something like this: 

ACL checks start at the top of the ACL, and they proceed until there is a match, at which point the check will halt. ACLs also have an implicit at the end of the list, so anything not matching a permit in the ACL will be denied. Your problem is that you are permitting the traffic first, so the ACL test will exit before it gets to they deny. You need to put all your explicit deny statements at the top of the ACL, then all your explicit permit statements. Anything not matching the permit statements will be denied. 

There are some rules around using the ULA addressing. The first half of the ULA range of is , and it is reserved for assignment by a global authority, which has not yet been assigned. The second half of the ULA range is , and it has some restrictions. The Global ID (next 40 bits) must be randomly assigned: RFC 4193, Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses 

What you call notches are screw holes that allow you to adjust the left-right position. The rack and mounted equipment needs to have a minimum 1 meter clearance behind it. You should relocate the rack itself. 

That means you could have 48 gigabit ports per switch for 10 switches (I believe that nine is the actual stack limit) and still have wirespeed switching in the stack. Your bottleneck will be the uplink from the stack. Cisco recommends a 20:1 access to distribution bandwidth ratio. That means for every 20 gigabit access interfaces, you need one gigabit in the uplink. 

The fractional service is something less than the full line rate. The specific offerings of a carrier will vary by the carrier. For example, Carrier 1 may offer fractional 10 Gbps in increments of .5 Gbps, Carrier 2 in increments of 1 Gbps, Carrier 3 in increments of 2 Gbps, and Carrier 4 in 2, 5, 8 or 10 Gbps. Some carriers will offer this as a layer-2 link on which you could connect the two sites with VLANs, and some require layer-3 connections. You need to discuss with a specific carrier what it offers. 

Notice the in the output. Cisco has lots of documents on this sort of thing, e.g. Chapter: Implementing RIP for IPv6. 

VLANs are layer-2 constructs that logically divide a switch into multiple, virtual switches. Normally, you put a different layer-3 network on each layer-2 VLAN. Traffic from a VLAN must pass through a router in order to reach a different VLAN. You must consider the layer-2 and layer-3 aspects when setting up different VLANs. For layer-2: As Zac67 points out, you need a trunk from the router to the switch. Trunks with multiple VLANs must tag the frames in order for the devices on each end to distinguish which frames are for which VLANs. You can have a single VLAN with no tags, called the native VLAN. The devices will assume that any untagged frames belong to that VLAN. On some devices, the native VLAN must be VLAN 1, and that is normally the default untagged VLAN. On the switch access interfaces, you do not tag the frames, regardless of the VLAN. Most hosts do not understand frame tags, and because the tags add four bytes to the frame header, the tagged frames are dropped as damaged. For layer-3: The gateway for a network must be in the same network as the source network. A gateway is the host, usually a router, on a network to which traffic destined for other networks is sent. If the gateway is on a different network, you would need a gateway to reach the gateway. Each VLAN will have its own gateway address configured on the router in the same network as the network for the corresponding VLAN. 

If you want class q2 to use up to, but no more than, 25% of the link speed, you need to use policing. Something like: 

Not all hosts have DNS names in a public DNS server. DNS name are just to make it easier for humans, and they are not really required for networking. If this is happening when you open web pages, it is likely that these are ad servers or something similar. 

Ethernet (IEEE 802.3) is a completely separate protocol from Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11). The IEEE has had and maintained multiple different LAN protocols. For example, there is token ring (IEEE 802.5), and it has no relationship to either ethernet or Wi-Fi. They are simply separate LAN protocols maintained by the same standards body. 

If the Reported Distance for a route is less than or equal to the Feasible Distance, then the route is a Feasible Successor. You can have multiple Feasible Successors, or none at all. The Feasible Distance is the historic, since the route went Active, best metric for a destination. It is possible for there to be multiple routes to the destination, but none are Feasible Successors because the Reported Distances are all larger than the Feasible Distance. If the Successor route goes away, then the Feasible Successor with the best metric takes over, end of story. If there are no Feasible Successors (because none of the other routes' Reported Distances meet the Feasible Distance), then a query goes out to see if there are any neighbors that know how to reach the destination. If so, then the new Successor, and possibly Feasible Successors, are chosen. 

Cisco has a document, Troubleshooting Cisco Catalyst Switches to NIC Compatibility Issues, that describes this, that includes a table that tells you what happens at various settings. A duplex mismatch usually occurs when on side of a link is set to auto-negotiate, but the other side of the link is set to a fixed speed. When this is the case, the side set to auto-negotiate cannot negotiate. It will detect the fixed speed, and it will default to the duplex for the speed (half duplex for 10 or 100 Mbps). A duplex mismatch will cause a lot of input errors, collisions, runt, giants, etc. Your throughput will be horrendous. Things will seem to work very slowly. 

You need to understand the difference between layer-2 and layer-3 for an answer to have any real meaning for you, and I suspect you don't. A layer-2 network is a LAN, and all hosts on it are peers. A LAN is bounded by layer-3. The layer-2 frames are delivered to the host with the destination MAC address in the frame. I one host wants to send something to all the hosts on the LAN, it will address the frame(s) with the MAC address. Each host is obligated to strip the frame and inspect the packet to see if the packet is meant for it. A layer-3 network is usually, but not always, on a layer-2 LAN. Router use layer-3 to send packets between LANs. A host on a LAN cannot send a layer-3 packet without first encapsulating it in a layer-2 frame, and that requires layer-2 MAC addresses. You need ARP (or an equivalent, see IPv6) to resolve the layer-3 address to a layer-2 address. When a host sends a packet to another host on the same LAN, it first looks in its ARP cache to see if it has a layer-2 address for the layer-3 address. If it does not, it sends an ARP request. The ARP request is broadcast at layer-2 to all hosts on the LAN, looking for the host which owns the layer-3 address. The host owning that address will respond with an ARP reply, giving the requesting host its MAC address. In this case, a layer-2 broadcast gets the attention of all the hosts on the LAN, but only the host with the layer-3 address responds. A layer-3 broadcast packet is meant for all hosts on the layer-3 network. When a host needs to resolve the layer-3 broadcast, it uses the layer-2 broadcast address for the frame. There are two types of layer-3 broadcast: the limited broadcast, , as you noted, and the network broadcast, the highest IP address in a network. The limited broadcast can never cross a router, while a network broadcast may cross a router if the router has been configured that way, although that is considered a security risk, and routers do not allow this, by default, but that was not always the case.