In Excel 2016, I'm trying to set up a pivot table which has a Date-format column and group it by weeks. Ungrouped, the data looks like this: 

No option to "Clone Basic Disk" on the working local HDD Converted the local HDD from GPT to MBR Used "Clone Basic Disk" to copy this HDD to an external HDD Tried to boot the local machine... 

The column has a relatively simple formula to count the entries from my questionnaires: . Each column after , i.e. , and so on up to represents one questionnaire. So, if the column contains a in , it means that questionnaire's response was "I am a girl". As an example, the below questionnaire in row would have answered "1A: Boy", "1B: Year 9", "1C: (cell C7) Secret Middle School", "1D: Never attended any other high school", "2A: Have been bullied", "2D: In middle school" etc. 

Regardless of what I try, I can't get the weeks to group starting on a Monday. Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated! 

Count the number of students (i.e. where column has a value of ) that ALSO have a (column ) value of or . 

We (the educational establishment I work for) use Office365 for e-mail. We recently set up a Google Apps for Education account on the same domain, to use with students, and we didn't really think we'd need e-mail access. However, we've since learnt that it would be useful to have access to e-mails for notification purposes, e.g. when homework tasks are set/fed back on. At the moment, our students have addresses like and staff have . These are the same formats that we use on our Office365 accounts (which some, but not all, students have access to for Office Pro Plus). Is there any way of setting our Google Apps domain up so that Gmail only tries to send to itself? At the moment, if I send an e-mail to a colleague from my Google account, they will receive it in O365. I would like Gmail to only ever send to other Google accounts, especially when sending feedback notifications etc. If I send an e-mail from Google to a colleague, I'd want it to go to their Google account - not O365. Thanks in advance 

As you can see, the grouping starts on 6th Sep 2017 which was a Wednesday. Presumably this is because where my data starts. Unfortunately, this renders the data somewhat useless. I need the data grouped by weeks starting on a Monday. I've tried changing the Starting With and Ending With settings to: 

You are mis-interpreting the warning message here. It is not about the drive letter being the optical drive, but about programs and documents with explicit references to data stored on - which you are breaking by changing the drive letter. You will see this warning for any drive letter change, not just the one involving an optical disk drive. 

This would introduce even if the is not present in the file, but as the content is a no-op, it should not present any serious issues. Take care to escape regex special characters in the line. 

You can't. SMART is guessing, it can't be sure of anything. There has been a research at Google concerning HDD failures with a rather fuzzy result about SMART predictions: 

You can't customize ICS all that much. If you only need routing and NAT services from it, consider just using RRAS instead. It is configurable and does not come with a bundled DHCP server. 

You are looking for the plugin config directive, it is hinting at the resolution steps to build the RRD with: 

You are likely suffering from the Force Unit Access type for your write operations. While it is meant to maintain durability for all writes, there might be regressions especially with NVMe drives and certain device / firmware / driver combinations. The PCMark FAQ is describing something very similar: 

As long as you are not root, you simply could revoke the write permission for the ~/nas directory for yourself and use sudo for elevated mounting: 

The utility will show you the number of interrupts per second, not just the CPU usage. It is worth looking at it to make sure you actually have a problem with the number of interrupts and not just a driver taking more processing time than expected. If the data suggests a driver problem, unloading the modules one by one to see when the load stops seems like the fastest way to identify the culprit. Also take a look at - it is giving you a more detailed breakdown on the kind of interrupts happening. Another thing to consider are power states - a CPU might be set into power-saving states where it would have significantly reduced processing abilities. Percentages would naturally go up as the cake of total processing time is shrinking. Use to see what amount of time your CPU is running in different available C-states and at what frequencies. Disable PM (e.g. by setting in BIOS setup) and see if this helps. Last but not least, it may be a hardware problem with an extension card or your NIC - consider unplugging everything you can to see if this might be the case. 

I have a customization dilemma. I love the way xfwm4 looks in terms of the window decorations, I als prefer the window buttons (close minimize...) to be on the right. But I want the neat visual candy from the compiz effects like the desktop cube. Does anyone know of a way to get the visuals of xfwm4 and the visual candy of compiz at the same time on ubuntu 17.04? 

I currently have 3 OS and 4 drives, I have windows installed alone in an sdd, ubuntu in a partition of an HDD that it shares with a partition for windows files, and an archlinux installation on a different sdd. I have tried to fix grub with helpers from ubuntu, arch linux, and tried to fix things with windows installation disk, I think I have made things worse. I have not messed up the OS's themeselves, but for all given purposes I have now 4 different bootloaders (2 grubs, 1 refind and windows boot) and none of them find all OS. In other words I need to add the OS's one by one by hand, and understand what each entry in the grub cfg file means, so that if things break I can fix them. I don't want software to do it for me, I don't want boot repair. I want to do it myself, by hand, with the risk of breaking everything. Thank you in advance. 

When you boot out of the box ubuntu, there is a post grub menu "animation" of orange circles loading. I want to know if I can instruct grub to display my own custom image during the post menu bootloading. I have tried looking this up,m but I only get how to change the background. My main OS is arch linux btw. 

So This is both for conky, but for general debugging as well. I need a way to list all processes currently using the GPU and how much of it they are using. The best thing I have yet is nvidia-smi which get's you more information than I need. I could just use grep in a clever way to get rid of the things I don't need, but since this is for conky I'd rather reduce processing as much as I can, so If I can simply output the processes and nothing more that'd be better. In addition to that, the command gives me the gpu ram used by the process, but is there a way to check the core usage (I am aware this may not eb possible due to the amount of cores on a gpu I am just asking) This would be the output of nvidia-smi: