However, the interaction between the "Perfomance Options" / "Visual Effects" window and the registry is quite mysterious and I never found a decent reference about it. 

If you want to automate the settings for Aero Peek and Desktop Composition, you can tweak these registry settings: 

If the drive has been mounted automatically (as it should be on a desktop system like Ubuntu), you can enable write with 

For some reason, the solution in an alias, as suggested by user szkj, didn't work correctly for me. While it did preserve commands executed in the MC subshell, commands entered before starting MC were lost after exiting. Finally, I use the following in , without an alias. It seems to work fine despite the fact that overwrites . 

For IMAP accounts, offline folders are enabled by default, so a copy of all mail is kept locally. To disable it: 

To avoid duplicates, you can modify . I have done this to the ssh-copy-id distributed with Debian's openssh-client, which for me was version 1:6.0p1-4. In short, I modified 

The title is misleading, since the author doesn't really want a full diff. He only wants to know IF 2 files are different. The distinction is important if the files are big. Checksumming methods will obviously read both files entirely. As far as I could tell, Windows' and both also read the entire files, even if there was a difference in the first bytes. As John T suggests, get GNU diffutils, which includes . With big files, will be a lot faster than COMP or FC. That is if you need it to be a command-line tool. If you can use a GUI shareware, Total Commander has a "Compare Files" command, and a "Synchronize dirs" command which can be set to compare files by content. Both are extremely fast. 

The reason you're getting that error is because the Internet Explorer .exe is actually named , not . It's just an extra that you typed in its name that shouldn't be there. The full command for what you're trying to do should be: 

The file will be located in a corresponding folder (in your case, the folder name should start with e1i63x64) inside the following directory: 

Which will prompt you for the password of on . You can also pull file/folders from a remote PC to your local PC. The command syntax for this method is as follows: 

The picture above your username on the lockscreen in Windows 7 is your user profile pic. To change it do the following: 

When you navigate to that directory you will see a lot of files that don't look like picture files, as seen in the following screenshot: 

Install - regular install without removing old drivers/software. Clean Install - use in a situation like an upgrade from previous version. The clean install will remove the old drivers first and then install the new ones. This is akin to running a program like DDU (Display Driver Uninstaller) so that there will be no driver conflicts with your new drivers. So then it can install your new drivers from a clean slate. 

It does give you an option to set the shorttcut in > > At the bottom of the Customize window choose Insert under and then choose New Page under . Then choose from the available Shortcut Keys that you can scroll through at the top of the window. Once you've selected a keyboard shortcut you want click Modify over on the right and your keyboard shortcut will be set. 

So, I have been going through and riping all of my DVD's and it seems that the way to get the highest quality out of these is to have DVD Shrink de-encrypt, rip, and decompress, the DVD's. After that I usually end up with a high quality (high size) set of .vob files in a classic DVD structure. Then I use a python script that I wrote to automate the process of finding the title sequence and then combining all of the title sequences' .vob files together into one file(similar to the "copy /b" command in windows), and then changing the extension to .mpg (a more widely supported format then .vob). This allows me to get a high quality rip in about 40 min. The problem comes in playing the files. I need all of the ripped dvd's to play on my media computer using windows media center but windows media center (and vlc for that matter) all think that the video files are anywhere from 5 min. to 0 min. which is not a problem (the video will still play all the way through) but if you want to pause it, when it is unpaused the video will start all the way over (Also fast forward and rewind don't work). I suspect that it is something wrong with the way the timeline is encoded in the video file, various forums on the internet recommended using virtualdub to fix the errors. But when I try to open the file virtual dub says that the file is not in mpeg-1 encoding and may be in mpeg-2. Is there any way to fix this? PS: I am aware that there was a similar question but it hasn't had any activity for 2 months and is dealing more with wmv files. 

You'll find a lot of these sites with the names of popular sites (like github in your case) but using the .cm domain instead of .com From Wikipedia: 

You may or may not, depending on the software that requires the redistributable. Some software is written to rely on a specific redistributable, while another software may be written to rely on that older redistributable but is also able to use any of the more recent versions all the way up to the latest version. From microsoft's forum: 

Start by opening (in Windows 7 go to Start Menu > Run and enter ; for Windows 10 just click Start Menu and start typing and hit Enter) Navigate to Delete both of the following keys: and Right-click on the key and select and name it Right-click on key and select and name it Right-click on key and select and name it Right-click on key and select name it Double-click on in the right window pane to bring up the option. In the filed enter 

It's not a case of browser/DNS hijacking. What's happening in your case is what is referred to as Typosquatting. From Wikipedia: 

No, you will not be able to add additional RAM at this point. Your only option for 16GB of memory was to have opted for it at the time of purchase as the 8GB and 16GB configurations available for your model are both onboard memory. From support.apple.com for the specs for your laptop: 

After the setup completes you should now have in your folder (which should be either in or , depending on whether you chose "for all users" or "just for this user" during the python install). Before you can use Pyinstaller you'll also need to install . Again, normally the easiest way to install this is to simply run: 

Too Fast? I didn't even know that a too fast existed, you should be fine, I wouldn't be too worried about the SSD screwing anything up. 

In my limited knowledge on the subject, windows xp mode is based on hardware virtulization, which means that as soon as you switch on xp-mode you processor starts to run 2 operating systems at a time. So, what you need to be looking at is the cpu usage which should skyrocket when you turn it on. 

Well, that's probably because you can only transfer so much data over one connection. However in a multi-threaded program you can have two connections receiving data at the same time and doubling the amount of information you can obtain. There are some limitations to this for example the speed of the server you are downloading from... Hats off two whoever wrote the multi-threaded downloader, those are not easy to write. 

Apparently owning a file in windows doesn't give one permission to do anything to it... adding myself using icacls with full control: 

My whole problem started when I started trying to install Backtrack(3 or 4) Backtrack was trying to install itself over my entire windows partition (Which I had combined into one when I installed windows 7). So I booted back into windows 7 on my netbook (eee pc 1000 HE btw) I went into disk-manager with the aim of making a partition to install backtrack on but came out with a really screwed up drive. So I had two partions when I started: the windows system partition, and then my main partition and they were blue in diskmanager (I think that has something to do with formatting). After I went through the steps to make a 10 GB FAT32 partition for backtrack I had about five partitons one called PE: that I have no Idea what it is the windows system file, my main partiton 10 GB unallocated space, and two other partions under 50MB each that are both unused space. And they were all converted to simple volumes (Green instead of blue). And backtrack still wants to erase my entire drive. Question number 1: How do I get it back to the way it was? Question 2: How to I get backtrack to dual boot on my netbook? 

You may also want to disable "Global Search and Indexer" under Preferences -> Advanced -> General. See $URL$ for more details. 

You can enable writing to HFS+ in Linux even if you didn't disable journaling. In addition to hfsplus which you already have, you need to have hfsprogs installed: 

Indeed, the missing keys on Macbooks (and many Windows notebooks) are something extremely annoying. Normally, on Macbook keyboards, you get Home / End with fn-Left / fn-Right and PgUp / PgDown with fn-Up / fn-Down However, as you noticed, this doesn't work in Terminal apps like nano, Midnight Commander, less, etc. In Terminal, you need to add Shift to let them "pass through" to Terminal. Home : Shift-fn-Left End : Shift-fn-Right PgUp : Shift-fn-Up PgDn : Shift-fn-Down Of course, when what you really need happens to be Shift-Ctrl-Home ... forget it! (Or connect a real keyboard) And Midnight Commander users will want to know that the missing Insert key can obtained with Ctrl-T 

On my machine with OS X 10.9.5, it was Image Capture which opened automatically instead of Photos. But anyway, the solution may be the same. The solution in the accepted answer unfortunately didn't work for me. But this worked: 

I do that so I can use a comfortable file manager (MC) and my usual shell configuration instead of what I would get in the NAS shell. 

/mount/point would usually be /media/Your_drive_label /dev/sdx is your HFS+ device Use to find which device is already mounted on which mount point. 

(Of course, that should be exactly the same as copying from the Get Info windows, but obviously it isn't in Lion 10.7.4). This created the 2 files you would expect on the destination: and it's resource fork . However, it also created another file which seems essential. It is displayed as in the Mac Terminal, but got a weird name on the Samba share, probably to work around the illegal trailing dot. (on my machine, Samba replaced the trailing dot with the UTF8 "private" character xEFx80xA9) Update: Even when copying from Preview, it does not always work with NFS. It does sometimes!?!... Copying the files from a FAT32 drive (which also has the extra file) to the NFS share doesn't work. What does seem to work reliably is terribly convoluted, but anyway, here it goes: 

Pretty well from what I've seen, slightly slower with the real-time protection but still fast. You can see a bunch of AV comparisons on this site: AV Comparatives EDIT: Also just from looking at the tests I linked to it looks like KIS has no particular benifit over MSE, McAffe, or AVG. Personally I user avast! and really like it, lots of options and is pretty good performance wise. 

It appears that you haven't installed ubuntu to your flash drive correctly... I recommend following the steps on Ubuntu's Website, as well as using a program like Unetbootin or my favorite UltraISO (google them)... Now as far as some of the other things: Ubuntu will never work like windows, it doesn't try to work like windows, and as far as the constant need for installing new packages goes, that will always be there as well. It's part of the idea, ubuntu is a fairly stripped down OS, It doesn't come with most of the parts one would expect from an operating system like windows, that said all of these things can be installed from various sources. As far as traditional locations, like C:, they don't exist in ubuntu, the root or "/" is basically a rough concept of the same thing. As far as documents folders and such they can be found in your home directory "~" or you can click "Places" --> "Home" to find that. Also one last note, quite a bit of great free software can be found in the ubuntu "universe" which can be found by going to "Applications" --> "Get new software" 

That should return much more quickly also the -W parameter is in milliseconds, so that should send 1 packet and only wait 250ms for a response. EDIT You Sure?: