There's currently no way to disable it at all, but you can stop this annoying window from popping out. Also, you probably have noticed that the process is "wuactl.exe", and you can't just kill it: it comes again. Install Process explorer from SysInternals: it's capable of 'suspending' a process for debug purposes. Find 'wuactl.exe' there, right-click, and choose 'suspend'. The process will not display anything after this trick :) I;m not sure whether each user has this process running, but being an Administrator you can suspend all of them. Make sure the popup window is not visible, or the user won't be able even to dismiss it temporarily! A few words about automating this: 'suspend' action is WinAPI-dirven, so you can create a small daemon (or maybe even a bat script?) that determines whether 'wuactl.exe' is running, and suspends it if found. Cheers! 

You may have added your virtual hosts to or something like this, and the file was overwritten on update (you were prompted!). Check if you still have your virtual hosts in (one host per file) and that have valid resolvable symlinks in : this is the right way to add them in Ubuntu (I believe, in all Unix systems that's common: a great idea to have them separate rather than piling in a single file!). 

Possibly, you were infected with a DDoS bot which uses your bandwidth for attacking servers. Try scanning with Avast! — it's free but powerful. If you have a wireless access point — make sure it's protected with a good password, and WPA, not WEP: WEP is weak and easy to hack through. 

I know a tool that can transfer files in chunks. The tool is called 'rtorrent' package/port that's available on both hosts ;) BitTorrent clients often reserve disk space before the transfer, and chunks are written directly from sockets to the disk. Additionally, you'll be able to review ALL transfers' states in a nice ncurses screen. You can create simple bash scripts to automate "*.torrent" file creation and ssh a command to the remote machine so it downloads it. This looks a bit ugly, but I don't think you'll find any simple solution without developing :) 

My buddy is running Oracle VirtualBox, and everything works fine - except for the fact that the backslash ( ) key on a Swiss-German keyboard doesn't work - instead you're getting a vertical bar ( ) - which is really quite annoying if you're trying to type in UNC paths.... The on a Swiss-German keyboard is on the key with the and signs - you need to press or to get it. Is there any way to teach VirtualBox that we're using a Swiss German keyboard and that it should respect the keyboard layout?? 

Is that even possible? If so: how? I'm a programmer - not a sys admin - so this stuff is all a tad foreign to me :-) Any thoughts, ideas, approaches are most welcome ! 

I have a HP Ultraslim docking station for my HP Elitebook Folio 9470m ultrabook. The connection to the external monitor and the network works fine - but I cannot seem to plug in any peripherals into the USB ports on the docking station 

My buddy is using TotalCommander as his file manager and program launcher, and I was wondering if there's any way to create a program launch button that will start up Visual Studio as an admin? When I create a shortcut on my Win7 desktop, there's a setting in the Advanced options to launch Visual Studio as an admin. How can I do the same in TotalCommander?? Has someone figured that out yet?? 

The peripherals work just fine when I plug them directly into the ultrabook - but that kinda defeats the purpose of having a docking station! Any ideas? Thoughts? Similar experiences? Anything I can check, set, configure to make those USB ports recognize my peripherals? 

Whatever you have set in there is displayed when a new tab is opened without a specific URL. It default to which shows the most recent sites - but this crapware re-routed that URL to their lame search site. Fixed it, and things are now back to normal and Firefox is usable again! 

I have set up a Microsoft "Live" account, and one of the features is the "OneDrive" cloud storage. I've used this quite a bit from Windows 7, and it has worked flawlessly - I could open my files everywhere, even on a Mac. Now with my new Windows 10 laptop, I don't have to install the OneDrive client software anymore - it's a built-in Win10 app. Sounds like a great improvement - but where on earth do my files go?? The files that I synchronize to OneDrive using the Win10 Onedrive app don't show up in the same place as my Windows 7 files, so on Windows 7 or a Mac, I cannot see those files...... or am I just looking in the wrong place?? What would be the right place to look for files synchronized by the Win10 Onedrive app?? 

P.S. I'm not in common with how Alsa really works and may have made terrible mistakes :) Please correct me if there's a better way. But still, this works :) 

Your sound-card does it. Just open the volume control applet, and move "Line in" channel top the top (you might need to enable the channel configuration slide so it's not hidden). Also try opening console (gnome terminal), and launch there: 

I'll give an example. This will search for files with owner=1000 and write them to "uid.list", search for files with group=1000 and write them to "gid.list" and it will skip paths beginning with /proc, /sys, /dev. The advantage of combined conditions is that filesystem is scanned only once. Here it is: 

Here's your symbols map: In Ubuntu, we have a mapping for apple keyboards here: '/usr/share/X11/xkb/symbols/macintosh_vndr/apple'. First, backup this file. This file has several sections, each starts like this: 

There are lots of complaints concerning Wi-Fi compatibility. Probably, you have RaLink chipset or even worse: manufacturers often ignore Linux support, or provide BUGGY-LAGGY drivers (Hey, ASUS!). The Wi-Fi situation is pain in the ass, really... Check these links: WirelessCardsSupported and Linux wireless LAN support and find out whether it's compatible. The most painless solution is to buy an adapter which works like a charm. Atheros chips are VERY good, and here's an excellent Atheros-inside unit TP-LINK TL-WN821N: rather cheap, powerful (20dBm transmitter!), 802.11N and works out of the box. There are more wireless devices that work nice, but I swear this one really works! Cheers! :) 

You won't be able to move windows and copy text between different workspaces. Do you still need it? ;) I guess the problem is with some top/bottom panels that extend to the second screen, and fullscreen apps? Then check your Ubuntu display configuration. 

Here's another receipt how to choose which of the 2 available cards will the next launched application use. Add these lines to /etc/asound.conf: 

UPD: Sometimes a bug is found in some data-processing software: image/PDF viewers, video codecs, etc. If the bug allows to execute arbitrary code, a virus can enter your system inside the thumbnails generation process: this happens when a virus is hidden within some file's data in a way so it's executed by the buggy decoder. It's a rare case, however. Just keep your OS/software/libraries up to date and you're more or less secured :) 

Of course - this will happily launch Solution#1, but then it is blocked and never gets around to start up the other solutions. So I need something like "execute those four tasks in parallel" - but in Windows CMD script... any takers?? I might also consider PowerShell, if that would make life easier... I would just like to be able to click on a single icon, go grab a coffee, and when I'm back, my four solutions would be open in Visual Studio for me. Any thoughts, ideas? 

Some crapware has installed itself into my system and has "infected" all my browsers. I've been able to reset all the home pages and search providers to what I want - but in Firefox (v22), I'm still struggling with one point: whenever I open a new tab, that crapware site gets loaded - which I DO NOT want. But how and where can I undo this damage? I haven't found anything just yet.... I did find a number of items on the Mozilla support site talking about the page - but that's not what seems to be causing this site to load in every single new tab that I'm opening. Where else in Firefox can I define what site gets loaded on a new tab? I gone back and forth through all the configuration dialogs, checked the extensions etc - it's not there. I've removed all mentions of that crap site from my registry - so it shouldn't be there, either. Where else could that crap URL be hiding and be pulled from for each new tab?? 

I recently had to re-install my machine with Windows 7 x64 Professional, and Office 2010 including Outlook. Since that new installation, whenever I launch Outlook, it prompts for the the profile to use - I only ever have a single one. I cannot seem to make it use that profile as the default - even though I clicked on that option in the "Choose profile" dialog box every time since reinstallation..... doesn't seem to stick. Can't seem to find a way to set up that feature in Outlook itself, either.... any ideas?? 

There's a question in ServerFault that has two more potential fixes: $URL$ As mentioned in there, you might want to try: 

If you can extract the kernel module from your backups, you can use the command on it to list the driver version. To identify the possibility of a NIC firmware update, a precise identification of the exact NIC model is necessary. From your log output, I can see your NIC is PCI device 00:19.0 and the name of the network interface is . Please run these commands as root: 

If server A can establish a TCP connection to port 22 of server B, and you are entering those commands in server A, then the tunnel is unnecessary. 

The "proxy" IP address 198.143.56.17 is not on your network: it does not have even the same prefix as yours. I used the logger feature in the uBlock Origin browser extension to see what requests are made when accessing that page on www.iplocation.net. While doing this, the page showed me two IP addresses as "proxies": my own IP address, and another incapsula.com address. This makes me think the proxy detection at www.iplocation.net is not currently entirely reliable. It appears the page includes some references to "incapsula.evyy.net". Looks like this evyy.net is acting as a reverse proxy for Incapsula, and the address finder page detects this and lists it in the "proxy" section. In other words, it is a side effect of www.iplocation.net's own structure. I also note that this page seems to include some advertising for VPNs. Although the odd "proxy" reporting may be a honest mistake, the fact that they don't explain their "proxy" results in any further detail makes me think it might possibly be deliberate to make the readers worry about their security... and perhaps then buy a VPN. 

Do you happen to have a wireless mouse, keyboard, game controller or similar? It is possible that the drivers for those devices tell Windows "this device has a battery, level XX%". Windows would then duly report that, while missing the fact that it is not powering the whole system, like a UPS or a laptop battery would be. 

Windows bootloader does not support password protection at all. You'll have to install GRUB bootloader in order to have this feature. 

I have an Apple Aluminium keyboard. To the left of 1 key I have the less/greater (< >) key, not grave/tilde (` ~). does not work for me: layout switching (done with ) resets my xmodmap changes. file does not help either. How do I remap the tilde key? 

I'd like to know which new packages (brand new, not the updated ones) have appeared in my installed repos. Just in case there can be something useful :) I guess it should be a simple bash script to list-sort-diff. But maybe, there're some better solutions? 

First, let's deal with Alsa devices' indexes. Plug in your USB Speaker and invoke so Alsa finds it. List cards indexes and their drivers: 

Maybe, your Xorg has lost video driver? Try launching the "hardware drivers" application and re-set it. Without a driver no desktop effects are working. 

Have a look at YaKuake: a very nice terminal that drops down from the screen top, highly customizable and newb-friendly. Enjoy :) 

I've read the whole screen man recently, and there's no common way to do it if screen itself can't remember it automatically. 

Unplug everything and check if it beeps (no CPU should make it puzzled :) ). If not, it's likely a MB issue. Then put the CPU back in, check beeping. If not, it still can be a MB issue. To prove that, try another CPU. Now put the video card back in. Check. Then RAM. Check. try moving the RAM around, try inserting one module in different slots. 

We want to have 'Speaker' with index=0. Add these lines to to make USB Speaker the default device, if present: 

The latter mapping, , replaces F13-F15 with PrintScreen, ScrollLock, Pause. Use it if you lack these keys :) Choose the section you've got from the command output above, and append the following, before the final of the section: 

What GUI tools do you advise to improve the usability of Linux for those accustomed to doing system administration the windows-way? Users new to Linux often get confused when they need to configure something: editing a text configuration file may seem hard to them, and they want a GUI to tick checkboxes and just get what they want. A short list includes: hardware issues, drivers, Xorg (especially!), performance, network settings, sharing, user accounts, etc. P.S. I've looked through questions already asked here, and found that there's no real centralized list of applications. Let's unite our knowledge! Community Wiki ;)