With the virtual machine turned off, open its "Settings" (either from Hyper-V manager, or from the VM Window) In the "Hardware" list, click the existing network adapter, note its settings, and then click "Remove" In the "Hardware" list, click "Add Hardware" at the top, then choose "Legacy Network Adapter" and click "Add" Configure the new adapter with the settings you noted from the old one. Save your changes and start the VM. 

As @Keltari mentioned, many apps bundle their own Java version along with the application because it saves them from relying on your installed Java which they know nothing about. You can open the DeltaWalker application in Finder to see that this is what is happening here. (I did this with a new copy of the DeltaWalker dmg, but yours should be the same). Find the DeltaWalker "Application", Ctrl-click or right-click on it, and choose "Show Package Contents". Navigate to to see the version of Java that is being used by the application. You can go to this path in a Terminal window, go into the folder, and run to confirm that it is the same version you are seeing in the User-Agent. (I can't check this myself, given that I am actually picking apart the application using 7-zip on a Windows computer.) It is theoretically possible to just replace this Java version with a newer one, but I would hesitate to do that, given how tightly tied-together application components may be and given that DeltaWalker bundles many other dependencies along with it (helper executables and JAR plugins) which may also have issues. If you are not using the most recent version of the application, you should update it if you can. If you can't, or if the most recent version is still too old, you should contact Deltopia Support. 

Is there some way I can get this document out without having to go back to Office 2013 on another computer and moving it? 

A major reason to not use "Join" is simply to prevent accidentally joining someone else's network that has the same name as yours. This could be because multiple people in your area have chosen the same name, or it could be because a malicious neighbor is trying to trick you into connecting to his router instead of to your other one, thus allowing him to spy on your traffic. If you enter all of the settings on both routers manually, it's much less likely that you will connect to the wrong one. This is very similar to the reason that WPS "Push to Connect" buttons are bad security. If you and your neighbor both push the "Connect" buttons on your respective routers, then it's a tossup for which of the routers your device will actually connect to. (Additionally, in the WPS case, the reverse is also true - if you push the "Connect" button on your router and then your neighbor pushes "Connect" on his device before you push "Connect" on yours, your neighbor will be connected to your network without needing to enter the key.) Basically, the reason that these types of "Join/Connect" buttons are insecure is that any system that allows you to bypass its security for your convenience also allows an attacker to bypass the security too. 

I have a Windows Server 2000 machine that has a popup on startup saying that a service failed to start. In the Windows Event Log there is the following message: 

I replaced my existing router with a new Asus RT-N56U wireless router. My computers can now see the iPhones. 

I'm trying to give access to a website in IIS on my Win 7 machine to another person on my network. He's unable to access it. I was wondering if perhaps it was because IIS isn't configured to allow remote connections (I seem to remember having to do this sort of thing on Win XP). I've hunted around in IIS and googled but am not finding a way to configure remote connections on Win 7. Some of the answers I've found seem to refer to Win Server 2008 and talk about a management service in IIS Manager, but it doesn't appear to be present on my machine. 

I have a home network with a Trendnet wireless router and a Windows Domain. The Domain Controller/DNS server is a Windows 2000 Server and is configured to forward queries to DNS servers provided by the ISP. The router provides DHCP and is configured with the Windows 2000 Server as the DNS server. The network has been set up for a couple of years and usually works fine. When I connect iPhones to the network over WiFi, the router can ping the iPhones through its browser based admin interface, but Windows machines that are part of the Windows Domain cannot. A laptop was connected to the network over WiFi that wasn't joined to the domain and it could see the iPhones. The router UI shows that the laptop has a reserved IP allocated via DHCP. All machines either have a static or DHCP allocated IP on the 192.168.0.* subnet. 

I have a font called Pump LET Plain Demi Bold installed on my Windows 7 computer and it shows up and can be used when logged in an account that is part of the administrator group but not as an account that is just a standard user. Why is that? I thought fonts were a system wide resource. The Fonts screen in Control Panel says the font is stored in . When logged in as the administrator user I can see that the font file has permissions for and and and permissions for . When logged in as the standard user account, I can open a command prompt and successfully execute a . It shows the file details as expected. When I paste the file path into the address bar of Windows Explorer a dialog pops up saying . 

Turns out the Plop Boot Mananger does what I need. I was able to create a bootable CD with Plop Boot Manager installed. When it runs, it prompts me which device to boot from, which includes USB. 

According to discussion the Linux Kernel Mailing List in 2001, was not built with support for the underlying code calls used by . I have not found any evidence that such support was added in the last 12 years. 

While the first one is most secure, it can only be used if you start the service manually every time. If you need to do either of the other options, make sure that you properly secure the config file (option 2) or the private key (option 3) to prevent access to it. 

After opening a "Windows Modern UI" Application, and seeing a flash of the blue Narrator-is-reading-this-box-of-text border, I realized that I should also check the full-screen Settings application in addition to the regular Ease of Access Center. I found that, in addition to the settings in the traditional Ease of Access Center, there is also an Ease of Access Center in the modern settings. Here, Narrator was somehow turned on. After I turned off Narrator here, I had to restart the computer in order for the change to take effect. 

Click the "information" button (circled letter 'i') on the left side of the address bar, or for a secure site, click the lock icon on the left side of the address bar. Find "Notifications", about halfway down the popup. (See the image below.) To the right of "Notifications", it should say "Allow". Click there and choose either "Always block on this site" (to have it never ask you again) or "Use Global Default (Ask)" (to have it prompt you in the future if you want to re-enable them). 

(Occasionally, it also happens a day or so later that I suddenly hear the fan of my laptop spin up to high speed and see my remaining battery life dropping rapidly. Looking in task manager, I see a process running with high CPU usage. Killing that process slows the CPU fan and restores the battery life to its usual drain rate. I have found references to the "Customer Experience Improvement Program" being the root cause of this, but I have that disabled on my computer. This happens rarely enough that I'm not going to spend too much time on it, but I'm guessing it's related to my main problem here.) 

You should switch the Hyper-V VM to use a "legacy" network card, because there are often problems with the Kernel Modules (i.e. Device Drivers) to use Hyper-V's default network card. Here's how to do it: 

As @PeterT noted in the comments, the correct way to do this in chrome is using (and to force GPU rendering if it doesn't happen automatically). I just had a similar experience with a relative's HiDPI Sony VAIO. It isn't that these are "experiments" in Chrome, as much as just the fact that it is easier to enable them only on machines that require/support them. It would be nice to have the support for these features autodetected, but that isn't always so easy given the wide variety of hardware (and, more importantly, the wide variety of drivers) that are currently in use on different platforms. I doubt that the Microsoft applications has it enabled by default either - I would guess that it was enabled by Lenovo when they installed Windows on the machine. As far as Spotify goes, you are out of luck. Spotify does not have HiDPI support and does not seem to have any plans to release it any time soon. See these threads on the Spotify forum for more details. 

In the last few days I've noticed really poor performance on a virtual machine I'm using at work. It's running Windows Server 2003 SP 2. When I check Task Manager, the process wpffontcache_v0400.exe is consuming almost all of the CPU. What is wpffontcache_v0400.exe and how can I get it to not consume all of the CPU? When I kill the process it starts up again straight away. Sometimes it resumes to normal CPU usage, other times it just jumps back to 100% usage no how many times I kill it. 

Update I have had the problem happen again and so I have tried pinging the machines that are returning the public static IP address from a different machine on the network at the same time the problem is occurring. The pings were coming back with the correct addresses on the other machine. So it seems the incorrect IP address problem is only happening on the Win 7 PC. Also, after about 10 minutes of noticing the problem, pinging the machine names that were returning incorrect IPs suddenly started working correctly again without me fiddling with anything nor running . 

I have an old Sony Vaio PCG-TR3S that isn't running very well any more. It crashes a lot. I heard of Chromium OS Vanilla and decided to try running that on my old laptop by booting from a USB stick, but unfortunately it doesn't have USB as a boot option in BIOS. Is there a way that I can get the laptop to boot from USB? 

I haven't done this in quite a while, but years ago I have set up DSNs for an ODBC connection using Windows 2000 and maybe Windows XP. I remember there being a Data Sources or ODBC icon to click in Control Panel. I need to do the same in Windows 7 and Windows Server 2003 but I can't find any icon for a tool to do it in Control Panel. I also checked in Programs -> Accessories but couldn't find anything there either. I'm running 64 bit Windows 7. How do I set up DSNs in Windows 7 and Windows 2003 Server? 

In the future, I may get an iPad and a PS3. As you can see, it's a mix of devices with lots of different protocols supported between them. To date, I've usually used the Windows 7 machine as my primary device for playback of video and music using Windows Media Player. Sometimes I use the iPhone for listening to a subset of the music put on to the device using iTunes and for podcasts downloaded via iTunes. In the future I'd like to be able to play downloaded movies and TV shows on the Sony TV, either directly or via the XBox. I'd also like full access to my music from the iPhone as sometimes I connect it to a good sound system in another room of the house. Currently it only has access to whatever I synched via iTunes. I want to be able to have a central location to store all my media and allow it to be shared across the multiple devices. I'd like it to be simple to manage and simple to share/stream the content to the different devices. I've heard about things like an iTunes server, media center sharing, UPnP, DLNA, etc and am at a loss as how best to go about setting up a single repository that will support the different devices on my home network. What is the best approach for sharing media amongst multiple devices? 

Modern hard drives are supposed to make almost no noise (other than the spinning of the platters), so any noise is a red flag. To put it very bluntly, that sound means your hard drive is going to fail. It could be as soon as a week or, if you are very lucky, as long as 2-3 years, but it will almost definitely fail, likely sooner rather than later. While hard drive response times can vary widely in the real world (depending on the physical location in which the data is stored), extra slowness can often mean that the drive is failing because it has to work around its failures. Your best bet is to replace the hard drive now while you can still recover all your data. 

I am a volunteer doing tech support for a local school. One of the teachers tried to log in today and got a message that his password had expired and must be changed. That's expected, since our domain does require password changes. However, he tried changing his password, but each time just went right back to the "your password has expired and must be changed" message. As a temporary measure, because he needed to get in for class, I disabled password expiration for his account. However, I do want to re-enable it (even though I personally don't think it is necessary) because our official policy does say that passwords must be changed regularly. What could be causing this issue? What is the proper way to fix it? If it matters, the client computer is running Windows 8 Pro, and the server is on Windows Server 2003 (hopefully replacing with 2012 R2 soon, and redoing the entire system, but I still need an answer to this question). 

It is very easy to remove the "Notifications" permission from a website in Chrome, though the steps may vary depending on what version of Chrome you are using. Here's how to do it on the newest version (58 as of this writing): 

4. Customize the Ribbon As you use the ribbon, you will find that there are commands you tend to use more often than others. In Office 2010 and 2013 (not 2007), you can add and remove commands from the ribbon in the Options window. You can also export your customizations from there so you can import them into Word on another computer. That said, I don't recommend customizing the ribbon. The ribbon is so complex that you can easily get lost in customizing it or mess it up completely. Instead, you can customize the "Quick Access Bar". This bar can be set to be above or below the main ribbon and you can add any commands you need to it.