Basically, for transcoding, you want to have fast and large caches and/or many cores. You don't really need Error Code Correction (ECC), which is mostly available only with Xeon Processors. Some Xeon Processors in the E3 range do have iGPUs, these support Intel Quick Sync Video. Probably the best of all those processors should be the Broadwell based Xeon with eDRAM. Your can also read a review about this Xeon lineup processors at a respected site. These are not very easy to get, you could contact ixsystems.com for that. People like Alan Jude of BSDNOW.tv fame is a professional, who would be happy to talk to you about that I guess. This is in my opinion one of the best solutions to your problem. You could of course also use the Xeon D, which has 8 cores and is available with appropriate boards from Supermicro, Asrock, Gigabyte and others. In any case, I wouldn't use consumer processors for serious deployment unless you really know, what you are doing. But hey, then you wouldn't ask around at SuperUser. 

You should provide more detail. Anyway, check you have the right cable. Most of the time, you need a crossover cable, I have been bitten by this before. Also, the baud rate must match the expected baud rate of the device. Maybe tell us, what serial controller/ USB adapter and what device you use. 

The '#' sign means, you should be root. Substituting '#' with "sudo" will do on most systems. On others, use "su". 

That should at least get you a working system. You should maybe reinstall coreutils and in general be vary of any problems. You should backup your data and be cautious. 

This is important since most programs actually link to /bin/sh and many scripts have it in the shebang (#!) line. You should link to bash (for most people), or the shell you use (for those, who probably wouldn't delete the /bin directory anyway). 

If the TV has a sufficiently good web browser, you could try to download something from your NAS and measure the time taken. Your bandwidth is Data / Time. Synology should have a basic web server, I think it's name is "Web Station", to install from their "App Store". Over this, you could export a big file, such as a movie and download it from the TV. I think, your issue is, the TV can't handle the codecs too well. Maybe you have higher bandwidth movies, than the internal decoder on the TV supports without issue. Also it could be, the Synology NAS transcodes the movie as you stream it. This can be adjusted in the settings. Most Synology NAS offerings for the home are not very powerful when it comes to video real-time conversion, depends on your model. Mostly, very high quality videos will by far not saturate even a 100 Mbps link, which would be 10x slower than what your NAS offers and can realistically saturate (since hard drives are quite fast when transferring large data sequentially). I would check, what the TV can handle in the specifications for it. Maybe, the TV firmware can be updated as well. For the Synology, I would check, if it transcodes anything. If yes, try turning it off. If not, try to turn it on and play with the settings a bit. 

Now that VirtualBox 4 has been released, the entirety of VirtualBox is licensed under the GNU GPL. All the closed-source features in the older versions still exist, in the form of downloadable Extension Packs. These extension packs are licensed under the PUEL license. 

I have noticed that those strange symbols at the end change every time I try to run Compiz. The value of the environment variable DISPLAY is :0. Any ideas on why this may be happening? Thanks! (I'm not sure if this question is in the right place) 

I know that each program that can open files has a desktop entry under , and that the defaults for each mimetype are stored in and . On my system, the command that updates these lists is . However, I could not find an answer on google about how this program decides which application becomes default if there are multiple installed that can handle that file. I ask because when I installed Geany on my system recently, all source code files started opening in Geany, instead of in my regular text editor, and I was wondering how the choice to replace my regular editor with Geany was made. Also, I know that I can change each file back to my regular editor manually, but is there a way give a certain program default to all the types of files it can open? Essentially like Windows's default applications manager, where you can see all the filetypes any program can open, and select or deselect them all. I also know of the utility, but I that doesn't seem to be what chooses between multiple possible programs for opening a file, or for re-registering as default all the filetypes for a certain program. 

I decided that I would like Compiz 0.9 on my computer, which runs Ubuntu 10.10. I followed the instructions on this Compiz wiki page; some lines I changed. I now have compiled and installed Compiz core, libcompizconfig, compizconfig-python, ccsm, plugin pack 'main', and plugin pack 'extra'. Running the command in bash: 

I know that installing a package through APT (apt-get or aptitude for my computer) will automatically install the appropriate man pages and update the man database. When I want to build the same packages, however, no man page is installed and I cannot use man for that program. How do I get the man pages for software I have compiled? (I am running Ubuntu 10.10). 

When I'm at my desk at home, I connect to my network through my Ethernet LAN port. Sometimes however I have to get up and move my computer around (such as to connect it to a TV in another room), so I disconnect the Ethernet and enable the wifi. My problem however is that I want both the LAN and wifi interfaces to have the same static IP address in my network. Everything worked perfectly on Linux: I could set both interfaces to the same IP, same subnet mask, same default gateway, and same DNS provider. If I had Ethernet connected and wifi enabled at the same time, I would get martian packet messages in the system log, so I would just use the physical switch on the laptop to disable the wifi interface until I needed it. However, recently I've been configuring a new laptop that runs Windows 7. I wanted to do the same thing as I could do on Linux on the other laptop. After setting the static IP address, subnet mask, gateway and DNS for the Ethernet interface, I tried to do the same thing for the wifi interface, but I got first the warning that another interface already has the same IP address, and then I got the message about multiple default gateways as being intended to provide redundancy. I dismissed both warnings (No, then Yes) and clicked Close. But when I opened up the properties for the wifi interface again, the IP address and subnet mask fields were blank. Everytime I enter them, they are blank when I reopen the properties page. The Ethernet interface's properties page still has the same information. So basically my question is, how can I set this up properly without Windows blanking out the settings for the wifi interface? If it can work properly in Linux, why can't it work here? 

I'm writing bash shell scripts with Unix line endings using notepad++. However, the final line never contains a new line. I must manually create it by pressing "enter" and having a blank line in my document. How can I configure Notepad++ to always have a newline (line feed) at the end of all lines? 

I have been reading the rsync man page, but I'm not clear on whether I should use the --backup-dir option or the --copy-dest option I'll have a command similar to 

I have an old IDE drive with windows 7 installed on it. I disconnected that drive, and installed a new windows 7 to a new drive (SSD). I want to extract data from the old drive. However, the problem I am having is, when the drive is connected to MoBo, windows wants to boot from this drive. The BIOS is crap, and doesn't allow me to arrage the order of the various hard drives on the system. I want to stop this drive from booting. Can I erase the booting information on its partitions, or on or near the MBR. I, like many people, struggle to repair the windows booting information, not destroy it. I know I "could" use an external enclosure to read its data. But this is a good way to learn something new. I am familiar with GNU/Linux, so if there is a known method of using it to solve my issue, that will be fine. Thanks 

I installed Notepad++ 6.0 and the Explorer Plugin. When I right click a file in the side window, I don't get options for TortoiseSVN. When right clicking on a file in Windows Explorer, I do see options for TortoiseSVN. Any ideas on why this might be? 

I'm trying to determine if sed is faster reading from stdin (with shell redirection < ) or by specifying the file from which sed should read. I didn't find a definitive answer on Google. Which is faster? 

Puppet is a configuration management software which is capable of configuring a fleet of servers automatically by reading Puppet Manifests files. Such a file could include a definition of your /etc/sudoers file, which can then be pushed out to all your puppet "agents" from your puppet "master". Then all hosts will get the same copy of your /etc/sudoers file, which can (and should) include HOST definitions, so you can grant some users some commands on some hosts (but not on others). 

I'm trying to copy the contents of a series of directories non-recursively to another remote system. 

server1 has a filename.tgz and I need to copy it to server2. I would like to keep daily copies on server2, like: 

For additional reference, here is a nice website that fairly good list of commands available for cmd.exe: $URL$ 

The is an argument to . You should run the command . You can run to get more help about the different arguments to . 

I have noticed that the window menu for most windows look like standard menus, while the window menu for the command processor (cmd.exe) look different. I assumed that cmd.exe was providing custom-made menus, until I started seeing the same type of menu in Chrome. Here are two images: Standard Menu Different Menu Here are two more images: Standard Menu in Chrome Different Menu in Chrome Right clicking anywhere on a webpage opened in Chrome brings up a menu similar to the "different menu". What causes these two styles of windows? I am running Windows Vista 32-bit. Thanks! By The Way: I also have a Windows 7 64-bit computer. On that computer, cmd.exe's window menu is the "Standard" one, not "Different". It seems Microsoft must have fixed it. I haven't seen how the Chrome menu looks on Win7 64-bit yet. Edit: I have now figured out what the problem was. The problem was the way the menu items were being added and removed. I found when I disabled AdBlock: Chrome's menus went back to the "Standard" style. So I am asking now, more specifically, what causes this change? What legacy or backwards-compatible code causes this to happen? (I will put it in a new question on StackOverflow if need be.) 

I too was having the same problem. All I can recommend is to make sure you are running the latest beta, and upgrade the graphics drivers. Also try clearing your cookies and your cache. Beyond that, all that can be said is that it is a beta product and not likely to work correctly. You should, of course, send feedback using thefeedback button on the right side of the window. 

How does Compiz automatically decide which windows should be sticky (i.e. should be visible on all workspaces)? Windows such as gnome-panel and cairo-dock always stay on the visible workspace, without requiring additional configuration. How does Compiz figure this out? Thanks! 

Assuming you are asking about symlinking executables in general, this should automatically work out of the box. Make sure /usr/bin/nodejs is executable by everybody, and restart the terminal. In any case, calling directly from anywhere in a terminal should work normally. If appears to execute properly but NodeJs itself does not like being called as instead of , that's a different problem. 

to start CompizConfig Settings Manager works and CCSM works beautifully. When I attempt to start Compiz itself, however, I get this: 

I want to transfer directories and files under 'company?' non-recursively. This (so far) appears to do what I am after: 

I download all files in remote dir1/. They are downloaded to a directory which contains hundreds of files. I need to copy the file to a remote "archive" directory. I need to delete the file from dir1/ (above). 

I had to add a static route to my wireless router BACK to the 192.168.2.0/24 network via 192.168.1.103 (laptop). Now windows can browse web via lappy! SOLVED 

try the Chrono extension for chrome. In Options there is a field which lets you change the simultaneous number of downloads. $URL$ 

Using vim (or vi) I want to align the sections with to the same column number. What's the easiest and fastest way to do this? (ignore the ugly bits for now) 

I'm having trouble finding a way to transfer a file from dir1/file to dir2/ using sftp protocol. I"ve tried because I need to provide password non-interactively, and public/private keys aren't available for me. 's is available, but it requires public/private key auth. I cannot use 's , , or . In the man page, seems promising: 

dir1, dir2, and dir3 contain many directories that I do not want copied. Copy on the remote host to /dirB maintaining the same directory structure. I tried: 

But authentication fails (assume "no password"). Because I am using the same server, it would be nice if just used the same credentials that I am currently using to log into the current server. But alas... Is there a way to use a password for command? Is there a better way to do this? I do not believe that is helpful here... If it helps, I believe that the SFTP server is a Windows box. 

I'm trying to sync a large tree on Linux, but include and exclude certain files/directories. My question is regarding rsync's --relative option and how relative paths are handled. Directory structures appear something like: 

It can be done with other tools, but I am interested to know how can I delete all but the last X lines of the file with . 

has -C, --directory DIR: change to directory DIR. Does pax have something similar? This can be useful for backing up directory structures/hierarchies in a relative fashion, such as , instead of , or restoring from inside a directory other than $TARGET_DIR. I normally use pax in ustar (default) format, or sometimes cpio. 

edit: I want to extra and and directory contains directory with 20 files. I want to extract only member and and directory and copy them to another "remote_host" using ssh/scp. Can this be done as a one-liner? I considered using , , or but I guess I'm not very skilled with these utilities yet.