I had some issues last time I updated VirtualBox. I installed the update without issues as a limited user, but I was not able to use 64 bit neither more than one core after that. Try running the installer again as Administrator. 

There is an option under the tab which toogles matching if a keepass entry's title is contained in the target window title which you can turn off to avoid that behabiour (at least under keepass 2.x, I do not longer have 1.x installed so I cannot confirm there is such option in the older version) Nevertheless, that could render most of your auto-type features disabled if you do not customize each entry to have a , so you might need to modify most of your entries. A workaround could be changing your google's title to be "My main Google account" (or whatever you like) to avoid the matching in "Google Chrome" and keep the option I mentioned early enabled (you may still need to add (s) to match your google's entry. 

Do not execute the tar where you want the tar file to be created, but from the directory you want to tar: 

Start Chrome and Open the Chrome Menu Go to Settings > Extensions (On the left hand side) Delete all of the extensions that you haven't installed by pressing the trash button on the right. 

Open Device Manager Expand the Battery category and Right Click > Uninstall the Microsoft ACPI Compliant Control Method Battery listing. Click the Scan for Hardware (last one to the right) button in the taskbar. 

First of all try Pressing these key combinations. If that works, you're set! If not, the easiest way to do this is through the Windows built-in Screen Resolution Control Panel Window. Otherwise the graphics card control panel can be used as well. By the hotkey (CTRL+ALT+Arrow), I can tell that you either have Intel or NVIDIA graphics card and its corresponding software. All these methods are explained in detail below. Right click your desktop to determine which graphics card you have. If you have an Intel graphics card, there will be a context menu displaying Graphics Properties. If you have a NVIDIA grpahics card, there will be a context menu displaying NVIDIA Control Panel. If you have an AMD grpahics card, there will be a context menu displaying AMD Catalyst Control Center. Windows Built-In Feature 

Set on your client's (I'm assuming it is the same machine as the stunnel, if not, use the correspondig IP) this new line: 

EDIT: If it is a home setup, quickest solution for that case is moving the "public" Virtual Host to the top, so any connection defaults for that site. Remember that for a NameVirtualHost you will have always a "default" VirtualHost if the Host header is not present or does not match any of your configured Names/Alias (the first VirtualHost defined for that IP) Also, I would configure the ServerName directives to the value you are asigning to each ServerAlias and not using ServerAlias in your case. ServerName is intended to distinguish between which VirtualHost should be used if you set up a NameVirtualHost, so having the same value in all ServerName is not doing any good. ServerAlias is used to mark additional names (for example, Note that if your coworkers edit their and add entries like , , etc, they would get any site on your web server. You could block that with , and directives, but entries with error code 403 would still appear on your access_log. 

If you use key, it should try to auto-complete. So if you type and , it will expand into , and into , etc 

you should be able to technically see the uninstall button. If you don't find the string than the program's registry was edited and the uninstall string doesn't exists. This could be caused by malicious content or as a result of program not being installed properly. IT could also be that you're not logged into to the admin account or the account that installed those applications. Most of the icons for the programs are not shown so my best guess would be that they have been uninstalled improperly. Solution You can either find each program's msi, exe and uninstall it using the proper switch but this option will take lots of time and research for each program that you would like to uninstall. For example to uninstall uTorrent, you would either create a batch file or open up a command prompt screen and paste this line: 

Try and change the Power Option settings for the "When I close the Lid:" to Do Nothing under the Plugged in Category. 

Can I see your excel sheet data that you're trying to use auto fill on? You basically just have to create a formula once and you can use the autofill feature to use the formula with the other data sets. So if you have multiple columns of data, you first create a new row that contains average, another that contains minimum, and another that contains the maximum. To get these values simple click on the arrow next to the AutoSum feature in the top right corner of the HOME tab and choose the respective calculation. After that is done for one column, you can use the autofill feature by selecting the three column cells and use the fill handle in the bottom right corner of the selected cells. This should use the same formulas on the other columns of data. Example: 

I have a fairly large MP3 collection, that I would like to upgrade to a music video collection. Basically what I want to do is go through all my songs and find matching music videos. I plan on doing final approval of the video myself, so no auto-replacing of files. I know some music is available on artists' official channels on YouTube or other similar sites. Is there an easy way for the computer to scan my music collection and find music videos matching my metadata? Or am I doomed to do this by hand? EDIT: I am using Windows 7. 

I have a USB hard drive that I'm planning on donating. Before I donate it, however, I want to be sure that it has been completely and unrecoverably wiped of personal information. Darik's Boot-and-Nuke works for a built-in drive, but not for USB. Is there anything that will wipe an external USB? I'm looking for something that will run from either Vista or from a boot CD. 

The environment variables are different. The program is able to detect how it is started. The icon you clicked on the desktop actually has some property settings attached. 

Ok, since you have specified that none of this works, I would assume it is a virus/malware/adware on your computer that is hidden onto your computer either in temporary folders or inside ProgramData (Most probable). I would recommend scanning your computer with Malwarebytes and to remove all suspicious files that is finds. After that restart you computer and run the rootkit removal tool, TDSSKiller. Restart your computer once again and re-run both of the software again to double check all of the traces have been removed. Let me know how it works out. Let me know how it went and what you found out to be that cause or if you still need more help. 

Control Panel > System and Security > Action Center On the left hand corner, click Change User Account Control settings. Drag the slider to Never notify (all the way at the bottom). 

Navigate to: Copy the Favorites folder and paste it on the desktop. Navigate to your current user folder: Delete your Favorites folder (WARNING: This will delete ALL your current favorites) Cut and Paste the Favorites folder from your desktop to this directory (). 

From what you have described it is most likely your PSU that has gone bad. You can do a simple test to check your PSU at your own risk. All you need is a paperclip that you will need to reshape. WARNING: Do not try to insert the paperclip while the power cord or switch is turned on and do not touch the paperclip while the power is on. 

NOTE: actually my excel is in another language with different decimal separator, so it looks like this: 

As for your last question, in your example (assuming empty rules before those commands) you are setting a first rule and a second rule that would accept traffic from a certain network. IPTABLES grabs a match as soon as it can, so the first rule always matches (no condition set) so every rule after that won't execute. Exceptions to a rule must be defined before the rule. In the first example , you are setting a last rule that will catch whatever was not matched before, so any exception added will be executed before that default rule (). inserts into a certain position (for example, in my previous command, I am setting the ESTABLISHED,RELATED rule to be the first so it matches no matter what you set after that. appends to the rule list, so if will be matched just before the default. If you want to achieve the same as the first example with explicit rules (like ), you should exchange possitions of those. 

Problem is with the part. Most servers does not respond if you use as its name. How to resolve this: first, do a nslookup on the server you want to reach and choose one of the multiple IP, i.e. (not a true Google IP, just made it up) Configure your stunnel.conf to point to that IP: 

Extract the Driver folder onto the desktop. Right click the Setup.exe file and Open its properties. Click the Compatibility tab. Check the "Run this program in compatibility mode for:" and make sure the the "Windows 7" option is selected from the dropdown list. 

Open Device Manager Expand the Network adapters Right click on the adapter and click properties. Open the Details tab. Change the Property dropdown to Hardware Ids Note the VEN_XXXX, X is the 4 digit hexadecimal value for the vendor's ID. Match the ID below to find what brand your network adapter is. 

UAC could be an issue here. Or it you didn't install the software from this account, it could be that you are not the "owner" of this software. Try disabling UAC by going to Action Center and changing the user account control settings to never notify. 

The network admins for your organization should know what group they need to add you in. By the sound of it, would most likely be the group that you need to be added into but you can be added to any of those groups to get access (I doubt they would add you to the Administrators group though). Once added to the group, you should be able to easily view the . 

I am required to make a presentation for a class. I am given 30 minutes give this presentation. I need to give my approximate timings to my instructors prior to beginning the class. If I go over time, I will be cut off and lose marks. For my layout, I will have two screens - one with the presentation and one with my notes. I would like to set up a timer on my notes screen, large enough that I will be able to see it by only glancing at the screen. Bonus points if the timer can give me an indication if I am going too fast or too slow (based on my time per slide) EDIT I forgot to mention that this is an issued computer; I am not able to install software. I may be able to run plugins (I haven't tried) or a VBA script. 

I have a fairly large collection of music, some of which I have ripped at different times with different software. Through all my updates and additions to my collection, I have ended up with a mixture of file formats. Through the magic of MusicBrainz, I have organized all my music into a Artist/Album/Title.fmt directory structure. What I want is to find files where Artist/Album/Title are the same, but .fmt (.mp3, .ogg, .wma, etc) is different. Basically, I want to get a list of duplicate songs that differ only by file extension. If it makes a difference, I'm on Windows 7. 

With that configuration, from your public IP they would only get contents from the VirtualHost with IP 192.168.0.112 

is a server-wide keyword, so there should be a single instance of it per proccess (usually a single instance per Linux server). Assuming typical Debian installation, you can just grep the values: 

Two completely different protocols. FTPS is FTP with SSL for security. It uses a control channel and opens new connections for the data transfer. As it uses SSL , it requires a certificate. SFTP (SSH File Transfer Protocol / Secure File Transfer Protocol) was designed as an extension of SSH to provide file transfer capability, so it usually uses only the SSH port for both data and control. In most SSH server installations you will have SFTP support, but FTPS would need an aditional configuration of a supported FTP server. 

EDIT: step by step guide, as requested by comments: NOTE: my GIMP version is not in english, so I'm guessing the name of the menus. If looking for a "blocky" look (big pixels): 

I wrote this, I hope this is what you needed. It's not a , but it uses only common programs present in most UNIX boxes. Adjust time as needed. I would use a value of at least 2 seconds. Use for non-recursive structure or to search recursively. Note that in the last case, you will get a prefix to all files and directories. 

This should work 100% of the time. If it doesn't, you may have got malicious content on your anti-malware bytes. EDIT: This is an issue with you not being recognized as an admin. You need to confirm your account is listed in the Administrators group. You can do this by following these steps. 

Are you sure it is a new laptop? Either way, I would go with the first option since it would be running at a higher speed and after 4 GB of ram it doesn't really help that much. If you need that extra RAM (ex. if you run a lot of high-end programs simultaneously) then the second option is fine but as I pointed out in the comments it will decrease the speed. It just depends on what you want to do. For normal operations such as browsing and running MS office software, and Photoshop, 4gb of ram is fine. 

Basically the first part of the line points to the exe (either the uninstaller or the program itself - depending on the program itself) or the msi file. then uses the switch /uninstall. This is where the research comes in since the every program has a different format syntax and switch. The easiest and by far the fastest way would be if you install Revo Uninstaller. This is a great free software that helps removing all traces of any and all programs installed on your computer. It works much better than the built-in windows programs and feature and it keeps tracks of all files that a program installs so you have the piece of mind when removing software.