Then I tried taking the advice playing with DISKPART, but I got lost with MBRs and GPTs and UEFI, and I just CAN'T make my "Unallocated Spaces" become one unallocated space. Right now, I am stuck with: 

OK, So when I use RDC (Remote Desktop Connection) to connect to a remote machine, the screen is full of random black areas. The way I managed to resolve this was by unchecking , as illustrated here: 

I bought a brand new machine and I wanted to install Windows 8.1 on a single 4TB HDD. I want to partition the drive using the following layout: 

Notice the added space, i.e. a gap, between the bottom of the screen and the bottom line of the rectangle around the Google Chrome icon. The height of the toolbar should remain the same as in the first screenshot. It appears that the programmers at Microsoft were not very meticulous while designing the Windows 7 UI here; it is obviously a bug. I was wondering if there is a registry hack to fix this or if anyone knows any solution to the problem, except for the obvious one: "use the small icons"? Thanks. 

In Windows you can edit your system's environment variables by opening up the system properties window by navigating to Control Panel\System and Security\System --> and clicking on "Advanced system settings" in the left pane. Then click on "Environment Variables". My prefered method is to just do a start menu -- or metro screen search -- by typing "environment". You are usually given a choice of editing the "account" variables, or the "system's". Find the variable in question and edit/delete as you wish. Only do this if you are sure of the consequences. 

I have just updated Windows 7 to Windows 10. My touchpad scolling (right-side) is not working anymore. I have no idea how to fix this in Windows 10. I have hit the start button and typed "synaptic", but have found nothing useful. I used to have an icon on the taskbar that showed where I was touching the touchpad. I used to be able to right-click that icon to change settings, but Windows 10 has not brought that icon over. Also, the asus website has no synaptic touchpad drivers available for Windows 10. I have tried the enaltech drivers, but upon the installation atempt I am told that my hardware is not correct. 

Create a new Virtual Machine on your Hyper-V. Install Windows 7 from a DVD or an ISO file, whatever makes you happy. On the final reboot of the install, you will, of course, get the above mentioned black screen. Reboot the VM, but this time press a key to boot from the Windows 7 DVD (or boot from your ISO) so that you can get into the repair mode (recovery console/DOS prompt). Type to go to the C (boot) drive of your Windows 7 VM. Type the following command at the recovery console DOS prompt: 

This same issue occurs when I open a Hyper-V VM console, and to manage that it is necessary not to use . This is set up in the and . This is what the screen looks like with enhanced session mode: 

@Bill, you're right. The problem was related to the fact that when I prepared my USB drive for Windows installation, I didn't make the UEFI compatible partition. I couldn't do it even if I wanted to, because I used Windows 7 USB DVD Download Tool which doesn't support this. So now, I used Rufus instead, changed the UEFI/BIOS settings so that it boots from UEFI partition and the installation was a breeze. Installer made those partitions it needed, like system reserved and recovery, I set the size of what will later become a C: drive and was able to use the rest for my second partition. Thanks man, you led the way! 

then: You may have to restart the system. Also the terminal program "wicd-curses" is very useful, you may want to install that to manage wireless access. 

Adjusting your BIOS settings is probably going to fix this. Try to get into your BIOS before it goes to the grub rescue prompt by mashing f8 or DEL or f2 or maybe f12 (depends on your machine) after you reboot. It may take a couple tries, just keep restarting/mashing until you get in there. Then look for something along the lines of "boot priority" and move your DVD drive to the top of the list. Hit f10 to save and exit and BIOS should pass control to your Vista disk. 

Save the text below into a .reg file using notepad and double-click on it. Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00 [HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\Python.File\shell\Edit with IDLE\command] @="\"C:\Python34\pythonw.exe\" \"C:\Python34\Lib\idlelib\idle.pyw\" -e \"%1\"" [HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\Python.NoConFile\shell\Edit with IDLE\command] @="\"C:\Python34\pythonw.exe\" \"C:\Python34\Lib\idlelib\idle.pyw\" -e \"%1\"" If you are using Python27 change the "34"s above to "27"s. Restart your computer. 

Backup your original /etc/network/interfaces file and try this one instead. This sets everything to static(unchanging). You will have to restart your interfaces with ifdown/ifup or just restart the computer. 

I have a Dell U2713hm which comes with USB 3.0 ports. My desktop box is around 15 meters away from the monitor. I managed to connect the two via very long DisplayPort cable, but I cannot find a USB 3.0 cable which is that long. So, is there a way to establish the connection between the monitor and the desktop so that I can use my USB ports on the monitor? I was thinking wireless, but if you also know of another method, e.g. via Ethernet cable, please share how. Thanks! 

I cannot accomplish this. First of all, Windows Setup has split my HDD into two "Unallocated Spaces". Secondly, even if I go with this (which is not what I want nor find acceptable), it cannot format the second "Unallocated Space (1678GB)" and it shows the error 

If you add a custom toolbar in the Windows 7 taksbar and set the toolbar view to Large Icons (and the icons in the toolbar are not set to Use small icons), the height of the taskbar unexpectedly increases by around 5 pixels, which makes a rather stupid gap at the bottom of the screen. If the option Use small icons is used for the taskbar appearance, the height of the taskbar is normal. The normal situation, when there is no custom toolbar and the toolbar height is 40 pixels: 

Open a command prompt in order to configure your 'cleanmgr' settings and enter: "cleanmgr /sageset:999" this will open a one-time settings window which will associate the '999' to the specific settings that you want the command to have You can choose any number you want from 0-65535. Check the combo box options that you want to implement for your customized disk cleanup operation. This will create a registry link and will save your settings for future use. The registry settings may take a few minutes to become active. A reboot will reload the registry for you with more assurance. Then open Task Scheduler and select "Create Basic Task" from the actions pane. Give the task a name such as "my_cleanup". Add a description if you want to. Select the trigger (when it will run) that you want. You can add multiple triggers after the task is created. Select "Start a program" in the action window. Enter 'cleanmgr' into the Program/Script textfield and 'sagerun:999' into the "Add arguments (optional)" textfield. The program will not need any user input when it runs because the settings are saved into the registry from when you ran the sageset argument. Further reading can be found at cleanmgr info and at this microsoft page. 

How do I execute SUMPRODUCT of Rate columns (H, M and R) with Hrs columns (I, N and S)? The goal is to get , i.e. a total cost for all resources which is $8,885 (same as G3+L3+Q3). I know how to isolate one specific column (e.g. ) but I am struggling with being able to multiply and then add values from specific columns. 

Drive 0 Partition 1: System Reserved - whatever the default size is, 350MB Drive 0 Partition 2: for Windows - 240GB Drive 0 Partition 3: for storage - 4TB minus 350MB minus 240GB 

When I start the machine, the fans start spinning (the one on the processor is really loud) for a few seconds, then it shuts down and then it starts again continuing to boot normally. What could be the cause of this (I am assuming this is not normal)? 

While these solutions do solve my immediate issue, which is not to have those pesky black rectangles, I wonder what could be the cause of this, and, more importantly, is there a way to resolve this issue without turning off enhanced session mode in Hyper-V, as I am really benefiting from the functionality it brings? Thanks!