If you have an old PS2 Keyboard and mouse, you can use a dual PS2 to USB adapter to allow them to share one USB port. Here is an example of one of these adapters from MonoPrice: 

The first 12 Raspberry Pi Model A boards were auctioned off on eBay during the Twelve Pis of Christmas in December of 2012, with the proceeds going to various charities. Adafruit started stocking the model A on April 29, 2013. The Model A+ was announced and made available for sale on November 10, 2014. 

Raspbian claims to have "35,0000 Raspbian packages", which is great, but I'm only looking for a package or two before I install it. Is there a browsable repository package list that I can search with a web browser without being on the device itself? If there isn't a browser-friendly method, is there a way to download the package lists and browse through some other method? 

With the Logitech K700 (Logitech Revue) wireless keyboard/trackpad combo, is there any way to emulate the function keys (F1-F12)? EmulationStation, which is the frontend for RetroPie, uses function keys to exit games and perform some other important system functions. I'll take as much info as I can get about making this keyboard/trackpad work better with the Pi. 

I found the solution in this thread. By adding (underlined cursor) or (block cursor) to my user's login script in TTY works again as normal. 

I'm using Plymouth boot splash on Raspbian Lite with great success, using this guide. By adding in it hides the blinking cursor during the boot sequence. Great! However now (of course) I don't have a blinking cursor when using local or SSH TTY. Is there a way to bring back the cursor once the system has completed booting? 

Maybe. A media centre and web server will operate fine together on any system, and this will be true for most combinations you can imagine. I'll run through my considerations when asking myself the same question... Conflicts Some media centres offer an HTTP-based remote control service which, when enabled, might try to use port 80 (which the web server will already be using) but this should be simple enough to change. Ports 81 or 8080 are common alternatives - the latter because it doesn't require root permission to acquire. Load / performance This depends how complex a website and how much traffic it will be expected to handle. A simple web server serving flat HTML files and assets uses hardly any processing power. Small websites can be cached in RAM reducing disk access. A Wordpress or Drupal site will require dependencies such as a database server, PHP server, caching layers and so on which need a lot of disk access, CPU time and potentially memory too. The media centre will also be heavy on disk access, and memory/CPU while you browse the UI, but most of the work will be done by the video decoder. Chances are the media centre is using an SQLite or similar database which you could share. Using a front-end cache or Cloudflare will reduce load also. Security Last but foremost in my mind. Is it acceptable to have your video and music collections on a server accessable from the Internet? Yes probably. In fact your media centre software will perform much better when connected. Be aware your Pi will receive undesirable attention, especially with a domain name pointing at it. Forward only the ports you require through your router, run a firewall, secure your SSH server, use only private/public keys for authentication and look up port knocking :) 

OK, so it can run for 10.7 minutes at 160 Watts. That means it has a capacity of (10.7 / 60) * 160 = 28.53 Watt-Hours. (High draw applications will decrease the amount of time it'll last faster, because of how batteries work. Note that the "at full load" number isn't half the value of "at half load". Therefore, pick the statistic that's closest to our target draw, which is very small for the Pi.) Let's say the Pi draws 1 Amp at 5 Volts. That's 5 Watts draw. (Your Pi is probably a bit lower than that, but there's some inefficiencies in the various conversions, so this'll work for now.) OK, 28.53 Watt-Hours, 5 Watts. 28.53 Wh / 5 W = 5.7 Hours. The UPS I linked above should be able to power your Pi for around 5.7 hours. Now, let's approach this math from the other side: The Pi draws 5 Watts. If you want a full day, that's 24 * 5 = 120 Watt-Hours. We need to find a UPS that has at least 120 Wh of capacity. Here's a larger UPS: CyberPower Intelligent LCD Series CP1500AVRLCD 1500VA 900W. 

The UPS you chose doesn't list their exact times, so there's no way to calculate how long it will last under a given load. I'll run through the calculation for a couple different UPSs, so you can repeat it on one of your choice. I'm going to use this UPS, which has a similar wattage rating as the one you chose: CyberPower EC650LCD ECO 650VA/390W. The specs on that page list the following: 

Usually, no. As far as I know an LCD panel requires a driver chip or board to convert input signals for display, and many manufacturers/models use a different driver chip. Plus a linux-compatible software driver compiled for the RPi is needed to communicate with it. All this is possible but time-consuming and outside of my knowledge. I have had great success taking apart old portable TVs though (be careful of the high voltage parts) and using the screen + driver board on my RPi. If the driver board accepts HDMI input or RCA video then it's just a matter of making up a lead. Alternatively there are small LCD panels and even touchscreens available to buy online, which can interface with the RPi's DSI (Display Serial Interface) ribbon connector or I2C/GPIO pins. 

I discovered I can use the keyboard combination CTRL+Alt+Fn (F1-F7) to switch between different virtual terminals. Only the first terminal (F1) will automatically login, so I can use different credentials on the others. However I don't think this is documented behaviour. I believe that service file should run on all virtual terminals and not just the first one, so if behaviour changes in the future then this guide for Arch might be relevant: 

When I try with a long MP3 it works fine. When I add silence to the start and end of the beep file it also plays normally. Unfortunately the sound needs to be instant and short (as a touchscreen "tap" notification). What's causing this, and is there a fix? Edit: I also tried playing the beep through a web audio component using chromium-browser. The first beep is ignored, subsequent beeps seem to work fine. After a few minutes of no activity its silent again. Is an HDMI audio channel closing/opening somehow? Can I force it to remain open?