In the Windows Event Viewer, I noticed many events of type 5038 "System Integrity", with the following text: 

I would like to install a transparent proxy with content filtering (such as Squid) on my Siemens ADSL SL2-141 router, such that all requests in my home network are automatically routed through the proxy, without having to install the proxy on each computer and each browser. I looked in the API of the router and haven't found any setting that looks like "proxy". Here is the list of commands I see when I telnet into the router: 

I have a hard-drive of WD MyCloud EX2 connected to my wifi. I know its address should be something like 10.0.0.X. But I do not know what is X. How do I find it? 

My BenQ screen looks unsharp and grainy. I downloaded a new driver from BenQ site, but I don't know how to install it. Windows Vista's hardware manager shows "Generic PnP monitor". How to install my downloaded driver? 

Why am I getting these errors? And what should I do to be able to connect to the http server from both the same computer and other computers in the network? UPDATES: Based on the comments and answers, here is some more information: 

Often, when I open HTML files on my C drive with Internet Explorer, I get a message saying that IE has blocked some ActiveX controls in the page. I then have to click a button to see the page. How can I cancel this "feature"? I tried to go to Internet Properties -> Security -> Local Intranet and change the security settings to "low", but it didn't help. 

EDIT: I now noticed that the link http : // 65.55.206.228 hangs in Chrome and Lynx (as expected), but it does open on Firefox. 

I always turned off Action Center in Windows 7 - is there anything new in Windows 8 worth keeping it around for? 

By default, a fresh install of Google Chrome will place an entry on the Start Screen that when clicked will open the Modern UI/Metro version of Chrome. This is frustrating, as I want to have it open in my desktop. Is there any way to fix this? 

Is it possible for me to just copy a codec file into a directory without having to install some janky codec pack filled with all kinds of nonsense? I just want to be able to play MKV files without running some type of installation executable. 

Check out the graph of this drive (SSD) to drive (7200 RPM) copy below. When I first started the file copy it bursted up to past 700 MB/sec. Then, after bursting, it flatlines at ~100 MB/s for the duration of the file. How is it able to burst so high? 

I installed cleanly using Boot Camp on my MacBook Air and managed to install Boot Camp Control Panel without any problems. My screen brightness, keyboard brightness, and volume function keys all work great, except I no longer get the indicator on the screen showing the levels of those options. Does anyone know how to fix this? 

Go into Mac OS X and create a fresh driver disc for Windows 7 After installing Windows 8, copy the files from the Boot Camp driver disc onto your Windows 8 partition Download Orca, an MSI editor from here: $URL$ Use Orca to open up BootCamp64.msi. Delete the conditions out of from the section called "LaunchConditions". Tools -> Options, find the Database tab on the right. Check the box for “Copy embedded streams during Save As”. Save your modified MSI with Orca. 

I enabled IP filtering on my Siemens ADSL SL2-141 router, and added a single rule blocking Google's homepage address 212.179.180.117: 

My connection to gmail is very slow and I am trying to understand why. Running traceroute gives the following output: 

I just bought a new ASUS laptop with Windows 8 installed on it in a well-known store. I didn't get and CD of Windows 8, nor any written license attesting that I am the legal owner of that Windows 8 installation. My questions: 

Back in the early days of the Internet, when 56K modems were considered state-of-the-art, when the modem was disconnected I could still freely browse the pages that I recently visited because they were kept in the browser's cache. Now, I cannot find this option, at least not in Firefox. The Internet was disconnected due to a storm, and I tried to open a Wikipedia page I visited just yesterday, but Firefox could not open it. I tried "File -> Offline mode", but this didn't help: I got a page showing the message "Firefox is currently in offline mode and can't browse the Web." Is there a way to make Firefox automatically cache pages I visit, so that I can visit them again without Internet connection? 

While looking for a new laptop, I found out that the CPUs in laptops are usually less powerful (in terms of speed) than in desktops. As an illustration, in one store I was offered a choice between a desktop with core i7 6700 and a laptop with core i7 6500U. Here is a detailed comparison between these CPUs. In general, the 6700 is much faster, but the 6500U has much lower power-consumption. Another example is core i3 6320 vs. core i3 6100U: the former is faster while the latter uses much less power. I intend to use the laptop at home, and only occasionally outside. So, I prefer a laptop with the faster CPU. However, in the cases I take it outside, I do want to be able to tell it to act slower and with less power consumption. Is it possible to construct a laptop with high-speed CPU like i3 6320, and then occasionally tell it to "behave like i3 6100U"? EDIT: I intend to install Ubuntu on the laptop. I do not know if this is relevant for the question. 

I'm trying to organize all of my apps in Windows 8, and I have run into a problem where I can't seem to figure out how to move the shortcuts for Windows 8 apps downloaded from the Windows Store. They don't seem to have any shortcuts in these locations: 

Is this level of customization exposed to the user? I know you can rename shortcuts by going to the Start Menu folder. 

I'm trying to add a folder to my start screen using symbolic links. I can't seem to get any linked folders to show up. Here is what I tried first: 

Is there a link I can put in my dock that will minimize every window and just show the desktop? Or, can this be accomplished with a keyboard shortcut? 

Turns out it is 64 - found this out by deleting the value, restarting the dock, clicking on the resizing area but not dragging it, letting go, and then checking the value. 

I recently installed a copy of Windows 8 on a computer that didn't have connectivity, so I ended up creating an account that was not associated with a Windows Live ID. I am able to see all of the applications that come stock with Windows 8, and update them. What are some of the benefits or drawbacks of logging in with an online account? Will I be able to use that same online account, even if I don't have connectivity? 

I didn't use a password when I used puttygen to create the private key, so I just press OK. And then I get this error: 

This customization would be nice. Is this possible out of the box, and if not, could a developer modify the start screen to make it possible? 

I am working on an article with colorful drawings, but because it will be printed on black-and-white printers, I want to make sure it looks good without colors. I have Ubuntu and currently use Evince to view the paper (in Postscript or PDF format). Is there a way to tell Evince to show me the paper as it would look like when printed on a black-and-white printer? Alternatively, is there a different PS/PDF viewer that can do this? 

On the other hand, when I try the same from another computer in the same network, I get a different error "No route to host": 

I had a DVD and I copied it to my Ubuntu computer. It created a VIDEO_TS folder. Now I copied this folder to my new Windows 8 computer. How can I view the video? I don't see any video player to which I can drag that folder. 

But, it seems to have no effect: I can still access this IP address from my browser. What am I doing wrong? EDIT: I changed the settings based on the answers, but it still doesn't work: 

I installed Dropbox on my Windows machine, and when I first launched it, it asked me to enter my username and password. There was no checkbox asking whether I want Dropbox to remember my username and password, so I assume it is remembered by default. Is there a way to change this default behaviour so that Dropbox does not login automatically when I log into my account? 

I have a home network using a Siemens SL2-141 ADSL router. Is there a way to tell the router to allow only specific websites, for example, to protect kids using the computers from harmful sites? I found out that this router can be accessed via telnet, and I found commands to start/stop the ADSL connection, but, I haven't found a way to allow or block specific websites. 

Just installed Windows 8, pinned Notepad to the start screen. When I press the Windows key and use the Notepad tile to run Notepad, it will focus on the currently open Notepad window. I'd like it to start a new instance of Notepad. Is this possible? 

I'd like to remove the tile shown below, without uninstalling the program. It doesn't seem like it is an actual folder that can be removed - maybe it is a registry key? 

I have a chair that I have loved, but it is getting old. I want to get a new chair that is the exact same make and model. Unfortunately, there is absolutely no identifying information on the chair as to who the manufacturer is or where it even came from. Is there a tool online or service I could utilize to find the origin of this chair? 

The junction link didn't work either. My heart tells me it must be a permissions issue. Can anybody help? EDIT: I tried changing the permissions on the folder to make the owner of the folder in Google Drive to "SYSTEM", but it didn't fix it. 

You can now run your modified BootCamp64.msi on Windows 8 and everything will install as expected. After rebooting, you can use the Boot Camp Control Panel in the task bar to modify your keyboard and trackpad settings. Windows 8 runs like a dream on my MacBook Air! Here's a pic: 

I'm trying to export lines 100 to 1,000,100 from a file with 62 million lines. So far I've found this command: 

I have a ton of photos (50GB+) that I would like to upload into Google+ Photos. Using the upload tool is very painful, as I have to go into each folder and drag and drop the pictures into the upload dialog and pray that the browser doesn't crash. Is there an easier way? 

I just bought an ASUS laptop with Windows 8 installed. How can I access the BIOS? I tried to click any of the usual keys during power-up: ESC, DEL, F10, F8, F2... non of them work - I just get to Windows. How can I determine the correct key? Do I have to just restart my laptop over and over again, trying each of the keys on my keyboard, until the BIOS shows up? 

In my work computer, I like to stay logged into my email accounts, Facebook etc. However, I am concerned that someone might get into my computer when I am away (e.g. an administrator can log into my computer even if I lock or logout), open a web browser, and thus access to my email and Facebook without even having to know my passwords. Is there a way to add a startup password to browsers (particularly Firefox and Chromium), such that this simple hack will not be possible? In Firefox there is "Master Password", but it seems to protect only the passwords saved within Firefox, e.g., if a hacker tries to login from Firefox to my email account, he will not have Firefox automatically fill the password. But, if I am already logged in to my email account in Firefox, it doesn't even ask for my password so this doesn't help. 

I had an Amazon EC2 instance with EBS only disk - 8 GB disk. I needed some more space so I increased the volume to 320 GB. Then, I no longer needed all that space so I wanted to decrease the volume, but saw that it is impossible to decrease a volume size. So, I detached the volume, created a new volume with 32 GB, and attached it to my instance. However, now my instance does not start. When I try to start it from the console, it remains stopped. So, my questions are: 

After getting my hands on a copy of Windows 8, I ran Boot Camp Assistant on my Macbook Air in Mac OS X, and split my drive to install Windows 8. The installation went without a hitch, but now my trackpad and audio are not working, and I can't run the setup for Boot Camp Control Panel to install. Does anyone have a solution to this? 

On my screen you can see that I have two apps in the top left, Scan and Skype, that I want to move into the folders on the right but can't figure out how (right-click open image in new tab to see the image larger): 

I'm working on setting up a shortcut to be able to SSH into my web development server. Here is what my config file looks like (different port and path to key in the real thing): 

I have hosted Exchange right now, with one mailbox containing around 3GB. I'm looking at switching over to Office 365. Can I just change where my Exchange server lives, and all of my stuff will start syncing to the new server? Or do I need to export my stuff, delete the current Exchange server out of Outlook, add the new one, and then import? 

After restarting the computer those links do not show up in my start menu. I then deleted the symlink and then tried this: 

I'm trying to set it back to it was when I installed El Capitan. I accidentally grabbed the slider and resized it. 

My iPhone and iPad are connected to my Exchange server, and right after an e-mail is sent, both of them light up and receive it. I also run Outlook 2010 (connected to the same Exchange server), and starting a few days ago it stopped receiving e-mail right after it is sent. Sometimes it will come in 10 minutes late, other times, it won't come in until I restart Outlook. All the e-mail will come in when I restart Outlook. Any thoughts on what's going on? Update 1: Here's an image of my connection status: