This won't apply to traffic going the other direction, where the "inbound" interface is e.g. and the "outbound" interface is . 

To avoid restarting the web server, manually clear the cache by having the web server serve a PHP script containing only: 

I don't allow certbot to create my web server configurations. I frankly don't trust it to get it right, since it's already doing some not very efficient practices. So I get certs with ... And my nginx configuration looks like this (for one example domain): 

The terminology surrounding remote access and RADIUS can be confusing the first time you run into it. In short: The user sends credentials to a remote access server (network access server). This is your wireless access point. (For wired networks, the access server is the switch and authentication is usually by MAC address.) The AP or switch then acts as a RADIUS client, and passes the credentials to the RADIUS server for authentication and authorization. (For wired networks, the switch serves as the RADIUS client.) Network Policy Server functions as a RADIUS server in Windows. Linux systems usually use FreeRADIUS. If the user is authenticated (their username and password match) and authorized (they're allowed to be talking to the network at all) then the RADIUS client also sends accounting information (when they logged in and for how long). 

In a lab setup, I want eth0 on a Ubuntu server box to get a DHCP address for talking to the outside world, and I also want to assign it a static 10.x.y.z address for talking to other boxes on the local network that have 10.x.y.z addresses. I want to do this by editing /etc/network/interfaces. The man page for /etc/network/interfaces is modeled after "here's a bunch of examples, I hope you can figure out the actual rules on your own". I don't see a way to give one interface two addresses using two different methods (static and dhcp), and initial fumbling didn't produce useful results. 

This is a feature/bug of putty, not FreeBSD. putty always tells the other OS what its width and height are. You can show this easily by doing one of your truncating commands, then widen the putty screen. You can see that the lines were truncated. Now give the comand again: you will see more columns. In essence, what you are asking putty to do is to lie about the width of your window (giving a number larger than what it really is showing) and to wrap the longer lines intelligently. That will work fine for and and so on, and fail miserably for or any other full-screen editor. Such lying can also cause display of information that can be misinterpreted because of the wrapping. There may be a mode of putty that does this, but I could not find it. 

Go into Powershell or the console and look at the properties (SMTP adresses) on both particular users. It seems that one of the users might have gotten a wrong policy so that the correct smtp domain might not be listed on the mailbox. 

What type of outlook version are you using? Outlook 2003 works different from Outlook 2007/2010. Can you please specify the credentials settings for OwaVirtualDirectory and Microsoft-Server-ActiveSync directory. I would also point out the need of correct InternalUrl and ExternalUrl. By the way, microsoft-server-activesync is only for mobile devices, not for Outlook clients! 

Have you exported the self-signed certificate with the private key and imported that to the iphone? Other users can't connect either i suppose? Since the Iphone doesn't trust the certificate now you need to import that to the phone. Otherwise you must buy a third party certificate that the iphone already trust. 

Verify the settings on the "Client" Receive Connector that the appropriate authentication is set and that the permission group is set to Exchange Users. 

First of try to identify the policy that might be the one samping these addresses. You can fine-tune it to be applied to just mailboxes or contacts... ... or create a new one for just contacts. To clean up the mess powershell is there for you if you need to do bulk changes. 

When booting into Linux, there are sometimes one or two lines that get quickly cleared. I think that some of them don't even appear in dmesg. If nothing else, I want to suppress the clear before the "login:" prompt. Is there a kernel command or sysctl that I can set to prevent this so I can read them on the console screen after booting? 

On Ubuntu 10.04, I have a long Python program that prints a bunch of output; I run this under "nohup". However, it waits until the end to put all the text in nohup.out. When I run similar programs under FreeBSD, each line gets sent to nohup.out. Is there a Ubuntu setting I can set to get the output faster? 

I have a small Python-based server program that runs fine, but I want launched each time the server is rebooted. What is the least that I need to put into an /etc/init.d script to work? I only care about "stop" and "start" (and thus probably the trivial "restart"). 

I have been using RootBSD ($URL$ for years and remain impressed. Low-cost, excellent tech support. Lots of different VPS plans. 

I would like to automate the installation of FreeBSD 8.2 for a project I'm working on. I know the answer to every question in the standard installation, so even a script that just pushes keystrokes would be acceptable. All clues appreciated. FWIW, I tried this question on the FreeBSD fora ($URL$ but only got one response that didn't solve the problem. Maybe ServerFaulters will have more ideas. 

Are you having a single Exchange server with CAS/HT/MBX role? Clients are connecting differently nowdays. I think Outlook 2003 still connects towards the MBX while Outlook 2007/2010/Entourage connects towards the CAS role. Is the firewall enabled? 

You could try use the Outlook Profile Analyzer to see some outlook statistics there. If not using circular logging you could look and see how many logs that are generated per day. Then I think you could use perfmon to see the amount of traffic utilized on the loggshipping NIC (if you have a separated replication NIC) 

1) So domainjoined pc works perfekt, but not non-domain joined (never gets pass the basic screen). 2) Test-OutlookWebServices = Autodiscover: Outlook Provider failure (if using -debug I cannot see any errors). 3) How come if using netstat on a client computer I can see the connection towards the server hosting the active mailboxdatabase. Should'nt I see the proxy (mail.company.com?) 4) Shall InternalNLBBypassUrl be serverfqdn, proxy fqdn or $null? When first installed it was empty, but after a reset of ews vdir it got the serverfqdn field configured! 

Having a bit of a problem with my greenfield installation of Exchange Server 2013. Environment: Windows Server 2012, 4 Exchange Servers (collocated CAS/MBX roles), Outlook 2010. HLB is arriving next week, until then I have configured DNS RR for both autodiscover.company.com and mail.company.com. If starting outlook on a domain joined pc, autodiscover and outlook anywhere is working perfect. If starting outlook on a non-domain joined pc and enter my email address it does an autodiscover lookup using A record (autodiscover.company.com) and it resolves the guid. but I cannot logon to the server. If I do it manually I cannt enter the proxyname (mail.company.com) I have to enter a exchangeservernamefqdn, then it works.