Sets a time limit for active Terminal Services sessions Sets a time limit for active but idle Terminal Services sessions Terminate session when time limits are reached 

Here is the "User Guides and Manuals" page for your computer. $URL$ This is your specific "Hardware Maintenance Manual": $URL$ Go to page 83 of the manual, "Removing and replacing a FRU". Go to "1050 DIMM". It will tell you that you need the prerequisites of "1010 Battery Pack", and "1040 Palm Rest...". The directions are excellent and contain very good diagrams. 

The documentation says yes: "AMD Eyefinity multi-display technology" "◦Native support for up to 3 simultaneous displays" $URL$ AMD Eyefinity Technology: $URL$ (has a link to the following "how to") How To: $URL$ 

The C$ is the administrative share. You probably should not disable it, as it may break things. The real security issue here is that it sounds like they made everyone administrators on every machine (maybe through domain users being added to the local administrators group). In some ways that should not be an issue since, personally, I don't believe anything should be stored locally in the first place, and that "My Documents" should be redirected to your personal mapped drive on the server, which they would not have access to unless there were an even greater security lapse. 

I don't think that updating the BIOS is a bad idea at all in this situation. After that, that drive should be found automatically as long as both the power and data connectors are well-seated. If not, you may just have a DOA drive. Also, try swapping out the cables. I also found this unusual solution on the web: A suggestion on the ASUS site in relation to this error was to press the re-set button in the search period (I am not sure what this means exactly, but you may understand since you will be watching it) before the error message came up. It worked for at least a few people. 

I may change this if you add additional information, which changes the scenario significantly. If you really lock down a directory on an external drive so only one account can read it (usually externals allow everyone full access by default), let's say even a common account like administrator, and then you move it to another computer, even the administrator on the new computer will not be able to read it. The reason is that even though they have the same username, they have different SSID's (security identifiers), so are actually different in the eyes of the OS. You may find that pass-through authentication may allow the new administrator to see it, that is, if they both have the same username and password. Of course, on a network, if you are talking a domain administrator, even if you gave it the permissions locally, that is the same user and SSID on another domain computer. Lastly, there is no real security, since if you plug that into any Windows computer, any administrator can take ownership of all the files, and then give himself any permissions they want. 

Go to Start>All Programs>Accessories and right-click on the command prompt and click "Run As", and run it as an administrator on the computer, which should include your domain admin account. Then use this command to give the group Everyone full access to the folder C:\temp (in my example) and all the subfolders: 

Considering I am not sure what you mean by "PowerPlay Options", I can only give you my advice and experience. My experience is that they are both superflous, and can be disabled. If you want to do this so you can easily get them back if something goes wrong, do this: Open a command box and type in 

Why don't you just try it? My guess is nothing since it probably takes the actual act of closing the lid to trigger the hibernation. 

No harm deleting this. Application settings are things like a user's preferences, which can be reset, and will be recreated when the application is opened again for the first time. This has no effect on the actual install. I would still use windirstat to look at what I was deleting since it is so large. I suspect a lot is temp files and Internet cache. 

Browse to the file, and check the "Link to file" box. You can either update the source file (I would do this to avoid confusion), or if you are in the destination file, when you try to edit it, it actually opens the file within the file. Hard to explain, but you will get it when you see it. Other versions of Office are very similar. 

Inbound, you can start minimally, but I have found that just using those ports never seems to work. I always have to open these inbound: 

The automatic reply feature is really just a shortcut for making a special rule (it does not show in rules though). Setup your automatic reply as you always do for one address, and for the other create a rule. You create the rule by going to the Home tab>Rules>Create rule. If you highlight the e-mail you want to base it on, it will attempt to guess as some of the things you have to fill in. 

You would need to secure the BIOS with a password. In addition, it is set through the clock applet in the Systray, of course. You need to protect both. To prohibit changing this, you can open . Then go to Local , and change the "Change the system time" right to only those users you want to have that right. If They are administrators, they will be able to change this back if they are smart enough, so they technically cannot be administrators if you want this to work. 

Your computer is possibly running Scheduled Tasks that are set work when the system is idle, for example, defragging in the background. Note the "Start this task only if the computer is idle for" parameter in the screenshot. 

With Outlook (any version), you cannot import directly from an Outlook Express/Live mail file. It is funny, because if the account is set up, it will find that, and do it, but once you have removed the account, you can't directly. You have a few choices: 

Your software firewall is probably blocking File and Print Sharing (or at least ONE, but clearly not all, of the ports it uses). Go into your firewall properties and check it. You can also turn it off temporarily to test if that does not work. 

I am not 100% sure it works in this situation, but you can try an "Anytime Upgrade". This is not something that you will start, and then not be able to finish. It should be clear early on if you follow the directions below (or the video), whether it will work or not. If it works, it will just go out to the Internet, download some components, and then do a "light" upgrade...just the changes, not a whole upgrade, like back in the pre-XP days. Takes about 15 minutes, give or take. $URL$ $URL$ 

A quick Google search says that many people get sounds (usually high-pitched electronic noise) out of a device you would expect to be silent: An SSD. It is likely coming from the capacitor. $URL$ $URL$ (look at the contents) If it is still under warranty, I would try to get a replacement. 

I could not find much other than the link below, so much of this is conjecture based on what I know other programs do. I believe it is defragmenting an area of the drive closer to the inner edge of the platters, then moving its files there. $URL$ I think it is also checking if there are any out-dated plugins, as in this sample directory: $URL$ No matter what you do, and even though I use it, Acrobat Reader is a pig...fairly slow to load. 

Normally, I would try to put the steps here myself, as is normal practice on this site, but in this case, the answer is very detailed, and somewhat complicated, so I will just post the link. It is also EXTREMELY well-done, so I will not try to re-create such a great answer (one of THE best I have ever seen on the Internet). I would follow this link as it seems to do exactly what you want: $URL$ Lastly, I would say, make sure you have a good System Restore point AND backup before you try this. 

On one or both machines, do the following: Right click the folder you want to share, and share it. Set the permissions for everyone to Full (since it is a home network, this is pretty safe). You will also need to assign the folder permissions for everyone. From the other computer you can now browse to the sharing computer, double click it, and see the share. You can then right-click the share, and do "Map network drive" if you want to assign it a letter. Another easy way to use the share is simply to run the command from a command line. This is how I shared Temp on Windows 7 Ultimate (it may vary slightly with the Home editions). 

First, make sure you have any critical data on an external drive, or otherwise backed up. This process will overwrite your drive as it is now. If you have not blown away the recovery partition during an earlier install, press F11 early during the boot process, before Windows loads, and it will load the recovery application. Then you can just follow the instructions. It will use the data from the recovery partition to restore to factory install condition. If you do not have the F11 partition, you can call them and order new disks for about $20.