I found this very interesting. It doesn't mean it won't work. (Indeed some backup/imaging tools explicitly boats this capability.) But it does mean, as far as I understand, that MS doesn't care about this scenario. Microsoft Article 279624 - How to move a Windows installation to different hardware 

I have purchased a few PDF eBooks (RPG rulebooks) and they come with a set of bookmarks, but with such "technical" books, I would really like to be able to add new bookmarks for easy reference. (Normal PDF bookmarks would be best, because I'd like to use them on my tablet as well.) However, these PDF files are secured ("watermarked" it said) and I cannot edit anything about them. The PDF security info that Adobe reader gives looks like this: 

Since Windows allows applications to fully lock files for read+write access I was wondering how Volume Shadow Copy Service handles locked files. (Locked as in an application does not share any access to a file it has opened, thereby essentially preventing any xcopy style backup of said file.) Since Windows apps do their fair amount of locking, is there any chance to ever get a consistent backup this way? 

If you're running Vista/Win 7, you should be able to use it as ReadyBoost cache for Windows. See: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ReadyBoost 

Note: I'm asking and self-answering this after the fact, but the reason I didn't find anything on google seems to be that I searched in the wrong order with the wrong keywords, so this may be of help to people with the same problem. 

Preliminary Note: After reading what I wrote below, I would like to stress that this ain't a TeamViewer ad. It's just that all other tools that I checkked online seem to miss one feature or the other. :-) OK, so I'm currently trying to get a picture of available solutions for remote desktop software. I have found (through personal usage) that TeamViewer pretty much ticks all boxes that I personally would want from any remoting tool. (Specifically it's setup is amazingly trivial.) It supports a wide range of platforms and it's even free for private use, so I'm really quite OK with it. I would be interested if anyone knows of other tools that ticks as many boxes as TeamViewer seems to do. 

Update: While it seems I got lucky with one OpenSSL connection, gmail.com/googlemail.com isn't working either now. Can't connect my gmail account via IMAP with tunderbird - same problems as with the other two accounts. (1) 

For example, the master file table is one of the NTFS system files. How can I view the properties of these files (e.g. size)? 

I'm thinking of migrating a Desktop machine (Windows XP) to a VM solution (VirtualBox or MS Virtual PC). The reason is that I need a new hardware anyways and I don't want to (cannot properly) reinstall all the "business" apps on there. So my plan goes as follows: I'll pull an image of the machine and restore it to a Virtual Machine using Acronis Universal Restore or some other tool that can restore to dissimilar hardware. (The process is largely irrelevant for this question I think.) Once I have this virtual machine properly running I'll move it to a new PC. So the question now is. Are there any caveats wrt. to Windows (XP?) being installed in a VM and the VM machine being moved around on different host computers? Can anything break in the OS inside the VM? Will there be troubles wrt. to Windows activation? 

Firefox (4) allows me to (with to Allow or Deny for some). However, as far as I can see, it ain't possible to use the option and still keep some cookies when I close. Is it somehow possible to keep only a whitelist of cookies and clear all the rest on close? Does this even make sense, or should I just make a whitelist of cookies and keep those regardless of closing Firefox? 

My company restricts access to the outside via an (HTTP) proxy. My Firefox settings for the proxy are working (proxy address + port as well as "use this proxy server for all protocols"). However, if I use the same settings for the proxy in Thunderbird I cannot access any NNTP groups. (I use one unsecured server over port 119 and one secured server (eternal-september.org) over port 563 -- both do not work via this proxy. What can I do to read+post text NNTP messages? (I would like to avoid Google Groups as it doesn't work properly for some moderated newsgroups.) Oh, and note that all of the NG I access are actually work related :-) 

I can set up Internet Connection Sharing on my Windows-7 laptop without problems. (I connect to the DSL modem via wireless) The client laptop (Windows XP) is directly connected via LAN cable to the Windows-7 laptop and the client correctly gets an IP, Standardgateway and nameserver from the Windows-7 ICS host. However, when I start my VPN client, I get the error message: 

It turns out the AV/firewall was the problem after all. Sigh. I've no clue what got messed up with the software, but uninstalling it immediately fixed the traffic on port 993 (as this was the only SSL port affected). (I had previously tried to disable it's firewall stuff, etc., but that didn't help.) I've now re-installed the product and the online installer chose a newer version and everything is running smooth again.I used ESET Smart Security 5 (NOD32) and the new version is ESS 7. Just goes to show: If you suspect a software component, don't trust it's settings. Try to uninstall it. 

It turns out that you should take error messages by their word. "... unable to resolve IP address of remote server ...". This was a hint that name resolution didn't work. It turns out that, for whatever reason, the nameserver on the Win-7 ICS host didn't work for the client(s). It was/is routing traffic allright, but as long as the client PCs have the nameserver they get via DHCP -- namely the IP of the ICS-host=standardgateway), name resolution doesn't work. (I can but I cannot .) The fix is, once you have the connection running, to go to the IPv4 settings of the (LAN) connection ob the client PC and change the nameserver from "auto" to a fixed nameserver. (I used google's 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4.) Once name resolution worked, I could also connect to the VPN network. 

I noticed that the semicolon is a valid character for Windows (NTFS) file and directory names. The semicolon is, however, used as element delimiter for the environment variable. Say I have a folder called "" (heh, nice, also contains a percent sign) -- how could I add this folder to the system ? 

Tools like Acronis promise to enable you to restore the PC to a running state in no time, because when your hardware is defect, you just replace it and restore the backup and everything's fine. Except that you won't be able to activate your OEM licensed Windows on a new box. (Yes, if only the HD's toast, then you should be fine.) Given that all home boxes I know are OEM licensed, and the DELL boxes at the office come with preinstalled Windows too, isn't such imaging backups a waste of backup space (after all, a PC image is much larger than just saving the user folder) that you then can't restore anyway when the wrong part of your PC goes bust? 

A large majority of the stuff I write is written online via Firefox or in emails via Thunderbird. I use the English and German spell-checking feature a lot and I find the spell-checking works to my satisfaction. I also write text using various flavors of text editors on windows. It would be great to use the same dictionary in my local editor as I use with my Mozilla apps, as that would reduce a lot of duplicated dictionary maintenance (adding the same word 3 times over) and I also found the Mozilla dictionary to work slightly better than then one in my texteditor. (I use PSPad atm. for simple text files / TeXnicCenter for LaTeX editing.) So, is it possible to use my Mozilla dictionaries in my text editor (feel free to propose one that supports that)? 

A few days ago our IMAP SSL (port 993) connections stopped working from our home network two Windows 7 PCs in our home network. Two other PCs, one with Windows XP, one also with Win7 professional 64bit work just fine. It also works from the Windows XP Mode from the Win7 (on which it's not working) machine when using Bridged Networking for the VM, but not when using NAT networking for the VM. Go figure. It is not a network/hardware issue, I already plugged the working/not working machines into exactly the same wall socket, and also there's the VM happily working. While trying to find out what's wrong, I installed OpenSSL (Windows build from here), and here's what I see: (I used the google mail server to cross check - doesn't work properly either - see below) Note: All Windows 7 machines. 

I am looking for a fast way of counting the total number of files - and directories - on any NTFS volume. (In an ad-hoc way. That is, given any random box, not a specially prepared volume.) Note: This is not about files per directory, just the overall amount of files on the volume. Currently, the only way I know is to open the root folder of a drive in Windows Explorer select all elements, right-click to choose Properties and then wait (and wait) until explorer has counted all elements. Is there a better/faster way?