Based on your comment, I recommend to check pigpio where a Java wrapper exists. The library​ is maintained by another user of this community. The wrapper is also well documented. I think with this you can develop bit more efficient. 

I use Owncloud for a similar use case. As for Google Drive, OneDrive, ... you need a dedicated app (existing for iOS or Android) or you can access your own Owncloud with the browser. For desktop existing clients for Windows, OSX and Linux. For installing the Owncloud server on your RPi you need a Webserver with PHP support. If you want to access the files over internet, i'd suggest to use HTTPS. You can use self signed SSL certificates or a SSL cert from a trusted CA. Here is a tutorial for setting up a Owncloud with "Let's encrypt" certificates and here a tutorial for self signed certificates My Owncloud is running with self signed certificates, but the Let's encrypt certificates should be now the preferred solution (nevertheless it's good to learn more about generation of certificates). In my idea, if you just want to share few files with few persons a SQLite3 data base is sufficient. As storage you can use a flash drive for storing the files, this will minimize IO on your SD card. 

EDIT 3 So it seems that pin 6 has the same always on state that pin 26 used to have. Interestingly, shows it as input and as having a value of 0. 

I have a raspberry pi zero and I am trying to change the gpio pin values. I tried using RPi.GPIO with python and the gpio command from wiringpi but I am unable to change the value for any of the pins. I am using LEDs to check if a pin is high or low and no matter I do, the pins do not become high. I also used to see the changes. I am able to change the mode of the pin (input or output) but not the value itself. Interestingly an LED connected to pin 26 (BCM numbering) is always on. I tried changing the values but the LED stays on and shows its value as 0. I tried reinstalling the OS but after that twice, the problem still persists. I have raspbian jessie lite. I have been trying to fix this issue for the last two days, any help would be greatly appreciated. EDIT: Here is the code I used. No errors were reported when running any of the commands or programs Python 

I was reading lot and tried some approaches last days. The comfortable function from Rasbian Jessie, where you can copy a wpa_supplicant.conf to /boot which will be moved to /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf after next boot, was announced here in the blog of raspberrypi.org. In the raspberrypi.org forum, the user ShiftPlusOne (a Raspberry Engineer) indicate that this function is a part of the raspberrypi-net-mods package (but has dependencies to X gui.) I guess because of this dependencies the package isn't in Jessie-lite. On a Windows system there are some 3rd party tools, which make the ext4 read/write accessible. i have successfully edited the /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf on the SD card with both ExtFS (free for personal use) and Ext2Fsd (Open Source). Well in my opinion the easiest approach would be a pen drive Linux booted instead of windows or a Virtual Machine with Linux. 

You could buy the Xiaomi power bank. I was able to run my raspberry pi 2 from it and it works very well. I have the 10000 mAh model. I got mine for $18 in Singapore. 

You can set up your raspberry pi as a samba server by following this article. This will allow your raspberry pi to function as a NAS(network attached storage). Once you have this set up, its just a simple matter of accessing the raspberry pi from any other device to gain access to all the files in your external HDD. If you intend to connect your raspberry pi to a T.V and watch all your media through the T.V too, I would recommend you use openelec. It can be installed through NOOBS. It offers a very simple way to get kodi on your raspberry pi but if you intend to do other more complex functions this OS would not be suitable. 

You should have a fixed IP address for your Raspberry (static or DHCP with fixed MAC - IP allocation). This address comes in the first "to" field. the first "from"should be your gateway address. with IPv4 could be like 

Sometimes this hangs are traced back to memory issues. An indication can be if the CPU is not at 100%. The system seems to be unresponsive while swapping memory to SD card. Also check if there is sufficient space on your SD Card. 

If using MSSQL you can also create a CSV file with python and import it using bulk insert or SSIS. I would recommend the python module - but if you don't have a SQL user with the permission to connect and insert into your table MS SQL tools are a great alternative. for inserting a variable you can try something like this: 

Anyone has an idea of how to fix this? Here are the current config files. I started without changing config.txt and hwclock-set, and the result was the same: sudo nano /boot/config.txt: added at the end: 

I am deploying raspberry pis in classrooms and I would like to store an id on each of them that is not linked to the MAC address, as the hardware might be replaced, but the classroom id shouldn't change. The only thing I can think of is to create a file in each of the pis, and write the id in it. I was wondering if anyone had thought of a more clever way of solving this problem. 

returns a value of 0. and also had no effect EDIT 2 in case anyone was wondering, the LEDs work fine. I verified that by connecting the LEDs to a different battery powered circuit. I also changed the circuit a bit and the LED connected to pin 26 no longer lights up. the particular LED was not changed but I made my circuit similar to that of one of my earlier project here. The required LEDs still do not light up. This was the output of my testing. The circuit is connected properly. 

I found my problem. I needed to update hostapd. After trying out several ones, the one that worked was the adafruit one. $URL$ It had worked without when I setup the AP in november, but not this time. Still interested in understanding why.. 

I set the correct time on the hardware clock and shut down the pi. I unplug the ethernet cable so that the pi is off the internet. I turn on again after about 7/8 minutes and check date and hwclock -r: and here is what I get: 

There can be different points why you cant connect your PI. The error message indicates that the domain can't be resolved. Try: 

now you need to config the display manager /etc/gdm3/daemon.conf and let the pi unser log in automatically 

Pushing the button for more than 4 seconds, there are two valid IF conditions. You can use else if and use a range for the second condition: 

does the response give the IP of the Raspberry? If not there is a DNS issue. If you know the IP of your Raspberry try to connect using the IP: 

I am facing a rather weird problem with SSH. When I SSH into my raspberry pi 2 from my windows laptop, it works properly for some time and after that whatever I type only appears after a very long delay. I tried to ping the Pi while I am typing the command over SSH and the ping is usually either 2ms or 3ms. I am using the bash terminal I got when I installed git on this laptop. I think its MING64. this laptop is connected to the modem via WiFi. It does not have an Ethernet port and I do not have an adapter so i was unable to check if i get the same problem over Ethernet. I tried to SSH from another laptop running Ubuntu. this laptop is connected over Ethernet and it does not have any delay when I type. I have kept the SSH connection open for more than 10 minutes as I used it and it hasnt slowed down at all. in fact it feels like I'm using the terminal normally and not over SSH. When I pinged the Pi from this laptop while I was connected to the pi via SSH, the ping is higher (around 3-4 ms). I know that the typing delay is usually caused by higher latency but in my case the laptop with higher latency has a smoother connection than the one with lower latency. Are there any other factors which could be causing this strange behaviour? I would prefer to connect to the Pi from my windows system. I used to run openelec on the Pi until last week and if I remember correctly, I did not have any typing delay the few times I SSHed into the system. Is this a problem with OSMC? Any help would be greatly appreciated, thanks 

I'm trying to access the internet using a 3G dongle on my pi (raspberry pi 2 running Raspbian Jessie) and encountering the following pb: I can ping google.com successfully, I even downloaded some pictures from S3. 

I guess something is not configured properly with the 3G dongle, but don't know what. I know very little about networking, so please tell me if you need more code and I will provide. 

I have been trying to install a RTC on my raspberry pi 2 (running Raspbian Jessie lite 2015-11-21) and I run into the following problem that puzzles me: