In above scenario do i need to specify or open RTP port range on ASA or does ASA will use method when VoIP phone initiate connection to SIP server? How does firewall handle UDP port stat? because in TCP we know its stateful but how does firewall understand its UDP traffic initiated from inside to outside to keep that port open bi-directional traffic? If i enable does that automatically open RTP media port after inspection in ? what if i do not enable in that case do i need to open full RTP port range to allow outside to inside traffic? 

We have setup on router and initial it pick ip address but later we remove those IPs and reconfigure for new subnet but still showing older router ID sometime it's confusing seeing older IP address in Router ID, Is there a way i can tell OSPF re-initialize new ID without reload? 

Update: Someone suggested run BGP on Internet connectivity but use OSPF for internal routing between Router <---> L3 switch as per above diagram if i plan to configure OSPF between Router and L3 switch then what network i will advertise on OSPF command? Example: ISP provided 10.1.1.0/24 subnet to us how do i configure BGP and OSPF for internal network? Any suggestion? 

EDIT I am pinging my peer public address and packet loss there so its not Internet issue. I am clearly seeing my tunnel getting drop and after 2 packet drop its back itself, Is there anyway i can find reason for dropping tunnel or logs? We have many tunnel to remote site and they all working fine except this one. I am continuing ping to remote LAN IP and intermediately seeing packet drop and same time i notice tunnel down, and after few packet missing in ping it back itself. If you notice my output, i am notice this 

You can get the mac address of the device that you want to isolate, and put it on your router, blocking or filtering the access to the admin console. That is a basic security function on networks devices. 

With snmp request, i think, you can have the community name what you are looking for. With snmp packet, you will get the source ip. 

Cisco CCNA Exploration 4.0 is the best that you can find, where are explained on a easily way, all the basics topics of networking 

You can use VPN for that. It's the best solution. Also, if you need to work into your other PC like if you were seat in front of that, you can try TeamViewer. By the other hand, like @Ron Maupin said, if you can control the routing of your organization, or enterprise, whatever, you can create a tunnel accros the internet, eg: GRE, IPsec(this one is a VPN). 

I´m trying to test this etherchannel configuration but did´t work properly. The goal is: I want to entablish a L2 communication channel between A and B, but i neet to put on the middle 2 equipments and try to load balance the traffic accross then. To do that i figure out the use of an etherchannel configuration like i described on the image, but did not work properly, i generate a lot of traffic and neither get to its destination Any help will be appreciated 

This is a domain name an could be anything, from a phone, server, workstation,.. an so on. I think first you need to know the IP behind this domain name, i hope you only find an IP address, on this way you are lucky, if not, an you encounter some hostnames behind this domain name, then, you need to study the traffic, and wich kind of traffic do you need to filter. 

Solution: This is what i did on radius, map ASA attributes with ldap group. and its working now. /etc/raddb/users 

I have setup ASA5506 for cisco anyconnect VPN and i am able to connect VPN but not able to ping or ssh or anything to any device on remote lan (inside) network 10.0.10.x/24 Here is the network diagram: 

If you see following diagram we have two separate links (10G) coming from same ISP terminated on router where we are planning to run BGP. From ASR 1006 two 10G fiber terminated to switch. Notes: I know BGP doesn't make sense with single ISP but in future we have plan to get second ISP but for now we have only single ISP. Question: 

We have above scenario where currently we have only single link with but soon we are planning to have second link on same BGP router but ISP side it will comes from . I heard its recommended to configure BGP with loopback source but i don't know how does that fit in DUAL router scenario. This is what we have currently configured in my router. 

We have 4x1G on trunk and for troubleshooting i want to monitor one of its physical port. Can i monitor using port and configure its physical port for source SPAN? 

Everything working good but when i remove cable to test Redundancy i am seeing error in failover state command 

We have with and it seems strange on our SNMP monitoring its showing Max CPU utilization 70% and avg 35% but when i check on command line numbers are totally different, what is the best command to check CPU utilization on Cisco which give correct info. We are pumping 4Gbps on this router and running BGP with bunch of ACL and netflow. I want to see who is eating most CPU (i believe it must be ACL but just want to see how much?) 

iBGP is for internal use on an AS, is entablished between routers on the same AS. By other hand, eBGP is between routers on different AS, is on the way that internet works. On your question, you said that why routers on the same AS some time need to learn routes learned by BG, i guess, because BGP works with the major posibilities of some routing protocols, it can be used to control the way that traffic flow on your AS: maybe you are a transit AS connected to different ISP, Providers an so on, then you can control the path that traffic get to reach some networks, and with that, saving money(maybe your L2 providers have different prices), providing the less congested link to some ISP, use the fastest link to leave your AS, and some other scenarios. 

Explaination about the Data link layer is frequently related with a software as a driver for a network interface card (NIC). The data link and physical layers are so closely one to the other, because many types of hardware are also associated with the data link layer. Ex: NICs typically implement a specific data link layer technology, so they are often called Ethernet cards, Token Ring cards, etc. Then Enpoints on physical and data link layer, is to hard to differetiate, cause the pyshical layer is the medium, electrical or optical signal that travel on some form, to reach some device(where most often, is decoded the signal(link-layer) and the information is passed up to the upper layers. An application endpoint is the commom application that perform the action, the data request or transmit, ex: an Explorer, FTP_client and so on 

What i am doing wrong? EDIT: I was following this Doc to setup community RTBH $URL$ Update: I have modify config with following info but still no luck and is default in BGP 

I have nexus switch and i have configured and i want to find out top-talker IP from command line but i am not seeing any command. I have Cisco ASR1k and i have configured and i can see top-talker there with following command Question: does sflow support top-talk like netflow? 

Look like arp related issue showing every ~85 second my arp table getting flushed so something is not OK here... what is triggering arp-flood? Lets investigate in STP because because that could be the problem of arp, Hmm based on following output something changed at 

But in Nexus switch i am not seeing any command or related doc, how do i announce my subnet in ospf in nx-os My nexus 9k config 

Nexus 3064 CPU spike and packetloss I have L3 Cisco 3064PQ switch which is running latest "nxos.7.0.3.I4.7.bin" basically I am using for routing so my ISP 2x10Gbps link terminated (with LACP) on single switch (without STP,vPC) it and currently live traffic is 10Gbps on switch but i have notice periodic packetloss and not sure where its coming from, after digging i found when my CPU spike up to 70% i have seeing packet loss. If you notice in below picture that 60% spike and at same time i have noticed 1 ping packet loss. How do i debug this issue and find out what is that pike for and why its happening periodically 

But ios told me that is invalid because it's this router. The issue is that the Port where the PC is connected only accept decrypted traffic but one customer wants to use a IPSec Tunnel for encryption. So the ISR should be the endpoint, decrypt the traffic and send it decrypted to the PC1 Port. For explanation see this Visio chart: 

The EtherSwitch Module isn't a routing module, so you can't see the EtherSwitch Port if you connected to the ISR Router. You need to connect to the EtherSwitch module separate with following Command: 

Maybe I need a static route that says destination Network via IPSec subdevice and then to BGP Neigbhour? How can I do that? I try to add a static route but doesn't work: 

For the Po1.530 and Po1.531 there are active BGP Sessions, this sessions can connect to Po1.525 now I want to create a Interface only for IPSEC Endpoint so that Po1.530 can access the Po1.525 plain and if needed access a subnet for example 10.10.1.37 as IPSEC Endpoint. 

While plug in a SM-X-ES3D-48-P Etherswitch Module into a Cisco ISR 4451 the Ports for this Module didn't came up. What I need to do to get the Ports enable with command? The Output of is: 

From a PC that is attached to a Cisco Catalyst 3850 and Portchanneld to Cisco ISR I do a ping to a destination that is connected with BGP. That works for me. The trace path looks like: