Not sure if your mail system is Exchange server. To Exchange organization, if the organizer's mailbox attributes have been changed due to mailbox recreating or other reasons, the organizer will not be able to update the meetings he setup before. Because it's no longer the original organizer. In above situation, you may ask the Exchange admin to search these meetings and delete them in batches from server side, then the organizer recreates the meetings. 

It's not recommended to uninstall the security updates if it is what you uninstalled. There is a known issue about Outlook search after June security update, it is fixed now. Please check the issue #5 in below article: $URL$ STATUS: FIXED Windows has released fixes via Windows Updates to address a reliability issue in Windows Search. Below are the relevant KB updates for each version: Windows 7 - KB4022168 Windows 8.1 - KB4022720 Windows 10 Version 1703 - KB4022716 Windows 10 Version 1607 - KB4022723 Windows 10 Version 1511 - KB4032673 Windows 10 - KB4032695 NOTE: The fix for this issue has been released on June 27, 2017. If you implemented the workaround, you can now set the PreventIndexingOutlook registry key to DWORD: 0 to go back to using Windows Search. 

It would be the category on the message before you got this message in your Outlook. So it is listed as Not in Master Category List. Similar thread for your reference: $URL$ 

The reason or error code/message in the bounce message is the key to resolve this issue. Some codes in non-delivery report for your reference. How about sending the emails from web mail in browsers? If you experience the same issue when sending from web mail, the issue might be the mail system related. Contact your mail system admin for assistant. However, the content of the bounce message is still the key point. 

In this scenario, it's recommended to sync your work emails via Outlook client other than Mail APP on Windows 10, or you just access and handle emails in OWA on your own desktop. It's high risk that your computer is reset and most data were lost unexpectedly. As Microsoft states: In addition to resetting the mobile phone to factory default condition, a remote device wipe also deletes any data on any storage card that's inserted in the mobile phone. If you're performing a remote device wipe on a mobile phone in your possession and want to keep the data on the storage card, remove the storage card before you initiate the remote device wipe. See:$URL$ 

Answering my own question from the now seemingly well laptop! When I got home yesterday it was still just as dead as before, not even launching the bios as far as I could tell. I opened it up with the remote hope of maybe seeing something wrong on the motherboard, and when I removed the bottom cover, I noticed that a metal "tongue" had been bent and was probably touching components on the motherboard when the cover was on. Without the cover on, the machine booted as normal, and after bending the thing back into position and re-fitting the cover, the machine now seems as good as new. I tried including an image of the metal thingy but apparently I don't have enough rep. 

I have a Sony Vaio VPCF11SE, i7 QM 720 CPU running Win7 home premium. Yesterday, after an hour or two of mostly just surfing the web, my laptop just suddenly died. There was no BSOD, noise or any other forewarning, it just went black. Due to battery problems, similar things have happened before when not plugged into the mains. The difference this time was that when starting again, Windows did not seem aware of the crash. Otherwise, I normally get the screen suggesting to boot in safe mode since it was shut down unexpectedly, but now Windows just booted as normal. Once in again, I had a look at the Event logs, but the only thing of interest was an entry saying something about "unexpected shutdown" or similar. The same type of sudden shutdown happened once or twice more, after only a few minutes. Then matters became worse, as the machine started refusing to boot at all. It powers up and I hear the blueray drive waking up, but nothing appears on screen and it appears the BIOS never even loads. About a week ago I migrated the whole HD to a brand new Samsung SSD, and yesterday, a few hours before this started happening, I replaced the 2 gig RAM module with a 4 gig, giving me a total of 8 gigs of RAM (2x4). But as I said, the machine had been running for a few hours with the new RAM before this problem emerged. I tried removing the new RAM, swapping the two modules, and removing and re-fitting the hard drive. I have not yet tried using the old hard drive instead. Can anyone make a qualified guess as to what might have happened? I assume some hardware has become damaged somehow, but I don't know how to proceed from here... Thanks in advance. 

I have a number of kids games that only work on Windows 9x. Therefore, I have installed Windows 98 on an old computer to my children. The children are 5 and 2 years old. The problem I have is that the children click on everything they see and I have to constantly reset the computer. So I want to lock the computer so that they can not do anything other than to start their games. It should be as easy as possible for them. Do you have tips for me to do? 

We have received new requirements from our customers that all files we attach e-mail must be encrypted with a password. The actual text of the e-mails do not need to be encrypted. Some of our customers use AxCrypt, but I can not find any integration to Outlook 2007 for that. I would like some tips for programs we can test. Ideally, we want it is freeware or open source. We can not require customers to buy the same program as we if it costs too much. 

I work in an AM-project as a consultant against three customers. We have a file server and a TFS server where all project related are saved. The problem is that it is behind the corporate firewall (which is managed globally outside my control), so the customers can not access our servers. To solve this, each night we replicate the most important files to a cloud server, so that customers can login and access the files. However, it only one-way synchronization, so the clients can not edit the files. Additionally, they can not access our TFS server I'm looking to maybe use VPN, but when I do not have control over the firewall, I can not see that it is possible for me. Or? So my question is if there is any technique we can use to give customers a safe way in to our servers. It is enough that they only have access to the web server so that they can access the document management system and TFS