There are good books on specific topics, and good books on basic stuff (in both cases, check out O'Reilly books), but there's nothing that I'm aware of that is a comprehensive middle ground. IMO, your best bet is to learn by doing anyway. 

which generates the exact same output as the above command, assuming a VT100-style terminal. The terminfo capability "smam" is "Set Mode: Automatic Margins". Its partner is "rmam": "Reset Mode: Automatic Margins". By the way, I really wish had a "LocalEndCommand" config option (similar to "LocalCommand") so that I could just have it automatically run this un-fucker at the end of every HP switch ssh connection. 

What MAC address are you using? If it's not a VMware MAC (00:50:56:...), you have to also include this config option: 

Just to weigh in on GUI tools, I prefer sunburst-style graphs, like Scanner2, to treemaps like WinDirStat; I think they're much easier to read. 

(All the "3D" stuff is quoted-printable encoding for an equals sign; there's nothing wrong on that front, surprisingly.) How can I make this stop? 

I have the exact same setup. As far as I can figure, there is no way to synchronize existing emails, whether in a subfolder or in the INBOX proper. The BES will only deal with emails that it encounters after the syncing starts. If you "File" an email into a different folder from the Blackberry, though, it definitely gets moved on the Exchange server. 

I have a Java application that I'm deploying inside a Cloud Foundry environment. I want to monitor the application's memory usage. Cloud Foundry provides the command that produces output about each instance of the specified application. Here you can see information about a particular application with two running instances (expurgated): 

While you can set up a second DHCP server on a network, there is no reliable way to get a computer to prefer its responses. More importantly, though, you should not be trying to circumvent your company's policy. This is unprofessional. If you need access to the DHCP server, make a case for it to your manager. 

against both of your URLs. (It'll write timing output to 'trace.log', so either rename the file between runs or change the filename on the command line.) Then examine the log files' timestamps and see if you can find where the delays are occurring. 

PsTools in general, and PsExec in particular. PsExec will allow you to run arbitrary programs on the remote computer, including cmd.exe and even powershell.exe. Having a remote command-line login to a Windows machine is great. Also, winexe is a Unix utility that allows you the same access to a remote Windows machine. The great thing about these remote access tools is that they require nothing but standard Windows privileges to use. There doesn't need to be any special software installed on the remote system. That said, I've still found them to be more effective than a lot of utilities that do require a server. 

I am trying to connect a Windows 7 Ultimate machine to a Windows 2k8 domain and it's not working. I get this error: 

What that's saying is that it received a new message number 150 and out of those 150 emails, four haven't really been looked at. Then another "new" message appears (in reality, the same message again) as number 151. Then number 150 gets deleted. This makes the old 151 number 150. Then yet another new message appears, number 151. Then message 150 is deleted again. This takes a few seconds at most. This happens for virtually every message I get and causes a lot of problems. It confuses new message notification, and I frequently get notification of "new" messages that are hours, days, or even weeks old. If I select an email and it goes through this process while it's selected, and then try to save an attachment, it can't find it until I deselect and reselect the email. If it happens to a message between the time I attach it to another email (or forward as attachment) and I send that email, the attachment fails. I suspect that the problem is that my Blackberry is accessing the emails, causing BES to update something in the Exchange server, which then causes the Exchange server to recreate the email. I keep meaning to completely turn off my Blackberry and see if that keeps this from happening, but I have yet to remember. (Honestly, my two preferable solutions are to get rid of the Blackberry and get rid of Exchange, but neither of those is going to happen.) 

No errors that I've been able to find in any log file or utility. Anyone have any ideas where to look? 

As a Unix and Windows administrator who does a lot of Unix scripting and almost no Windows scripting, I'd say that it is in part due to the incredible awkwardness of Windows scripting utilities and APIs, and the difficulty (maybe non-obviousness would be a better word) of running things remotely on a Windows machine. I mean, WTF is this? 

I have a Dell-branded EMC AX150i disk array that refuses to enable its write cache. After calling Dell support, it turns out that the system will refuse to enable its write cache unless an APC SmartUPS is connected to the system. However, the AX150 is in a data center and the data center won't allow UPSes to be installed in a customer cabinet; that is, to be attached to their UPSes. (I'm not an electrical engineer, but there's something about UPSes confusing the main DC UPS to think that there's a power fault.) So I need to know if there is a way to force-enable the write cache on an AX150. (The Dell tech says no.) Failing that, does anyone know of a SmartUPS communication emulator that I can use to fake the AX150 into thinking that there's a UPS there? 

I'd like to record data about system activity under FreeBSD for future analysis. If I were running a SysV system, I'd just sar and its related utilities, but that doesn't exist in the BSDs. (And bsdsar has gone missing.) I don't really care about specific formats or utilities, but I want to keep information about CPU, RAM, and VM utilization, as well as I/O information. At the same time, full acct process accounting both seems like overkill and doesn't really provide data I want: notably, data about preexisting processes. I could just log the output from long-running vmstat, iostat, etc. commands, but it seems like there ought to be something tidier. Ultimately, the question is: What is a good way to find out recent past system utilization under FreeBSD? 

It should be pretty easy to do this once manually, as cjc suggests, but I assume that you're wanting to do this a number of times, otherwise you would have just done it. If you use Kickstart, you can specify a filesystem usage type in the "part" declaration by using the flag. Usage types are actually built into and are controlled by . Check out their man pages for more info. It would be nice if Kickstart would allow you to just pass arbitrary options to the command, but it doesn't appear to. 

What you're wanting to do fundamentally isn't the way GPG works. Let's say that something like this existed: you could distribute one public key that could be decrypted by multiple private keys. When the sender encrypts the message with the public key, it would then be decryptable by anyone with any of those private keys. Now you want to revoke one of the private keys. But decryption doesn't go through a third party; anyone who has a matching private key can decrypt the message. The only way to revoke a key is to let the sender know to use a different public key. Which is the same thing you'd do if there were only one private key. So, ultimately, there's not any particular advantage to having multiple private keys for one public key. 

If you want to also be able to resolve server.subzone.prod, you'll have to set the option to 3, etc. If anyone knows how to make this work in MacOS X, please let me know; changing is documented not to work (and doesn't) and I can't figure out the right incantations. (Note: I'm hedging my bets here more than is probably warranted. I believe that the option will work on 99% of (non-MacOSX) Unix systems.) 

(That's 1529.27 seconds: almost 23 times longer than the write.) Interestingly, performs far better than : 

The Cisco ASA has a feature where a blocked HTTP request can be redirected to a web page hosted on the ASA itself in order to allow the web user to authenticate himself to the ASA and unblock the request. This is configured with the command documented in Configuring AAA for Network Access. The page that the user is redirected to is generic and ugly. Is there any way to get that page to appear different? Things I can imagine include a template on the ASA that can be modified, a way to embed that page inside another web page, or some sort of CSS insertion. However, I'm open to anything. Alternately, if anyone knows of a more configurable way to achieve the same goal of blocking network access to a web page prior to authentication, I'd be happy to consider that, too. 

Because it gets in the way of your wildcard ("") record. If you have any records for an item, the wildcard no longer matches at all, for any record type. From RFC1034, §4.3.3: 

just to be sure of the math. Oh, and make sure that your device isn't changing underneath you as you copy it. That would be bad. 

Some UPSes are classified as "online" or "double conversion". They actually always regenerate AC voltage themselves and never pass the line voltage directly. They should be able to even out the voltage for you better than the individual units. That said, if it's that bad, I would definitely talk with your vendor about it before you buy. In my experience, these are almost always larger UPS systems that sit between the main power coming into the building and the distribution panel (where the circuit breakers are), but I hear that there are smaller ones available now. 

currently shows 17617 zombie processes, all of which have a ppid of 1/init. init should be reaping these defunct processes, but isn't for some reason. The number of defunct processes is growing. Trying to force them to be reaped using fails with: 

The xterm sequences work fine for gnome-terminal. What shell are you using and what did you put in your shell config file? 

Use DNS. If you're concerned about public access to names that resolve to private addresses, you can either run an internal DNS server that's publicly inaccessible that forwards to a more general-purpose DNS server, or use a DNS server that will restrict access to parts you don't want people to see. 

I have a grid cluster. (It's running SGE, but I don't think that's relevant.) All the machines are intended to be able to drop out and come back at any time without any significant issue. However, my users need the ability to run cron jobs. Right now, they're just picking a server at random and plopping a cron job on it. I could assign a specific server, either in the grid or external, for them to run their jobs on, but that just seems wrong. Does anyone have a solution where crontabs are stored centrally, but run (potentially) elsewhere? Or am I just overthinking this? 

The only way to specify non-default mkfs options during Kickstart is to use the flag to the command. Unfortunately, this requires that the filesystem-specific mkfs have a "usage type" feature. With , this is a flag that references . For XFS, uhhhh … But maybe that can point you in the right direction. Oh, and allows you to specify mount options. 

The kw/s data ranged from about 17k to about 25k, and was pretty consistent between drives. when ting from: 

The same company that makes those speed test apps, Ookla, also has a free version, which has been replaced with Speedtest Custom. 

Unless I'm mistaken, these errors are telling you that you have errors that haven't been corrected by the RAID controller. The RAID controller should be hiding errors like that from you. I don't think you have a simple disk failure. I think you have something more serious going on. 

The reason to use Gentoo is so that you can install packages with the features you want. What I mean by this is: if you get a RedHat/CentOS/Debian/Ubuntu package for, say, Apache, you're going to get the features that they decided that you needed. If you want an additional feature, your only recourse is to download the source and compile. There's nothing inherently wrong with that, but it can be a pain. For one thing, you're used to just typing "yum install apache" or whatever. For another, now you have an application that exists outside your package management tools. On the other hand, if you have Gentoo, you can define in your emerge configuration files the sorts of features that you want, and you're compiling it anyway; it's just automated. And if there's no flag to enable what you want, it's relatively trivial to modify the ebuild. This way you can use Gentoo's package management even when you want options that no one else considered building into the package. There are minor performance improvements involved with compiling only what you want, but they really are minor, and this notion is used as a red herring to dissuade people from using Gentoo. All that said, it is complicated, you will learn a lot (though not as much as from Linux From Scratch), and it may be total overkill for what you want. If it is, I would go with Ubuntu in a heartbeat, and stay away from RedHat/CentOS where possible. (I find the RedHat system configuration style to be difficult to work with from both an administration and a WTF-were-they-thinking point of view, and I find that it's much easier to find up-to-date packages for Ubuntu than any of the others.) If you do want a learning experience, there's nothing like the trial-by-fire of installing a production server that you know nothing about, but if you're interested in a less stressful learning experience, try Linux From Scratch on a virtual machine.) Also, your dad is the man. I'm sure my dad would be trying to convince me to downgrade to Windows 95. Heck, probably a chalkboard. 

freeSSHd sounded like a great idea until I tried to use it. It seems to call home frequently, and often errors out on user console login, generating a popup. In order to enable a number of useful features, it requires console interaction, which creates a tray icon that allows users to kill the service. The Windows authentication is a nice feature, but there's no way to allow a Windows group, only individual users. I eventually discovered that cmd.exe via PsExec works as well, if not better, and I quickly uninstalled freeSSHd. 

You might try using and , which help automate the mounting of the drive some. You also might try using PowerShell, if possible. 

I have servers named like , and I regularly log into them as . Recently, these hostnames started resolving to 127.0.53.53. It turns out that ICANN recently enabled the TLD. In addition, every request that goes to the nameservers get resolved to 127.0.53.53 instead of coming back as NXDOMAIN, which would allow resolution to continue to work properly. (I'm guessing the point behind this is to let people know that their stuff will break worse before those start resolving to something real.) How can I avoid having to type in my domain name for every host like this? Is this still biting you occasionally? I couldn't find a list of new TLDs and when they were added, so I set one up myself: $URL$