Well, there is a service: Google Latitude, that even if they are using only a browser, can pinpoint most people fairly accurately. Even though he was not near any hotspots, there was a previous poster, who said they pinned him down to within 100 feet. Here is how they do it: $URL$ 

Go to Options>Local Resources>Keyboard and try setting "apply Windows key combinations" to "On the remote computer". 

There could be something out there, but I really don't think so. You could create a shortcut to your desktop and put it in the root of \tsclient to shorten the process. 

Follow these examples in this Microsoft document: $URL$ Based on your question, unless you are working on registry permissions, subinacl is the wrong command to use, and will make things more complicated. 

The details we really need are related to his laptop, but the only way will be is if his wireless network card can be updated with an international version of the firmware. Without details as to his computer model and specific network card, I cannot even tell you if it exists. Based on your comment, there do not appear to be any firmware updates of any kind. He will probably need to just buy a wireless network card over there, and use that one. $URL$ 

It means more than one thing: It can mean software similar to the link below, which is designed to allow you to circumvent common limits on e-mail attachments (often only 10 MB), allowing you to transfer large attachments. $URL$ The other very common meaning to anyone, who uses Outlook is the Microsoft Attachment Manager, which controls what attachments are allowed based on settings since some are more dangerous than others. Up through Outlook 2007 (does not work for 2010), I used to use this excellent program to control my attachments in Outlook: $URL$ $URL$ It can even mean other things as in this link, although this is less standard a meaning: $URL$ 

Screenshot one: "Another user is currently logged on to this computer. If you continue, this user has to be disconnected from this computer. Do you want to continue?" Screenshot two: I clicked yes above, and it says "Please wait for KCotreau-PC\Test (the name of the standard user) to respond". Screenshot three: This is of the screen of the computer being remoted into, and it gives the user, KCotreau-PC\Test, the option to disconnect immediately, do nothing and it will happen anyway in 30 seconds, or to cancel and not allow the incoming connection. 

The registry is a database of all Windows' settings. WMIC is the command-line interface to control Windows Management Instrumentation. 

They can be the same if you are booted into the default load, so default would equal current. For more information, the relevant Google search is "disable Windows Error Recovery" (minus the quotes). $URL$ 

I would say "the most durable" is a hard drive (the mean time between failure for a quality drive is very high, which means it should last for many years, especially if not in constant use), but my choice would be to put it on a CD\DVD, which should last 10 years easily, but they can ultimately degrade eventually. Estimates vary, but 10 years should be fine if they are stored in a cool dark area. If you did choose a hard drive, and your hard drive failed, the data still likely would be recoverable on the platters by a data recovery firm, but that is expensive. I would also choose CD\DVD's over a USB drive. They rarely fail, but I see USB flash drives die all the time. You could store your data for 10 years, plug the device in, and have it fail right there...not likely, but possible. The key is multiple copies in different locations, and to test it from time to time. I have had clients think they had backups, but they did not test them, they had no redundancy (no multiple copies), and they failed. I had one client, whose building burned down...the backups were never taken off site. I had recommended an on-line solution, but it was expensive then, and they were too cheap. 

Since admintech's answer helped some, add these related commands to your try. From an elevate command prompt run these: 

OK, the first thing you need to make sure of is that your Router or other method of updating your DDNS is working. I did and of your domain and it points to . So now on one of your computers, go to $URL$ and make sure it matches that IP address. If it does, you have a router configuration problem. I could not so as of now, the port is actually closed on that IP address. I would make sure that you have a static IP address set internally for the port forwarding, and then see if you can figure out what is wrong with your port forwarding configuration. If you post back some screenshots of the appropriate areas, and the exact model of your router, I can try to guide you more. 

and set the dynamic ports. Make sure you leave a range to allow for multiple connections, as it is probably one per port. 

Windows Live Mail 2011 (and I believe every prior version) has this functionality by default. Click on the area in the screenshot that is dark blue (upper left corner), and click Options>Mail>General tab. Select "Play sound when new messages arrive". The envelope notification should always be on. 

I have found several discussions, and most agree that using Guard Book Pro seems to be the best way (I have no connection with this company). $URL$ Others have opined that maybe it is not the worst thing in the work if your book gets passed around, as that is free publicity. My own two cents would say that if it were a novel especially, this may be a great approach. Novelists usually get rich on their SECOND novel, only because the first one made them famous. $URL$ Lastly, if you want to keep if from spreading, I liked this last idea a lot too: Add the person’s Paypal name and address to every book you send out. That won’t stop everyone either, but it will stop the vast majority of ordinary users. Would you want that info to be passed around? $URL$ There is still no perfect way, but these will minimize your exposure...IF that is ultimately what you really want. 

Simply put, don't do it. If you can't put your computer back on the domain, you will not be able to do much. You also have no idea if there are things they do that you have no idea are going on. 

Rather than just free up space, I am guessing that you have probably two partitions on the same disk, with D: being much larger, and hopefully, with a lot more space. I would use GPARTED, or some other partition manager, and just make C: larger, and solver the problem permanently, as you are sure to keep running low as time goes on. $URL$ In the short term, I am with the guys, who said use CCleaner, but also you can consider moving your swap file, which often takes up a lot of space, especially on newer systems with more RAM. You can also use WinDirStat to look at your files to see if there are any really large ones that may not be necessary. $URL$ 

OK, now I get it. First, I would NEVER recommend that you use the Microsoft native tools to do partitioning. I see people with WAY too many problems. Download Easeus here: $URL$ Then once you open it, Click "Resize/Move Partition" in the left pane. Once the new window opens, you will pull the slider from the very right (the round dot) back to the right leaving the free white space as in the screenshot. Hit OK, then apply the changes (the check mark at the top). After it is committed, make your new partition in the free space using Easeus or the Windows Disk Manager. 

One last thing, your laptop may suffer performance issues is you have drive mappings to the server, and the server is not there (not connected locally or via the VPN). You might want to use scripts to map and unmap drives as necessary. 

I can't speak for all models, but I can for a few that I buy more regularly: Neither Dell nor Lenovo ship disks by default any more. With Dell, you can select it as an option for $3 as you configure it online or tell them you want to buy the disk as you placing the order. I am not sure if you can buy them at time of purchase from Lenovo when configuring online (again, you can probably purchase them when placing your order), but here is a trick: Support will charge you if you wait more than 30 days, but if you call support early on, and tell them you reformatted your disk, or something like that, they will send them for free. 

That "ping 192.168.1.101 = failure" is a major clue. I suspect that either your TCP/IP is goofed up, or your C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\HOSTS file has been changed. First, I would try a simple then and try that again. Second, try updating your wireless driver. That may fix unseen problems. I would then reset my TCP/IP with this command: then reboot. $URL$ As in the comments, I would not rule out a virus either. Scan with Malwarebytes, Superantispyware, and Hitman Pro. 

Here is more on the ports used: $URL$ One more thing to check is in your Network connection's properties. Make sure it is set to default, or enable NetBIOS over TCP/IP. 

I think this is what you want: You do not say if you are using a Pro or home version. If you you have a Pro version, open gpedit.msc (this is not available in home version, but is easier to use) and go to: 

I would call Microsoft support for free since it is related to a Service Pack install. They will probably be able to get to the root of the problem better than trying to solve this on your own, as I these VSS issues tend to be a real killer in my experience. (800) 936-4900 If you do and they solve it, please post back the anwser. 

I cannot help with the specific problem right now, but to answer the general main question, "What is the mechanism that Windows machine 'knows' it is returning from sleep or hibernate?", I can answer that. Computers use the "Advanced Configuration & Power Interface", which is a combination of computer hardware, firmware and driver software to handle power management, and that includes sleeping and hibernation. $URL$ (of particular interest to your question is the section "Power States") $URL$ Here in an in-depth guide regarding computer power management: $URL$ 

I can now confirm that the behavior is the same when there is only one drive, and multiple partitions. 

Let's face it, it sounds like you just simply broke it. If the data is valuable enough, you can try buying a duplicate drive, and swapping the logic board, but otherwise you would probably need a professional data recovery firm with a clean room and significant expertise (costs a lot). 

Of course, a 32-bit OS can only address 4GB, but that does not mean that happens in practice. Many of those addresses are used up by the video memory, and other motherboard components. Check out footnotes 3 + 6 on this document about your system: $URL$ Your system tops out at 3GB, minus the video memory. You will need a 64-bit OS to address more. 

That would not have deleted the file. It is almost certain that it got moved to some location that was the focus of the mouse, while not realizing it. The key is to finding it. I would do a search of both the local drives, and the network drives. You will need to know the name of the file, or try a search sorted by date at a command prompt: 

This will depend on your printer's drivers, but you can check this: When you print, you may be able to change the page setup, and in that, pick the hours you want to print. Look at the following screenshot. If you have to, save it to your computer so you can open it with an image application to make it larger for easier viewing. I clicked "print", and that is the left box, and clicked "page setup", and that is the right box. 

Set the policy "Network Access: Sharing and security model for local accounts" to (Just hit OK: Don't close this out as we will be changing it back). 

The professional version of File Scavenger ($185) can salvage data off even broken RAID drives. That said, because drive 1 was almost full, and 80 GB was written to it, you will almost certainly have lost some data to files being overwritten. However, if there was a lot of one-of-a-kind data, this tool will recover a lot for you. I recovered almost everything off a broken RAID 5 once, including an Exchange (Microsoft e-mail) database. $URL$ In the meantime, do not use the computer, or either disk, as you risk losing more data. You would want to run File Scavenger, or any other data recovery program, from another computer, with the disks you are trying to recover installed as secondary disks. 

The short answer is "No" to "scheduled". If you are in a Microsoft Exchange environment, you could set up a rule to delete it automatically, or in stand-alone Outlook, you can have it deleted it before it goes to the folder, by checking "Permanently delete suspected junk e-mail instead of moving it to the Junk E-mail folder." 

If you run Windows Update, it should return the Deskjet 830C/832C drivers. They have been known to work. If they don't return under Windows Update, post back. 

Your router is reporting that it received 100%, not the host. The host was clearly "Destination host unreachable" because it is unreachable as the computer is off. This is normal behavior, and exactly what I get when I ping an IP address I know is not in use, and has not previously been in use. In this case, the router does not know if the host is reachable. There is one more reply that ping can return and that is "Request timed out", and the difference between this and "Destination host unreachable" is that at some point the IP in question made it into the router's ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) table when it was turned on prior. It knows it WAS reachable, and is reporting now that it can't. Of course Ping can be blocked by a software firewall. The easiest way to check is to turn off the firewall temporarily. 

FTP would require quite a bit from you to make it work...Make one an FTP server, open firewall ports, etc. Just used TeamViewer, and use the File Transfer Option. $URL$ 

If none of that works, I would turn off System Restore, and then re-enable it as that might clean out any bad files in the System Volume Information directory, which is where the errors are being reported from. Immediately after, do a new system restore point. 

There should have been a sticker on the computer somewhere (virtually all Dell home PC's come with the OS installed). That is the OS you are licensed for, but no, a Dell recovery disk does not ask for a key. I agree with Greg, call Dell and give them the service tag, and order a replacement disk for the OS you are legally licensed for. If on the very slim chance it did not come with Windows, you will know so you can buy a legal copy. 

I have done this many times, and I have not had to re-activate any of them. Since the "hardware" has not changed, it does not look at it as having had enough changes to warrant re-activation. 

Well, chances are that it is fried, and you are right, a UPS helps to protect your computer, but only for the connections routed through it, so if your LAN cable does not go through it, it could send a board-killing power spike right to your electronics. I have seen a lightening strike kill every computer in a building through the network cabling. I live in an area with quite a few electrical storms in the summer, and I always unplug any non-essential network cables when a storm is coming, and I even unplug things like my printers totally. So as to the question of whether to fix or start new: There is no question, that I would buy a new computer. The amount you save is more than offset by the faster computer, which you will like and appreciate, but also by the fact that you will be covered by a new warranty for at least a year usually. 

You are basically correct in your rationale, but there is a caveat I will list below. Unless the router gives you some other feature that you really want, or if it was close to your max WAN speed, it is probably overkill. There is always some loss off of the manufacturer's specs, but when you are that far over the max speed of your Internet connection, you are probably golden. You can compare those two and others here (For example, the top-rated router actually has a more professional level interface with more features and settings): $URL$ I just checked further, and while you are right in terms of your Internet connection being a bottleneck, those numbers are for the wireless connection. So if you are transferring files from one computer to another in the house, it will make a big difference. So for Internet to house no big deal, but if you do a lot of local file transfers, it might be worth it.