Apply Lag will notify you when the apply is slow, not just when it has stopped. This may give you too many notifications, but it seems like you could tweak the threshold to limit these. See also: Oracle® Data Guard Concepts and Administration 10g Release 2 (10.2) Oracle® Data Guard Broker 10g Release 2 (10.2) 

LNNVL is an oracle built in function that returns TRUE for conditions evaluating to FALSE or UNKNOWN, and returns FALSE for conditions evaluating to TRUE. My question is what would be the benefit of returning the opposite of the truth condition rather than just handling the NULL values? For example, suppose you have an Emp table with StartCommission and CurrentCommission columns which may contain nulls. The following returns only rows with neither value null: 

If you face the above error set to some higher value. Otherwise in my opinion increasing it to some higher value will not allow you to quickly load a 700MB file. 

Yes you can use MyISAM for storing the geo location as they support the spatial data types.For more information please look Saptial Datatypes in MySQL And You can also use the mix of engines there is no issues on that.. 

The effective maximum table size for MySQL databases is usually determined by operating system constraints on file sizes, not by MySQL internal limits. Have a look at the link for your reference Limits on Table Size. 

You might be able to do the INSERT into Payemnts_To_Charges in one SQL statement, but I'm not sure it would be worth it. It seems like this would be easier to build, debug, and maintain in procedural code. Something like this: 

If the number of tables is too long then you'll need to use pl/sql, which may include the dynamic SQL mustaccio mentioned. 

Another option with it's own limiations would be to use the negative of the sequence value for the second entry. 

As the comments indicate, you need to understand normalization. Without too much theory, when you want a list for a particular object in a database here are some possibilities: 

In the end I used datareader and datawriter roles to give access to the data. Then granted VIEW DEFINITION with the below proc. Will need to remember to maintain this... Thanks all. 

I am automating rebuild and reorganise indexes using T-SQL. I run into problems with indexes that cannot be rebuilt online. Primarily this happens because ntext/nvarchar columns are included. Is there a way to programmatically identify them as part of this statement? So kind of addition to the WHERE predicate 

I've inherited a situation where I have SQL Server 2005 Standard 32bit running on Windows Server 2008 R2 64bit. When I come to install SSRS components I'm warned that "Failed to find the ASP.Net Version Registration with Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS)." In IIS 7 and above, each application pool can run in 32bit mode. If I change all application pools into 32bit mode will this solve the problem? Are the better alternative solutions? Thanks in advance. 

It looks like the OP was attempting to solve the problem using a recursive subquery. This won't work in 10g because that functionality wasn't added until 11.2, but in 11.2+ the following would also be a valid solution to the problem. 

There seems to be an issue with the mixture of ANSI and Oracle style joins as well as the referencing of a cross joined table in a subquery. Converting/removing these constructs, you should end up with something like this: 

There are problems that will occur if a session with a different date format runs the code. Statement Failure 

In mysqld section of my.cnf add a line and then restart MySQL server using . Take backup. Restore it on other server and verify the contents. 

but while selecting the result i am getting invalid output. where budgetID is Primay key bigint and StartDate is datetime and modifiedBy bigint. AND 

Initially we will have same table structure and data on slave as well , but assume you created a on column on slave, and someone inserted id value as 2 on master on master the insertion would be successful but it will fail on slave as value 2 already exists there and the column is primary key indexed. So the insertion will fail and replication will break. 

This section of documentation uses the term “User Processes” to refer to the client processes that connect to an Oracle database. If you read down the page further it describes the two types of processes that run the Oracle database server code – Server Processes and Background processes. Like DCookie I have heard Server Processes referred to as User Processes, hence the confusion. The 11.2 Concepts Guide uses much better wording (emphasis mine): 

The code doesn't handle to presence of an existing column named XXX. You might consider at least making the name a bit more obscure. Perhaps a quoted string of 30 mixed case letters and numbers. Even better you could handle the name exception and try a different name. 

I'm investigating a problem with query notifications. The platform is SQL Server 2008 R2 (SP1) - 10.50.2500.0 (X64) Standard Edition. .NET errors show a problem reported from SqlNotificationInfo Enumeration ($URL$ ) as: Event Reason: Isolation. During tracing I notice that the audit login event immediately preceding the Broker conversation shows: 

In combination with a server side trace to collect a Blocked Process Report. I understand that this activity will incur a performance hit, I'd like to find some way of quantifying what this will be. 

I have a SQL server cluster that is often reaching 100% CPU out of working hours. I want to gather some information to help troubleshooting when the actual condition is taking place. I'm thinking of gathering info from sys.dm_exec_requests for example. Question: How can i trigger this information gathering to take place based on CPU utilization condition For Example: Insert the results of sys.dm_exec_requests into a table when CPU > 95% suggestions for anything else I should gather are very welcome! It appears that I might be able to do this with alerts, but I need to better understand the counters as my example doesn't fire, despite CPU >5% 

In your code add lines as follows here i will insert those record into log_table which you was selecting please look the line /**Added by abdul */ 

I am very new to mysql-cluster.I downloaded the binaries and was trying to configure it on my local machine. Can anybody suggest how to install it on single machine with the 1 management node,2 data nodes,1 sql node. Also what are the importance of each type of node? I need the basics steps to install the mysql-cluster.As I have installed it by seeing some website and stuck in between i am getting an error as 

I've been tasked with identifying any blocking happening on a production server. My plan to achieve this is to use 

I'm trying to work out a way of listing the drives that a particular instance of SQL Server is "aware" of, and understand the process. I can run which gives me a list of drives, but when I look in the GUI (Eg. Databases | Restore Database | From device | Add ) the list of available drives is far fewer. By what process does SQL server become "aware" of a drive and is there any way to problematically determine the drives it is aware of? Thanks in advance!