On Windows (7) the list is stored in the file. Open it and look for a line that says . You should see the list below it 

I'd like to use Picasa as my picture management application in OS X (version 10.6.7) / 2010 Mac Mini. But I haven't found a way to use Apple Remote with it (for pausing/resuming the slideshow and manually moving "left" and "right" through the images). None of the buttons seem to respond. Is there a way to make the remote play nice with Picasa? It's working with iPhoto 

Use the built-in Backup Tool. You can select which folders and/or albums will be included in the backup Create a new backup set and select . Then select your Dropbox folder as the destination. 

Update: This should do the trick (reads all the lines from and rearranges them to file the way you wanted): 

I'm using Firefox 4. Whenever I'm prompted to save a file then the folder is where I saved something the previous time. How could I achieve that when I'm downloading for example an .exe file then FF "knows" that I want to save it every time to Folder1. But all .zip files would go into Folder2 etc. FF add-ons are acceptable. 

Is there a group policy to hide the language selection on the Windows XP taskbar? I need to set this on several machines so don't want to go hiding it one by one. 

Office Communicator uses the same password that you use to login to Windows (it's tied to your organization). I think the only way is to change your Windows password using Ctrl +Alt+Del 

In my case it happened if running the 64-bit kernel (see this Apple support article if you're not sure how to check it). Here is a Cisco support document that states: 

I have just installed Windows 7 Pro 32 bit to a 2010 Mac mini (using Bootcamp). I also have the current (2nd gen) Apple Remote. How can I wake the machine from sleep under Windows 7 with the remote? I tried all the buttons on the remote but no luck. Under OS X I can wake it up with the remote without problems Update: 

Open the first image. Zoom to the desired level and position. On the IrfanView menu bar, select and Browse other images. 

You should not have spaces before and after the "=" sign when setting the variables. And as Ignacio said, variables should end and start with % So this should work correctly: 

Did you install only drivers from the Lenovo site or also the ThinkVantage software? Namely the "ThinkVantage System Update" - it should find the missing drivers and download/install them. 

It changes all files in that folder (but excludes folders from renaming) to format PathToFolder - Filename You can add if you have nested folders: 

Format all the necessary cells as "Text" in the worksheet you're going to paste to. And then use Paste special->values That should do the trick 

P.S. When you set the variable the first time then the entire history will get the time stamp of the moment the variable was set. 

The solution: hold 3 and 2 simultaneously during startup to boot using the 32-bit kernel (link to Apple support article). The Cisco VPN client should open and function just fine now. 

So you're still syncing everything to your Dropbox account but you can select what you sync "back" to your computer(s) There'a nice walkthrough with screenshots at How-to Geek 

As for "Why" - the main Excel window is actually just a container for you worksheets. Below the main minimize, maximize and close buttons is another set of the same buttons. If you click the bottommost minimize button then only the active worksheet will be minimized, but not the whole Excel window. Probably that's why it doesn't behave the way other programs do. 

I really recommend Powershell for such tasks. It's integrated with Windows 7 and you can download it for older versions of Windows. The command is: 

Are there any FTP clients which I could use in terminal and would show the progress (some kind of a progress bar or just the percentage)? 

How to emulate the Firefox (I'm using v3.6) address bar search redirection in Google Chrome? For example, if I type... 

...to the address bar and press Return in Firefox then it redirects me straight to $URL$ (and I've not visited the page before) When I try this is Chrome then I just get the google search page $URL$ So seems like Firefox redirects automatically to the highest ranking search result URL - is there a setting or add-on for Chrome to achieve the same behaviour? 

It happens because the arguments contain spaces (for example, ). In such cases you must escape the quotes around the arguments. The escape character in PowerShell is the grave-accent(`). So the command should look something like this: 

Be sure to run on a test folder first or just add to the end of the command to see the potential results without actually destroying your data :) 

I just found out that if you select 5 or more items and press Enter then it shows a warning dialog which contains the number. Something like "Are you sure you want to open X items?" (the wording could be a bit different, not using English Outlook). I can then just click "No" and they will not be opened. 

I think a simple xcopy approach will also duplicate the folder structure of the source drive (which I would not want in this case). To loop through all folders and subfolders and copy files to one specified folder without subdirectories try this (add files types to your liking): 

It'll recurse through and delete everything except folder . You can add exclusions, both folders and files, as you wish. For example: 

This looks like a known Windows 10 issue and should be fixed when build 10565 is pushed to everyone. You can join the Windows Insider Program to get "Insider builds" in advance. 

You should use "Contribute" (left folder is the one on your computer, right folder is the one on the external disk). 

I'm in an Active Directory environment (Exchange 2003). I'm using Outlook 2007. I want to copy a contact's e-mail address to another application. The display names in our organization are "Lastname, Firstname" so don't contain the actual address. When I double-click on it to open a contact's properties->E-mail Addresses tab then I can see the SMTP address but can't copy any information (tried Ctrl+C and right-clicking). How to copy the e-mail address? There's got to be a better way than actually rewriting it letter by letter every time 

Would it be okay to plug a 90W Thinkpad power brick to a X200? It originally came with a 65W adapter but it has stopped working. So I also have a 90W adapter that came with a T61 - can I use it without any problems? 

You should see it when you click on the "Start" button and select All Programs. Actually there are two Startup folders. Current User: C:\Documents and Settings\%USERNAME%\Start Menu\Programs\Startup All Users: C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Start Menu\Programs\Startup The current user folder only starts programs when that user logs in whereas all users will run regardless of who logs in. 

If you're using Chrome on Windows then you can create a copy of your Chrome shortcut (rename it to , for example). Right-click on it and select . Add to the end of the field. The end result should look something like this: 

You should find the information underneath the router. Look for label "Model no:". The text contains the version number 

If you have rights to install software onto the machine then I suggest you try WinDirStat or other similar program to visually map what's actually using up the disk space. Then it might be easier to pinpoint the culprit(s) and do something about it. 

There's no such functionality in Windows. But you could use 3rd party software for changing folder colors. Some options are: 

IrfanView has a nice batch processing tool built in to it. You can achieve exactly what you asked for with it. 

Update: the code below should do what you wanted. It removes all files except *.svn-base AND does not delete ANY folders. Some notes: is an alias of , just to save some space. Added parameter to since you seem to have some kind of permissions problem. 

I'm going to reinstall Windows XP on a used machine soon. The data on the hard drive is heavily fragmented at the moment. I'm going to format the drive when reinstalling Windows so is there any sense in defragmenting the drive now? 

This happens with IE8/Firefox, in Chrome the files seem to open correctly. If I click OK and save it to my computer then I can open the local file without any problems. It's also possible to uncheck "Display PDF in browser" setting in Adobe Reader's preferences and then it's possible to open it through the browsers (IE/FF). But I can't instruct every client who'd like to view it.. Is there something wrong with this specific file? What could be done to fix it? I only have this PDF and not the original document which was used to create it. 

Is any version of PowerShell included in "vanilla" installation of Windows Vista? Or must it be downloaded/installed separately? 

Using Ubuntu's GUI I can add/remove/edit Startup apps from System->Preferences->Startup Applications menu. Now if I only have SSH access to that machine, how can I edit/add these apps? In what file(s) is the configuration stored? Can you post an example how to add, say, VLC player? 

The article is quite old so does not mention Windows 7 but I just tried it myself on Windows 7 Professional (32 bit) and can confirm the behaviour. The CHM format is actually compiled HTML. The character signifies an anchor in HTML so probably the CHM viewer fails to resolve the path properly and to retrieve the content. 

Unfortunately this option does not exist in Outlook 2007. Here is a blog post that suggests a workaround using VBA: 

How can an end-user find out what the requirements are? (The obvious solution would be to contact IT but let's say it's not possible) 

If the option is not available then make sure that the option is checked in the advanced options (->->). Update: Found a blog post by The IE Support Team on how to force Windows Explorer to be the default handler for FTP. You must edit the registry: 

I have not found a way to achieve this exact behaviour but here's a possible workaround using the keyboard: 

The possibilities in Powerpoint are really limited and I have not found a way to directly do it on the slides. But here's a workaround using MS Word: 

I resolved this by opening the local file in Foxit PDF Editor and just re-saving without changing anything. Seems to be opening within all browsers now