Appears to be not possible (at least with current implementation). You can bring up the console and do it manually if its really necessary though. 

Active directory is essentially a closely tied implementation of LDAP and Kerberos by microsoft, along with some customized tools and additional 'functionality' built on top. So it would be correct to say that kerberos is PART of a windows domain, but not that kerberos is equivalent to a windows domain. 

I have an ASA5520 that is set up to send logs to a splunk syslog server. the setup works for a while, usually around 24 hours or so, but then stops until either the logging is reconfigured (twiddling the ports) or the ASA is restarted. what should i be looking at to resolve this issue? im not sure if its the splunk syslog daemon ignoring connections or the ASA that gets messed up and stops sending. id like to enable the 'dont pass traffic without logging working' option, but without a stable connection to syslog, thats a non starter. tried so far: TCP and UDP, different ports, changing the logging level 

Heaviest things in the bottom. This is almost always your UPS. This also means that larger servers need to go in the bottom. This also makes it MUCH easier to install. Instead of having 3 guys hold it up while a 4th screws it in, usually it only takes one person to help you get the first couple screws and after that youre home free Dont use cable management arms - they block airflow. I was a big fan of them until someone pointed that out. Use velcro or zipties to secure your power cables to your power supplies so that things dont jiggle out or get knocked out if someone is working on another system. For a single rack (or even two) mount a switch central to the other devices, facing the rear. even if you have a 42U rack you wont fill up a single 48 port device unless you have ILO/DRAC/etc devices in everything, and then youre going to spend more rack space on the patching equipment anyway. longer cables with velcro will allow you enough distance to pull things out without disconnecting everything and still keep it on the neater side. 

why not use apache/lighttpd as a proxy/caching server and php interpreter at the same time? lighttpd as caching proxy: $URL$ apache as caching proxy: $URL$ 

is it possible that something in custom_require.rb is being called relatively, but since you are running from rc.local there is no defined (or at least not properly defined) $PATH, versus when you log in bash (or whatever shell) sets your path and then it runs fine? 

in putting together a new installation, one of the requirements is that we use fiber to the desktop. we are going to use multimode, but im not sure which connector. is there a material (ie cost) difference between SC and LC? what about durability? It would seem to me that the fragile part (the fiber) doesnt benefit much from either connector, so is either OK? any other advice or things that seem obvious in hindsight would also be appreciated. edited: also, if anyone has some insight as to which 1000baseSX nics one should avoid (if any) that would be most appreciated. 

Not clear from your question, but i think what you want is called multihoming. its trivial in linux. never tried it in windows, but it cant be that difficult. $URL$ Linux (from the wiki article): $URL$ Windows (again, from the wiki article): $URL$ 

Im trying to get some users printing from a remote citrix server at another company. It seems as though they require local administrator privileges to do so, however Ive been instructed not to give them that. They can print normally from their desktop without issue. Is there some special permission to allow citrix to print through to local/network printers short of granting local admin to these users? 

80/20 rule is probably your best bet. see: $URL$ get the windows server up and serving with the correct settings, then swap the proportions after most of the leases have renewed on the windows server. 

In similar situations ive reinstalled the application and then uninstalled it. Unless something really heinous happened during the original setup, like someone manually editing install paths or something, the uninstaller should take care of everything thats already there on its own. 

one of my DCs is missing a single GPO object - all others are there and appear to be the correct version. there are no errors related to DFS or FRS in event viewer that i can find. the server in question is 2008, although there are both 2003 and 2008 DCs in this domain. repadmin shows no errors that i can find. update: ok so now its looking more like GPOs created on a specific server (one of the 2008 boxes) arent syncing out to the others. i thought i had seen this GPO on other servers, but its not there now. dcdiag and repadmin show no errors besides the userenv GPO processing errors still, but userenv is complaining all over the logs on multiple machines update2: solved - this machine was out of sync and wasnt syncing using frs at all - these errors werent showing up in eventvwr for some reason. performed scandisks on both drives at startup, and it started logging ntfrs error 13552, 13555. was able to rebuild using BURFLAG registry key. 

How does a routing and remote access server pick up routes to advertise to clients, and where can a list of routes being provided be reviewed? One of our users is reporting that the server is advertising a route which is valid, but has never been entered in the static routes section of the RRAS server, or told/provided to them at any time. In fact the static route section is currently empty. RIP is not configured at this time, so its not coming from there that I can tell. we are using PPTP, not l2tp. 

It may depend on how your application works - if it uses absolute URIs in places, and those point to something that users behind the proxy cant get to - that may be your problem. Say you have proxy P, server S, and the user. the server has a given hostname (possibly more) and one of those is probably associated with the webserver (lets call it server1). Users may or may not be able to make requests directly to server1. In all likelihood, with a reverse proxy, they have to make requests to the proxy, and that in turn queries your server. They see $URL$ - while the app actually lives at $URL$ (or some other arbitrary path). If your app is configured in such a way as to make direct reference to $URL$ and the proxy doesnt pick up on that and modify the code that gets sent to the user to so that it directs to $URL$ it will break functionality. Kind of a stab in the dark here, but i ran into a similar issue with Sharepoint. 

im hesitant to try bringing up another duplicate site (a best practice i read in a sharepoint book) to support both integrated and basic, but i dont fully understand how sharepoint works, and im loathe to break it again. additionally, since i cant make the one we have work the way i want, im skeptical ill be able to do so for an additional site. anyone have any magic that might help me out of this? edited to include the error below: Error: Connector:Unspecified HTTP error. HRESULT=0x800A1518 - Client:An unanticipated error occurred during the processing of this request. HRESULT=0x800A1518 - Client:Sending the Soap message failed or no recognizable response was received HRESULT=0x800A1518 - Client:Unspecified client error. HRESULT=0x800A1518 faultcode=Client faultstring=Connector:Unspecified HTTP error. faultactor= detail=Connector:Unspecified HTTP error. HRESULT=0x800A1518 - Client:An unanticipated error occurred during the processing of this request. HRESULT=0x800A1518 - Client:Sending the Soap message failed or no recognizable response was received HRESULT=0x800A1518 - Client:Unspecified client error. HRESULT=0x800A1518 

OpenVPN does some odd stuff with routing (as compared to other VPN solutions) - the connection the clients get is on a /30 network for each individual client for easier compatability with windows, so thats why youre seeing the 252 netmask. you can change this behavior if all your clients use linux. does that cisco router know about these routes, and whats the default route for all the boxes on the internal network? i had a similar issue where our core router was getting all the traffic and then dropping it because a) it was non-routable addresses and b) it didnt know what the proper route was. what i suspect you need to do is create a static route for this whole 10.10.11.0/24 subnet in your cisco router with the gateway as the 192.168.1.X address of the openvpn server. ensure packet forwarding (ie routing) is enabled in the openvpn box, and you should be good. TL;DR: Routing requires definition in both directions (either static or dynamic), and it sounds like you need to add a route to your cisco box telling it where to find 10.10.11.0/24 

Is there a way to change the block/cluster size when formatting a disk using unattend.xml & Windows Deployment Services? It keeps defaulting to 1024k, and I need something smaller. 

Have you checked to make sure there arent any PAM errors? just because it works from putty doesnt mean authentication isnt the problem. 

This has me beat... we have microsoft dynamics with a sharepoint business portal interface using sharepoint services 3.0. im trying to configure the sharepoint interface to accept basic auth, so that reverse proxying works. ive found a couple of places that need changes, both in sharepoint and IIS, but whenever i switch it over, certain pieces of business portal start to error out - things like the project communicator and expense reports section. basically, it looks like anything that appears in an IFRAME doesnt work. while we dont use these pieces yet, we will, so this is basically a showstopper for me. so far ive tried: 

Theres a huge Wiki article on this here: $URL$ Instead of turning on Rewrite engine a simple html file like: 

are you downloading binaries, or compiling from source? for binary, are you sure the version of glibc matches what you have installed? 

Found it - in syslog setup theres a list of syslog IDs. for this particular alert the ID number is 418001. open that, click suppress, no more message in the log! 

i have a cisco asa5520 in transparent mode. the interface is on the same subnet as some windows machines, which are generating a lot of broadcast traffic that is filling up the logs. is there any way to have it not log that its blocking those packets? its a bunch of these messages: "through-the-device packet to from management-only network is denied: udp src..." im also seeing some of those zeroconf requests that id like to drop logging for. i tried to just put a rule on the management interface, but apparently thats not allowed. it looks like turning the syslog filter up to error might solve both issues, but will i be missing any potentially life saving messages by ignoring the info bits?