If you have many programs, however, going through all of them is unfeasible. A different approach is to open an elevated command prompt, and run the following command: 

Identifying the issues Checking the file you can see the System File Checker tried to repair 7 components, but failed: 

Open the Task Manager. Select the Processes tab, then click View > Select Columns. Enable the Command Line option, and click OK to apply the changes. 

Each subkey is a Globally unique identifier (GUID). The value is what you can use in the syntax, which works regardless of the locale. See the related article below for other possible values (or just check the registry yourself). Examples 

If you want to insert a literal symbol, you need to use its percent-encoded representation: . Further reading 

Not your average shortcut It is a special, so-called advertised shortcut created by Windows Installer which target can't be manually changed: 

Press Win+R, type or paste in the text box, and press Enter. Navigate to the following registry key: 

Windows binaries A few old versions can be found in the official repository. Here are some of the newest binaries compatible with Windows XP and later, both official and unofficial: 

Resolution You can perform a system check-up by running the command. In case any system file is missing or corrupted, the program will try restoring it. When required you will be prompted to insert the Windows XP installation CD. Note This procedure require administrator rights. Workaround If you have access to a Windows XP SP3 setup media, you can get the original file by copying the file inside the folder. Then you have to decompress it by running the following commands from a command prompt: 

Open a command prompt as administrator. Type or paste the following command, and replace with the actual path of the screen capturing tool executable of your choice. Then press Enter. 

The command doesn't treat spaces a delimiters when command extensions are enabled (by default, they are). It's a good idea to use quotes anyway: 

Get a copy of version of the MSE installer. Any language will do, see the file information below. Log on with an administrator account, and extract the file using 7-Zip. Open the folder, and extract though 7-Zip. Rename the extracted file to . Copy to the MSE install folder (e.g. ). Open a command prompt, type or paste the following command, and press Enter: 

Proceed with the installation. When the installer has finished you'll find the Verity tools in the following folder: 

How it works The script takes three parameters: the first one is the target device ID (the built-in webcam); the second one is the trigger device ID (the external webcam); the third one is the polling interval (in seconds), and it's optional. At first the script will make sure there are enough parameters, and that isn't missing. When no polling interval is specified, the default value will be used instead (15 seconds). The value is used to determine how many seconds should elapse between each device check. Lowering the value means the detection is faster, which in turns means there's more system overhead. Before trying a different value, test it with the default one and see how it goes. Either way, I wouldn't recommend going below 10 seconds. The batch script requires generic device IDs, which use the following format: 

The media cache can be limited to a fixed amount of bytes either using a switch or by enabling the related policy setting. You can't really limit the application cache or the GPU shader cache; you can just disable them through switches. There's no way to tweak the rest. Further reading 

Handmade customization With some work you can bend the rules, and pick a custom font. The following steps apply to Window 7 and later. 

Temporary workaround If you just need to do a one-time change to your file, you might briefly disable the Host-based Intrusion Protection System (HIPS) provided by the antivirus: 

Bonus - Checking folder existence In case you want to check whether specific folders exist, you can use the following command: 

Your batch script has some issues. What you're trying to do is to append a number to the end of the original files in order to change their MD5 hashes. However: 

Viewing partition data All Verity products come bundled with some maintenance and troubleshooting tools. Among them there's and . The first one can be used to display the contents of the word lists; the latter can be used to display indexed document fields. browse The program accepts a single parameter, which is the path of a file: 

Open an elevated command prompt. Run one of the following commands depending on the Windows version you're running: 

Add-ons Disabled add-ons might not be truly disabled, even after restarting. By restarting Firefox in safe mode (Help > Restart with Add-ons Disabled) you can troubleshoot whether some add-on is to blame, and then remove it entirely if necessary. Further reading 

When the system is hibernated, the event logger service (and everything else) is stopped; after resuming, the event logger service will be started again. Once you know when the last event was logged right before hibernating and the time you left your laptop, you can do some math to get a rough estimate. 

Each package has an associated file which lists the bundled files. In order to determine where each file is stored, run the following command by replacing and with the actual values: 

After checking whether the trigger device (external webcam) is connected, the script will either disable or enable the target device (built-in webcam), unless it's disabled/enabled already. Scheduling it The only thing we need now is to make the batch script start automatically at log on. 

Since Windows 2000, the registry value can be used to remap a key to another or disable it entirely. The scan code mappings are stored in the following registry key: 

According to my tests, the free space meter will consider the disk or partition almost full when the used space/total capacity ratio (rounded up to two decimal places) is higher or equal to . The low disk space notification is more complex: 

As you can see, the category is User Account Management, which generates audit events related to user accounts. Unlike others, this specific event doesn't seem to be documented. Disable all audit policies To confirm whether the built-in security auditing feature is the culprit, you can temporarily clear all audit policies, thus disabling them. 

Microsoft Update Catalog Apart from updates, the Microsoft Update Catalog also provides driver packaged in cabinet archives. Such drivers are meant to be installed manually after unpacking them, e.g using 7-Zip. 

This can be confirmed by Process Monitor. Whether it's intentional or not, there are a few exceptions: 

Note While the syntax is not case-sensitive, you need to type the , , and operators in all capital letters. Further reading 

Batch script B - Build version check As an alternative you could check the Windows build version, which is faster then the first script because you don't need to enumerate all updates. Since it uses a registry value, it might not be as reliable. 

Workaround Your system might not be fully compatible with Windows 8/8.1. If you don't need hibernation, you can turn it off entirely: 

Opening shortcuts In order to edit a shortcut you obviously need to open it first, and that proves to be tricky. In some cases you can force programs into loading shortcut files by using a command-line argument: 

Solution When you use the User Accounts control panel applet, you can't actually change the logon user name but just the full, display name. This way the name can be changed at any time without side effects (e.g. classic user logon). 

Shortcut inspection When the program is installed for everyone, the shortcut full path is . If you check the properties you can see the target field is grayed out and cannot be changed. This is because it's a particular, so-called advertised shortcut created by Windows Installer: 

Security audits are divided into different categories, such as registry and file system access, failed logon attempts, and user accounts changes. Certain categories are enabled by default. To get a list of the available ones you can run the following command from an elevated command prompt: 

Troubleshooting Windows Media Player issues While reinstalling is not possible, you can still try to fix what's broken. Here are generic articles that might be useful: 

Quick analysis When browsing folders, Windows Explorer won't display dates outside a specific range: 

Press Win+R, type or paste , and press Enter. Click the key. Click the File > Load Hive menu, and select the registry hive file (eg. ). Choose an unique name, and click OK. 

Font rendering It's a feature. Actually, it's not just the underline. For example, compare the before and after: they're slightly different. By zooming the picture you can spot other subtle differences: 

If that doesn't work, it means your laptop keyboard doesn't use standard media key scancodes, and you'll have to resort to AutoHotKey or similar, as suggested by @DBZ_A. 

Locate and open the folder named after a culture name which matches your system locale (e.g. for US English). Copy the file to the desktop, and rename it to . Start ResHacker, click File > Open, choose the All files () type, and select the file you copied earlier. Expand the folder called in the right pane, and then expand its subfolder which should be named . Click the item available there. Select all text, copy it, and paste into a blank Notepad document. Open the replace dialog by clicking Edit > Replace. Let's say you want to replace Calibri, 11 pt with Verdana, 12 pt. In that case you would use the following find/replace strings: Find what 

Remarks Even if you were able to solve the problem, there are other things worth mentioning. Change the current folder 

Additional information In case the cache folder takes more space than reported, that means there are some leftovers that were left behind. The easiest way to get rid of them is to close the browser, and manually delete all cached files. A brand new cache will be created next time the browser is started. When it comes to group policies, manually editing the registry is not supported: 

Solution You're not supposed to manually edit the content of the registry key at all. Whenever the cache gets refreshed, the descriptions are read again from the related executable files, and your changes are reverted back. Aside from patching the description using e.g. ResHacker, there's a built-in feature which can be useful in this case: 

Folder encryption Windows does not really encrypt folders: when you enable the encryption option, all you're doing is forcing new files created inside to be automatically encrypted. Quoting Wikipedia: 

In such cases the computer should have a Certificate of Authenticity (COA) label, found on the case. In laptops it's usually located on the the bottom or inside the battery compartment. Restore Windows 7 The easiest way to restore a working copy of Windows 7 is through HP system recovery: 

Batch script Here's a script which does just that. It has four parameters, the last one being optional: the source folder; the destination folder; the target size in bytes; the file extensions that should be matched. All parameters but the size require quotes. 

Proof of concept As you probably know, Windows XP with SP3 is not supported anymore. By running XP SP2 or earlier, you're missing many fixes and some new features, too. Either way, plan to switch to a supported operating system whenever possible. If needed, you could still run XP in an isolated, virtual machine with no network access. In case you're stuck with XP for whatever reason, consider at least updating it to SP3 and installing all subsequently released updates to reduce the attack surface as much as possible. Ensure any third-party software is up-to-date as well. Back to the actual issue, SHA-2 wasn't available in Windows XP until SP3, where some limited support was introduced. Microsoft didn't backport the changes to earlier releases, and the only way to get the same results is by replacing the main cryptographic libraries (namely and ) with newer versions. There's no guarantee the resulting Frankenstein Edition would work as expected, and side effects might easily ensue. In the end, installing SP3 is the way to go. The steps below were run on a clean Windows XP installation without service packs, but no extended testing was performed. They're for demonstration purposes only, so do not treat the following as a solution - especially in a production environment: 

Workaround Although it's not an actual solution, uninstalling Visual Studio can serve as a temporary workaround. Before doing so, you might try to remove just the Application Verifier by following these steps: 

Open with the default browser If you just want to load the default browser (which might not be Internet Explorer), you can use the following instead: 

Junction points Yes, that's normal. Those aren't standard shortcuts, rather junctions points used for compatibility reasons: 

OEM license No. The Windows 8.1 license you have is an OEM license, and is tied to the motherboard. The VM has different hardware, and counts as a whole new machine. This means you won't be able to activate Windows using the same license. The easiest way to preserve your activation is to dual boot, indeed.