You can't run a batch script hidden if run it like this. But it's possible with a little VBS. Just execute the VBS file and it will run the Script hidden 

No your connection on the virtual Windows XP machine will not be directly available on the phyiscal Ubuntu installation. The host system (phyisical machine which is running the virtual machines) does not have access to the network connections of a VM. 

I dont have much experience with the MS SQL Express Databases on virtual machines but I think you just ran into the hardware restrictions of the MS SQL Express Edition. I assume that your physical server had 1 cpu with 2 cores. The MS SQL Express 2008 (and I think 2005 also) do support only ONE phyisical cpu but mulitple cores. A VM recognizes each vCPU's as a single CPU and not as an additional core. So the sqlserver.exe process is limited to 1 vCPU. 

run postmap with more verbose output and post the output here. Hopefully you get some useful information out of it. 

Hm the role management tool only exists on Windows Server 2008. It's the replacement of Add / Remove Windows Components of the Windows Server 2003. Is it possible that you need at least SP2 on your windows server 2003? Or try to install the newest .Net Framework 2.0 Release prior to install the 3.5 release. Maybe you will find some usefull information in the 3.5 Readme: readme 

I have done this with one printer and two different drivers (one PostScript, and one PCL). It should work about the same for using the same driver with the following caveat: Windows may not show both queues if it determines they are using the same port and driver (see the article below). You can sidestep this problem by creating another IP printer port on the server with the same address. I'm not sure if this caveat applies if the print server is a different server. It sounded like you were going to use the same server, but it should work fine either way. MSKB 2015694: Printers installed using the same driver and port on Windows are grouped as one when viewed within Devices and Printers 

First off, I will assume that your printer is properly implementing DHCP and DDNS updates, but this is not always true. I am also assuming that the original lease it obtained has not expired yet. If you are getting this message after expiration, then you might be dealing with an improper DHCP implementation. Your printer obtained a lease of 192.168.0.20, and was told that it would be valid for X number of days. Some time before that, you changed the range to 10.10.10.0/24. The printer still has an address lease that is technically valid, although undesirable. During a lease, it is common for a device to request a lease renewal and/or a DDNS update. The lease renewal is obviously declined, since the original address is no longer valid for new leases, but that doesn't mean the printer will stop using it. It might not request a new address until the original lease has fully expired. This is not a bug. The name update seems to be what is triggering the error, though. Depending on your configuration, it could be the printer requesting the name renewal, or the DHCP server requesting the renewal on behalf of the printer. The name renewal is being rejected since the address it's tied to is no longer a valid address on the server. The server parts are smart enough to know this, but the device will hang on until the bitter end before trying again, and probably succeeding. The renewal process is basically the client or its agent asking if it may please continue using this name on that address. The server gets to answer "Yes," or "no," but does not get to say "No, but use this one instead." The shortcut is to get your printer to release its lease and get a new one. You can usually do this through the web interface, or sometimes a power cycle. 

You've got a pretty neat setup here ;-) Are the vCPU's used to their max capacity? What are the graphs for the CPU wait, CPU ready and CPU usage telling you? As more vCPU's you add to a VM as more overhead is generated on the host system to manage the vCPU's and map them to the physical one. At some point you wont get more performance out of a VM by simply adding more vCPU's. Did you check if there is a performance issue on the iSCSI SAN? Check the graphs disk read and disk write requests and of course the disk read and write rates and compare them to the ones of the phyiscal cluster member. Maybe some of the values can point you into the right direction. 

After debugging this issue for nearly a week we've installed the newest NIC drivers. Unfortunately this didn't really help either so a Windows Repair from the Windows Server 2003 SP1 installation CD was executed and the Service Pack 2 installed again. And suddenly it works ;-) I'm pretty sure that some dll's were corrupted. 

I am looking for a PCI or PCI Express based Network card with builtin VPN possibilities or a network card which allows to flash its firmware vyatta, ipcop , routeros or any similar os. The idea is to allow remote support of a server system (access to its oob interface and os) even though the systems operating system is unable to boot correctly and setup the VPN connection by itself. May this little drawing helps explaining it: 

I'm afraid that you're going to have to approach this from the client end. Changing the timeouts is only going to help clients the next time they check in, which is usually after half the existing lease time, or sometimes during boot. You can approach this by manually forcing the clients to check in. You might be able to do this by tweaking some group policy settings, or by running a script to bulk "ipconfig /registerdns" on a bunch of clients. If you insist on doing this from the server end of things, it should be possible to write a custom program to read the entries from a DHCP lease export, and register the addresses, but be sure to run it as the same account that DHCP uses for registrations, or else it may have trouble updating the entries in the future. 

You have installed the trust list. Now it's trying to grab the CA certificate. You're probably going to have to grab that certificate manually as well. It appears that this is the certificate chain it is trying to obtain: $URL$ Download it and import it into your computer's Trusted Root Certification Authorities. It is mentioned in this TechNet blog: $URL$ 

Is your DFS-R staging area on the same volume as the DFS-R folder? For performance reasons, it should be. If not, then DFS-R is having to copy the file from staging volume to the destination volume rather than doing a straight move. Here's where the speculation kicks in. It may be that during this copy operation, DFS-R is creating a sparse file, and then filling the blocks, and "unsparsing" it when complete. If something interrupts this process (like antivirus, Undelete, or some other file filter driver program scanning the DfsrPrivate folder), then you may end up with a temporary sparse file that doesn't get filled with its contents. You can test for this behavior by using Process Monitor on the files that are replicating properly and seeing if they are marked/unmarked as sparse at any point in the process. I'm not a fan of mixing 2008 and 2003 when it comes to DFS-R. I was soooo glad to get the last 2003 machine off our DFS tree. 

The encrypted file must be opened by the same user which created it. The encrypted file must be opened on the same computer on which it was created. 

a co-worker of mine absolutely insists that it's possible to mount a drive in windows server 2003 with two letters instead of one. He's not talking about mounting a drive into an empty ntfs - folder. example: use ab:\ instead of a:. I'm pretty sure that's not possible. I'm working with over 300 windows servers and never noticed that kind of feature. I also cant find any knowledge base or technet article which describes that kind of feature. Please tell me if it's possible or not. If it's possible please refer to the corresponding knowledge base or technet articles from microsoft. Thank you very much. 

Also try to deactivate NetBIOS and LMHOSTS for your Network Adapter. You can change the settings in the TCP/IP Properties of the used Network Connection, under Advanced -> WINS. 

It's not possible to get this kind of information with vdf. You can use esxcfg-scsidevs to get thiss kind of information assuming you're running ESX 4.0. on ex 3.x you can try to achieve something similir with esxcfg-vmhbadevs. First get a list of all VMFS volumes with their idenfitifer 

You can also take a look at the XenServer from Citrix. It's like the ESXi freely available. I don't have much experience with the XenServer and don't now it's unlicensed feature set. I would recommend ESXi because the migration of the VM's from the VMware Server to ESXi should be nearly painless (thanks to VMware Converter). Also you already got the basic knowledge about the VMware envionments (naming conventions etc.) VMware will not discontinue ESXi 4 or change it's pricing (basicly free...). At least not in the near future. The end of life of the Vmware server product line wasn't "silently". You just have to know where to look ;-) $URL$ 

This sounds like it could be related to a recent Microsoft update: MS16-072: Security update for Group Policy: June 14, 2016 This update fundamentally changes how GPOs are applied. The cause is summarized well in this snippet from the Microsoft Directory Services Team blog entry: 

You can export the certificate authority database also. Here is the in-depth Microsoft Technet documentation for that. You will want to read it carefully. The table on the first page of the link indicates that migrating from 2008 32-bit to 2008 R2 64-bit is supported. 

I know it's an old question, but I encountered this today as well. Contrary to what was assumed, you actually can set up costs for a site that doesn't have a DC. I do this for some remote sites which are within our enterprise network, but not within my local control. In my case, site C includes our VPN users, and I was using it to steer them to a specific DFS server that has more bandwidth. 

You can force your client to only use one or the other to ensure that you're using Kerberos (or NTLM if you prefer that for some reason). Microsoft has a guide which you may find helpful. It tells how to assess and restrict NTLM usage. Auditing and restricting NTLM usage guide 

DFS namespaces use some referral magic to find if it is on any of the domain controllers -- not just the ones where the namespace is specifically hosted. Non-DFS shares do not have this feature. Normally, you would make each DC a replica for the somecrap namespace by adding them to the Namespace Servers tab on your DFS Management for the namespace. This does not happen automatically when you add a new DC. Otherwise, it will appear to be blank if your computer happens to resolve \my.dom.com to \DC2, if only \DC1 has the namespace shares defined. Your DNS ordering or site setup may be such that it never defaults to the namespace server, so they would always be blank. 

You need to add specific information for update-rc.d to your script. You'll find an example in /etc/init.d/skeleton 

I'm using squirrelmail. It's pretty small and easy to configure. The "best" solution depends on your needs and personal taste ;-) 

do you use vmfs3 for he datastores or vmfs2. vmfs2 is supported by esx4.1 but i head that you can get some issues if you try to use a vmfs2 datastore with different esx versions. did you try to restart the mgmt-vmware and the vmware-vpxa services on both esx 4.0 servers and rescan the datastores on each host, not only on the esx4.1? greetings grub 

No there is no (easy) way to stop the password from being viewed but that's not as bad as it looks. The decryption only works under the following circumstances: 

DNS (is the forward/reverse lookup for the used dc's,servers and clients correct) Does a firewall block port 445 (tcp) or some other AD related ports? Are the file permissions on the DFS root set correctly? (a directory on the dc is created for every target you define) 

Please check if the scripts and the directory can be read and executed by the webserver· I'm assuming you're using a lamp system. check if the permissions for the directory and scripts are set to r-x for everyone. 

to the file /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf if it exists. I do not know how ubuntu 9.04 or 9.10 do store the blacklisted modules.