I'm looking for a way to make Windows Explorer smarter about showing columns in media folders with music, videos and images. A common type of problem is where in a music folder it shows columns for file name, which contains all of the basic song info like the Track number, Album, Artist and Track name. And then it still shows the same columns that have exactly the same stuff in each line for every file (save for track name and number). As an example of maximum duplication, check this out: 

I have an Excel spreadsheet on a Onenote page, and every time I edit the sheet's cells (without adding or removing cells to change the total dimensions), the Onenote page refreshes it to a roughly 120% scale and it looks weird. To make it look nice again, I have to right-click and select "Restore to original size". How do I make it stop resizing on its own after every edit so I don't need to do that? 

I'm having a hard time finding the best settings for Media Player Classic so that it could play videos on my weak netbook without stuttering so badly. I tried several recommended ways to reduce the lagging: 

A lot of us have heard before that you should "never defrag an SSD", but that seems to be only relevant for older Windows versions (like XP and below). Windows 7 and above seem to have enough understanding of how to work with SSDs to make it safe and beneficial to do routine (although not too often) defragmentation and consolidation. This article claims that Windows (7+) should handle routine defragmentation on every installation automatically, and is enabled by default. However, when I checked out my Windows 7's defragmenter application, it said that my 2 HDDs have been recently completely defragmented and consolidated, and that my SSD on which Windows is installed, has never even been analyzed. What gives? 

I'm trying to watch a TV series that is being downloaded kinda slow, but the speed is enough to get the next episode and start downloading the one following it. uTorrent allows some control over which file I want to be downloaded next. First, I can set its priority to either High, Normal and Low, and second, I can totally disable a file's downloading, so if that file is being shared too vigorously and it obstructs downloading of the other files, even if I set their priority to High. So, basically, 4 priority grades. But those I have to reset manually, when the most awaited file is downloaded. How do I automate this process? Or is there a way to set priority in more ranks than just the default 3? note: I'm not interested in downloading a single file in sequential order, as the "related" question section might suggest, I'm trying to prioritize the file order automatically. 

Imagine I have tons of RAM. Let's say 64GB. That's a lot for even gaming PCs. Now the default location of a pagefile in Windows is on the main OS drive, be it HDD or SSD, which are faster in general, but still not as fast as RAM. Something tells me that disabling the pagefile on the hard drive or creating a virtual RAM drive and letting the pagefile be there could make Windows move all its virtual memory to RAM, and so increase the system's performance, but I'm not very knowledgeable in that area, so that might not be true at all. I tried both, but I couldn't analyze the results to reach a definite conclusion with my knowledge level in memory things. Would this work? If not, why? 

Yes, we can still see hover tooltips by hovering cursor somewhere in the middle of the window, and this is how you must find the "Blank Document" template on the main page. Alternatively, just open any existing Word document. Then when the window changes to document editing view, press Alt. Main menu should reveal its hotkeys: 

And this is how it looks now: How do I see crash details again? Note that in both OS installations, I had Visual Studio 2010 installed, so these screenshots I found on google may not be the same in all cases (missing debug option). 

I've always wondered what subsystem in Windows is responsible for displaying desktop background image and icons even when the Windows Explorer process is not working. The common scenario is that some extension or external drive malfunctioned and the Explorer process died. While a new instance is being started, the desktop icons and background are still visible and you can do things with them as usual. The only difference is that all windows are gone and the taskbar is missing. You can also manually kill Explorer process to see what I mean, but you better know how to restore it before doing it. What process (or subsystem) keeps desktop image and icons alive while Explorer process is down? 

When I change my Windows 7 environment theme via , it turns on font smoothing, even if the themes I'm switching between were saved with font smoothing turned off. Am I doing something wrong when saving themes that doesn't save my font smoothing setting, or is it a bug by Microsoft? In the meantime, how do I disable font smoothing along with switching a theme? 

But when I change the mode to Shape XY, it doesn't seem to matter what other settings I change, it just doesn't work. I tried inverting the mask, using other different images and random masks, and couldn't get it to work. In other modes it works, so it's not like it's completely misconfigured. 

I'm talking about the normal delete-button deletion which is supposed to only remove the torrent file from the torrents list of the app, not right-click menu deletion with the option to delete the torrent file and downloaded data. When deleting large torrents, the app's window freezes and it does something with the hard drive which can be heard because of how loud it becomes, and seen in Process Explorer as some hard drive activity. This is especially noticeable with extra large torrents, in the range of hundreds of gigabytes. The quickest way to delete those is to disable the hard drive before this operation, and re-enable it back. It doesn't seem to cause the app to react in any way to that, it just instantly deleted the item from the list and that's it. What's uTorrent doing while removing the torrent from the list? 

Typically, when you move the cursor inside a list with a scrollbar, the mouse wheel would scroll that list. In OneNote, however, I can only scroll the note page itself, when the cursor is definitely within the list of notes (blue area in this illustration): 

It doesn't seem to matter if the page can be scrolled or not, the mouse wheel doesn't scroll the list of notes when it's within the blue zone. I can only scroll it by interacting with the scrollbar with left mouse button. It appears to be the issue with Windows 7 (maybe it's the OS, or maybe OneNote version for 7 has this bug). Windows 10 doesn't seem to have this problem at all.