Clearly there way no set on Pi. This is how one figures out the Necessary route for accessing the Internet This is what needs to be added on your Pi to set a / Default Gateway : 

You could use a very nice tool called tmux. I use it everyday and what it basically does is gives the end user to run multiple scripts in detached mode (background), however a user can log in to the Detached Session whenever s/he wants at any given time. 

The very first entry would be my Gateway of my network which was I tried pinging the Gateway from my Pi and it was pinging, which means there was no problem connecting to the Gateway. However I could not still ping some addresses in my Note In many general networks the would have the following: 

This might also come in handy when using USB Dongles with certain drivers, where making the module available on during boot process can help set up the link for . I tried this, however on Raspbian Jessie with a LogiLink WL0145N WLAN which also has the driver on it. Inside the file add (also add if needed in the same file) and then reboot. This might do make the module available for the WLAN dongle and making the link ready for usage. 

Configuration Steps For both the Pis, we use the cmdline tool to create a ad hoc network. Adding the IPv6 address can be done by using file. Pi - 3 Configuration 

How to connect multiple Raspberry Pis (Pi -2 and Pi - 3) using WLAN(wifi) in Ad Hoc fashion? Is it possible to use IPv6 addressing schemes rather than IPv4? Since IPv6 addresses are quite long, how can one use avahi to resolve a Pi within the network? 

First of all since you are not mentioning with Raspberry Pi you are using and which Dongle are you using it might be difficult here. I have tested Edimax 7811-UN in adhoc mode and two pis with these dongles are incompatible in adhoc mode. You can try Ralink based Dongles which are compatible. Also I am not sure if this a typo in your answer but you seem to forget adding in your Pi 2's file A good way to check is by using on both your Pis to see if you are on the same Channel or not. Most likely the WiFi Dongle Incompatibility between the Pis might be the concern you are facing in terms of non connectivity. 

Is this possible to set via the feature for Python or are there some ready made implementations that some one has in mind or uses with Pis? Scenario I am using a Multicasting scenario where I want to send files to many Pis within an ad-hoc network. This is needed since I cannot ssh into each Pi and send files and set the GPIOs individually since this will consume a lot of time (I am expecting at least 50 Pis). SSH is TCP based and hence broadcasting/ multicasting a bunch of files is not possible in general, hence I shifted my focus on UDP and there is something called as Fountain Codes which is an FEC based technique to distribute data(files) within a network. There are a lot of other reasons why I do not use TCP which are beyond the point of this question. I have an implementation ready for the above mentioned FEC technique where I take one file and distribute it all the Pis that are a part of the Multicast group. As mentioned before I need to configure some GPIO pins on Pis. This configuration varies from Pi to Pi hence a configuration file is needed to specify which Pi will have which settings and which file for further operation. Reasons for a tar file it consists of : 

and maybe try rebooting it again. I somehow think that maybe there might be problems with path variable settings. 

could give an idea if some entities are missing. And by adding appropriate networking parameters such as a would solve the problem. a fresh Jessie Image was used here rather than the above mentioned command line distribution upgrade 

which will give me sufficient information about the Version of Jessie. just show the current version number I can do to obtain information about the kernel version and data for date of the kernel etc. 

I understand that few main ways to obtain information about the current OS for a Raspbian/Debian system is via : 

and add in to your file for availability of chipset on boot. For further help I have a GitHub repository which can set up Pis (any model 2 or 3) in Ad-Hoc mode with IPv6 Link Local Addresses. 

I am planning on sending some files within an Ad-Hoc network of Pis. Build Raspberry Pi - 2 Model B Debian Wheezy 7.10/7.11 I am planning to run a job between the Pis in vicinity. Through some applications which I have developed I retrieve my nearest / best neighbor and I would send my file via Paramiko which is a SSH and SCP module in Python. I have shared the SSH Key with only my laptop, hence I can easily send/receive data without entering the Password with the Pis. But is not the case between each Pis. So if I run a python script with Paramiko to my file on one of the Pi I might be asked the password. Is there a way to by-pass this password authentication without having to share a common with each Pis? Note the neighbor which I retrieve can keep changing, hence if I share my key with one Pi and if that Pi is not available the next time, I might have to send this file to the new neighbor which may not have the key. 

Note: You can run as many scripts (not infinite though! but a decent number) on the Pi or any Linux machine using . Learn it and soon you will love it. 

If you need more tools use the following Implementations for CoAP If you want testing tools for CoAP using Copper for Mozilla FireFox and smcpctl 

open a session : (here is for detached mode which lets you run the application in the backend) In the same session open a new window: ( is to name this new window and is for you to refer to which instance of the session is running) Follow step 2 as for as many applications that you need to run since all the sessions and windows are detached you could login to the pi any time and do the following to know the following: 

But for instance, I have Two raspberry Pis one with Raspbian Jessie which was downloaded in the late 2016 and one with Raspbian Jessie-Lite which was downloaded in recent February 2017. Is there any way to determine which Jessie version is the latest on either of the two pis? Observation since the Download Page for Jessie has some information about the Release Date and Version how can I obtain that same information on the Pi. 

Hence your current IP address is the IP address generally for IPv4 and or for IPv6. This can be seen from . Default port number for is 1883 according to the page addresses are IPv6 Link-Local Addresses which exist for each IPv6 enabled device on your Pi. It is recommended to change the IP address and port values in your for your desired functionality and restart again: 

and you will be able to access the Internet on your Pi. Inference It is always good to compare a device on the same network if it is able to access the Internet. Commands like: 

press CTRL+O (this is the letter O) press Enter and then CTRL+X You should reboot your Raspberry Pi using the following command in terminal: 

sure enough now will work and the status can be checked using This might be a bit off topic but this works well since I did not have the problems of not being able to scan channels 12 and 13 but not being able to use it. I got the information using This Link in German Note please check with your Country standardization whether or not you can use the latter channels or not since in some countries these channels are used for other purposes. 

I have a or file which I send to the Pi in the form of a compressed file with other files (in ) At the Pi I would have a triggering mechanism (using ) which when receives the compressed file, untars it and then runs a python script to parse through the information. File 

To add a note to this query I have a Raspberry Pi - 2 Model B and I use a LogiLink WiFi adapter on it. Upon performing I can see all Channels from 1 to 14 (yes! I can scan channel 14) But if I actually want to use channel 12 or 13 using or I cannot do it initially since the it returns 

( install can work too) Working around with Think of a your two scripts running together as a Session in . Since you have two scripts in mind (Julia and Python); you should consider running each of the script in it's own Window. Once your session starts it will consist of two windows: 

Now a pre-check to see if your Routing Table on your Pi has the same values as that of the Laptop using: 

if you want to know what means here use This Reference There might be other options too, instead of maybe can work too. 

You can run any number of scripts with varying programming language. You can think in the direction of using tools like or . They basically are used to run scripts in background or detached mode. This proves to be quite useful when you have a lot of applications you need to keep track of whilst they are running in the background. Installation on Raspberry Pi I am a fan of over hence on your Pi you can install via the following command line: 

Once inside you could check all the applications using the (press + first and then the number) In the end if need be you can kill sessions using: 

You will be attached to the session and see a blank shell, in order to see how your Julia Script is doing use: CTRL+B+1 For your python script use: CTRL+B+2 If you want to keep the session running and detach from the session use: CTRL+B+D If you want to kill the complete session: 

Wireless Ad Hoc Networking with Raspberry Pi - 2 Model B / Pi - 3 with IPv6 OS used: Raspbian Jessie 8.0 kernel version: 

As you have not specified your file from it is very difficult to know where your configurations are actually working or not. However there is also a patch which I use for Raspberry Pi - 2 Model B which made things very easy. The patch is although for WebIOPi version 0.7 but if there are internal issues which cannot be sorted you might as well go through the Patch from DoubleBind or just follow their README 

Since I am in Europe I can access these channels according to regulations and use them. This got solved according to the following steps 

but I have little different configuration. This file may vary depending on the User's Network configuration Solution The best way here is to check if your Pi was configured to a Default Gateway like the Laptop or not. This could be checked using (on Laptop and Pi both): 

and you can place your python scripts in the . For instance, If you want the python script to run everytime your Pi reboots then : 

Some Networking Checks If I can connect another device in the same IP pool and check if they can access the Internet, then I can do some comparison and figure out the problem on the Pi. I can connect my Laptop on the same IP Pool as mentioned above . My Laptop can access the Internet and I can ping the Pi on the Network 

Hi I am going to stretch a limb and say I am working with modules in Python and I send out information using Multicasting the only difference is I use WLAN as my medium of transfer. I presume you do the same with Bluetooth LE also. I have created a class which sets the socket of my interest as a Multicast IPv6 port and I send an receive data on it because I have configured my interface to be able to use the IPv6 multicast. I have a Repository where you can use this Python Socket Class for your usage or trial. Note: the repository code is issued under GPLv3 License. I hope it helps. 

At this point whichever driver module you wish to install (if open source), clone to repository on you pi (here, we take lwfinger rtl8188eu) 

Have you considered using the scheme in SSH ? You can do something like I think it should work. You are essentially telling which interface should you ssh into via the I tend to use it on my PC. I have configured in ad-hoc mode and everytime I need to SSH into pis over the same interface I use: 

I think your error is that you have no mailer installed on the Pi. I think maybe can make thinks work here.