That step is your primary problem. The Time Capsule is not designed to be plugged into a computer directly through ethernet. It would be significantly more complicated to make it work. The Time Capsule should be plugged into a router (or connected wirelessly), and then mounted over your network. 

No, and that's more or less how it should be. On boot, the loader reads the file and assigns the split for the CPU/GPU. All of this happens within the loading process before the actual Linux kernel starts. Because of this, the kernel itself doesn't have access to the GPU memory space. In short, it's probably technically possible, but it would require some kind of exploit. 

This is true, but only kind of. The "everything is a file" philosophy doesn't mean it's a legitimate (as in physical) file. , for example, is a "file", but it doesn't reside anywhere on the disk. It's a virtual file. Anything you write to or read from that "file" is coming straight from memory. 

Based on your description, it sounds like the screen has probably died from some kind of physical fault. The only way I can think of to ensure it may not be is to try it with a different RPi, but that seems like a long shot. I'd suggest that accepting that the parrot is no more. 

I'm assuming you have an RPi 1 (single core processor). Your code is far too intensive for any single core machine, and is terribly inefficient (but may sorta work) on a multicore machine. The problem lies in the logic of your code. You are using what's called "polling". Essentially, you're the kid that's constantly asking, "Are we there yet? Are we there yet, Are we there yet!?". Polling isn't necessarily a bad thing; it's how USB keyboards work. Most usb keyboards poll at 100MHz (iirc). So if you add a short sleep to the loop, you can use this idea and consume far less resources. Pygame supports an event based solution which essentially allows your program to "block" (sit and do nothing) until an event (like a keypress) is raised. If you're interested in that method, I would suggest you start with their tutorial on how to handle that. 

I am trying to access Raspberry Pi from any host, but every time I type , this error comes onto the screen: 

After some research I found this amazing motion package for Raspberry Pi. You can also check out this method. It works well with good quality webcams. For official documentation and support, visit this link. 

After reading your clean and very illustrative question. Also I read all the previous answers and I found that none worked for. All the answers are reasonable though. I decided to search about the supported Wi-Fi dongles for RPI. I didn't find yours in the section. This link provides you with all possible working USB Wi-Fi adapters. It's actually a good resource to search for info at. Besides, this link shows some dongles tests, you can also check it. So my main suspect is the dongle itself :D. Try using another one from your friends first before buying a new one if this answer helps. Btw your dongle should be supported as it's listed, but it's listed in the section. Hope I helped. 

Try using instead. You can download it from here Also download . Here is the download link If you don't know , you can watch this tutorial on how to setup on your windows desktop. 

I read in the Raspberry Pi Official Documentation that you cannot preview the using and . The doc states: 

After a long detailed research, I have found this full setup tutorial. It has some limitations though, that I've read in a review in another website, but it works very well for my job. 

Installing OpenCV on a RasPi is a straightforward process. If you would like you can download my cheat sheet and try it out. It works fine for a lot of people facing your problem. I have also some recommendations: 

Have you installed the on your Pi?. If not install it using this command if you are using Python2 then type and if you are using Python3 then type If this is not the problem, you can skip this step. There is a difference between Physical numbering and GPIO numbering. Have you taken this into consideration. If you don't know what I mean see the following photo: 

OpenGL My Pi 2 with Jessie runs Minetest out of the box at 15 fps for a typical scene with trees. (You'll of course get a higher fps looking at the sky.) I've seen a "1 fps" bug affect both Minetest and full-blown Minecraft, and it seems to happen when the OpenGL driver isn't properly configured. Run and select the OpenGL driver with full KMS. Check that contains so that it takes effect on reboot. If that doesn't resolve it, try with fake KMS. If the issue persists and you have a bit more time, rule out the usual concerns with Once you have the lag bug gone, framerate is most visibly affected by drawing text (press F2 to disable chat / log), followed by the HUD due to its transparency and some text (press F1 to disable). Ironically, this means pressing F5 to view the FPS counter makes the framerate instantly drop, so I ended up tweaking to report stats to stdout instead. On the bright side, opaque objects like "Steve" (press F7 to change camera view) are not computationally expensive. You might squeeze out a few more fps by with , , , or disabling fog (press F3), but most options have little effect on performance. In fact a Pi 3 runs Minetest at about the same quality. OpenGL ES (Mesa driver with VC4 support) It's worth noting you can compile Irrlicht for standard GLES and configure Minetest with . I have used these instructions, although for faster compilation and keeping enough RAM on-device I use clang instead of gcc. Also note: requires the branch of minetest. However, the resulting configuration has slightly worse performance than full OpenGL. This makes some sense, given that it's much the same software rendering with limited VC4 acceleration. OpenGL ES (Broadcom VC4 driver) Besides the thread from 2015 you linked, there's this thread last updated in March. I have responded on the latter with instructions for building Minetest linked with brcmEGL + brcmGLESv2. This performs significantly better than the Mesa GLES configuration, often 50+ fps with a fair amount of geometry in the scene. The same tuning tips apply as with OpenGL, although little things like text rendering can cause a more severe fps drop. There may be further bottlenecks in Irrlicht/Minetest aside from rendering that could be identified by first building with . However, now that both minecraft-pi and PC Minecraft run faster on the Pi, that could be a reason Minetest is getting less attention. 

The article is referencing two different circuits within the GPU that are meant to take two different tasks. 

Like any other processor, the Raspberry Pi 3 will be overclockable. Searching for is unlikely to get you any useful results at this point. It's a custom SOC designed specifically for the RPi 3. Within the SOC is a Cortex-A53 CPU. Unfortunately, the ARM page doesn't go into much detail about fast you can (or should) clock it. That lack of knowledge said, it seems likely that the processor could be reliably overclocked, at least a little. It's extremely rare for processors to be shipped at their max speed for a variety of reasons. The most notable being the binning process. At this point, we don't have enough information to say how much the average RPi 3 can be overclocked, but I'd bet many of them could safely hit the 1.5 GHz mark. Edit: It's also worth noting that the RPi 3 comes with a much newer and more advanced system architecture. Assuming programs are being compiled to take advantage of said architecture, you'll notice huge performance gains from that alone. Overclocking may or may not be worth the effort/risk of overclocking. 

If you cannot parallelize your algorithm into discrete parts that can operate independently, you cannot even take advantage of multiple CPU cores, let alone a cluster. 

If you installed software using , there is no need to then configure and compile the software. It already did that step on its own through the install. You can use the command below to check that it installed. 

Yes. The something different is that the RPi uses 3.3v logic. You'll need some additional circuitry to translate that to the 5V your sensor needs. The 5V pins on the RPi is for power only, and using that directly is not recommended as it bypasses the polyfuse.. 

We're back to the power issue. Your eHDD will require a certain amount of power, just like the RPi does. The back of the drive should list its requirements. Check what the powered hub supports, and what the power supply is giving the hub. 

If you're attempting to run an existing snes9x binary on Stretch, once you have all dependencies it will typically work as long as you haven't enabled the full OpenGL driver. However if building from source, take heed of notes in this thread. 

mjpg-streamer uses the kernel support for V4L2 (). You could probably stream to web with that or gstreamer, but it's understandable that uv4l is simpler to configure for web streaming. (uv4l automatically opens a page on port 8080 if uv4l-server is installed.) Troubleshooting via tools like or would default to using , so those wouldn't be helpful in figuring out what is failing with userspace UVC. I have an Ausdom camera (says "Microdia Camera" when I run ) and it works fine with your command and the corresponding VID:PID, but that doesn't guarantee other cameras work. In truth most userspace libraries for UVC are not without bugs, but uv4l is much harder to debug being closed-source. For something that sets up a WebRTC stream with the simplicity of and works with the kernel V4L2 driver, try webrtc-streamer. What's more, it comes with source code! Note: If others here have trouble installing uv4l-server on Stretch, here is a workaround for dealing with older (jessie) dependencies and issues with lrkey.asc: 

For C++ projects it's not uncommon that custom cross-compilation comes about in order to satisfy downstream linking requirements. But if you're planning to use only Python, can't you get by using the standard prebuilt packages for OpenCV? As for dlib, the pip compiles locally so it's slow. Perhaps one hour on a Pi 3 and longer on other models. As shown above I used clang to avoid gcc taking up all of the Pi's RAM. 

The question that comes to mind is: why not use VNC? Perhaps you have OpenGL ES rendering, or maybe there is a reason the player on Windows must be VLC. It would be good to clarify. 

To invert the mouse Y, find the part of the library where it normally sends the deltaY value and invert it! 

Unfortunately, you cannot install all the Python modules with a single command. The py packages are roughly millions. Depending on your project you can install your desired packages. I recommend you install some basic and important packages for almost any project. 

and leave a blank line at the end. Hint you will type both your and between the double quotes. Now save the file by pressing then , then finally press . I would recommend that you type the following command to reconfigure your WiFi . You can verify that you are connected by executing . If the field has an address beside it, the Pi has connected to the network. If not, check your and are correct, and consider rebooting the RPi. If all the above doesn't work for you. Try checking the official RPi website for Setting WiFi Up Via the Command Line Inteface. 

I am tying to give you all the possibilities. I have faced your problem before and I tried these solutions and It worked for me pretty well. 

I have googled for a bit. I found this wonderful, super duper easy tutorial. Try it out and if it works, accept my answer. 

and leave a blank line at the end. Hint you will type both your and between the double quotes. Now save the file by pressing then , then finally press . I would recommend that you type the following command to reconfigure your WiFi . You can verify that you are connected by executing . If the field has an address beside it, the Pi has connected to the network. If not, check your and are correct, and consider rebooting the RPi. If all the above doesn't work for you. Try checking the official RPi website for Setting WiFi Up Via the Command Line Inteface. 

Recently Raspberry Pi has some security concerns with WiFi Connection; don't know why; but there is always a solution for any problem. First of all type in your RPi terminal and look if your router is listed or not. If it is listed then great and you are nearly done with setting up your network. If not, then the problem is with your router itself not the RPi. Suppose it is listed, type and go to the bottom of this file and paste 

I've heard option #2 cannot work because CSI is a high-speed LVDS interface. Option #1 involves synchronizing/shifting the two signals and thus requires more than discrete gates to deal with timing. It's not impossible to build your own, but quite an endeavor where you'd want to rent a MIPI protocol analyzer for the arduous debugging work. Among the bridge chips you might find online, two that I'm familiar with are Omnivision OV680 and Lattice CrossLink. +1 for goldilocks' tip that the Compute Module and Compute Module 3 each have two CSI interfaces. 

For streaming V4L2 over ethernet, I recommend webrtc-streamer. VLC doesn't support WebRTC, but could you use a browser instead? 

I can attest that the basic setup works out of the box on my Pi 3 with Raspbian 9 Stretch. You can get something up and running quickly even if the engine stutters and it renders at about 10 fps. From there, you can dramatically improve the experience via OptiFine, overclocking, or other tips that you'll find in those threads and related videos. I'm sure the OP became well-aware of this along his neverending quest, but hopefully the answer helps others who stumble upon this question. 

(as roughly instructed in the thread that @0pendev linked) To your original point of potentially reduced RAM usage: from what I can tell it consistently uses 50 MB more RAM than (250 MB vs 200 MB), whether opened to its default search page or raspberrypi.stackexchange.com. It does sometimes drop by 50 MB if I Alt+Tab away, but the same can be said for ESR (Firefox 52). 

right under the line with PCM5102A, and then add to your before rebuilding. I'm told this sort of direct editing of is frowned upon, but as it stands now this module doesn't appear in menuconfig. When I load the module via on my Pi Zero W it doesn't show any errors in dmesg, for what it's worth. If this could get you closer to your goal or at least rule something out, happy to provide you with these compiled binaries.