There is no way for BASH to know what the opposite of the command you just ran is. You can try the following: Create a new Admin user. Log into the new account. Delete the original User account, choosing leave the home folder alone. Add the account again with the exact same short name. Choose to use the existing home folder when asked. The permissions will be fixed when recreating the user account. 

You have to create a POST-COMMIT hook to do the job of sending the files to your web root from the SVN repo. Every time you make a commit it will call this simple script that will push the updated files to the folder of your choice. Here is a quick tutorial that we use to do the same thing: $URL$ 

Instead of cropping just use the selector in Photoshop, select the area you want, EDIT >> COPY and then go paste into a new tab. 

Have you tried Nvidia's control panel, there are alot more configurations you can alter via the control panel. Here is a link to the Nvidia User Guide for this card: $URL$ 

Install a firewall, many freebies out there. This will alert you when something is trying to go outside and you can decide to Allow it or block it. This way you will know exactly what is gobbling up any bandwidth 

Create a junction in Windows 7 or 2012 using the MKLINK command. mklink /j source-path target-path Example: mklink /j C:\FileName1 C:\Temp\FileName2 

Adobe Acrobat does that. Give it a URL, tell it to stay on the same server. There is a free trial if you don't want to spend the money, or if you just need to do it once. You can see a tutorial on how to do that here: $URL$ 

Try /opt or /usr or /usr/local All of those are good choices. As mentioned below in a comment by @Journeyman Geek using the /usr/local location is a generally accepted practice. 

HP D110 Info Page See Page 31 of User Guide... HP D110 User's Manual Here is how to set up an ad hoc network form there instruction manual. 

Delete the lines in your passwd and shadow files in your /etc directory manually first. You can then rm -fR the home directory for that user account. (m in your example) Additional files will still have to be removed. For example: /var/spool/mail/m This is a very surgical approach to use when userdel refuses to work. 

You would have to remote into a separate proxy machine, and then from there remote into the one you intend to target, effectively spoofing the original ip by hiding behind the proxy. 

When you see the initial POST on the screen when you first power up you should see something about "Boot Device" or "Boot Order", etc... This will let you select the device you want to boot off of (CD/DVD) without having to change anything in the BIOS settings. 

It is probably a browser caching issue, I assume your using an external API set for the GIS information. Make sure your using the most current version of the browser of your choice and check the cache settings in each to make sure they are set low. Have you tested the speed on the slow machine using other browsers like Firefox or Chrome? 

Right-click on the email that may require follow-up and select Convert To >> TASK. From here you can set the reminder interval, i.e. 15 minutes, 1 hour, 1 day, 1 week, etc.. 

There is nothing "illegal" about it... If you have a purchased copy of OSX you can install it on whatever you want without breaking the "law", just dont expect any Apple support. Here is a link to do this, I've done the same already on my Toshiba Qosmio and am running OSX Lion perfectly. There are also tutorials to get OSX 10.6 Snow Leopeard installed as well if thats the version you have. $URL$ 

Function keys are not part of standard typing (but a later add-on for computer users), nor are they really standard and only used for special rare circumstances that do not occur in regular typing. So you are correct, it is personal preference. 

What you are referring to is called a 'captive portal' -- a good place to start might be here: $URL$ 

Most of the time people use wordpad or notepad (which can be executed from the prompt) but you could use third party tools. 

I installed Ubuntu, Windows 7x32, Windows 7x64, and OS X 10.4 on a previous machine, and on my current one I am dual booting OS X 10.9 and Windows 8.1. I installed them using rEFIt (I never upgraded to rEFInd but it did work flawlessly-- and I cannot imagine rEFInd would work worse than its predecessor... If I reboot with extra drives attached -- USB ports, it finds those as well on boot.) I always tend to partition in advance with with either the Mac Disk Utility or gparted. You will have the best luck installing windows first-- less hassles. 

The program that is doing that is deletable. Install chrome while offline. Look in the directory where it is located and delete the file. I have multiple versions of chrome installed in different accounts on my machine and it works fine. The file is: 

(you would change XYZ to your actual btrfs label) Do put this into effect, you could create a snapshot of your root subvolume, and call it corsair. Probably also make a read-only snapshot of corsair, for backup purposes. Then delete files from the root subvolume. For example: 

Unless you are using the counters in one of your rules, or need the counters for some other purpose (billing etc), I would just omit them as follows: 

Note that the counters change as packets are passed down the rules chains, so as soon as you read the counters they may be changed by an incoming or outgoing packet. 

You might be able to use /etc/hosts to add your entry. This is not really using DNS but it affects the resolver library in Linux, which is used by most applications. Add: 

Often you can do the export manually by copying the xpi file out of your firefox profile. This is a Linux example, but a similar method would work for Windows: 

Another option would be to install a simple DNS server on your system. The one I often use is called dnsmasq. On some distros it is installed by default as a caching resolver, in which case you would only need to modify the configuration to include: 

You can't. The web page is not the only part of this application. There is a back-end program creating the images that it generates that is not available to download. A server program that creates images like this on the back end is ImageMagick. You would have to have the front page form (which you have via downloading) - a back end form processing program (written in PHP or other server language) that uses ImageMagick to create the image and post it on the web for download. 

A good way to do it is using gzip to compress files. If you need to package multiple files up into one big one, try looking into tar, then gzip them after you do that. It sounds like an assignment so that should put you in the right direction. 

NOTE: the answers proposed are for Windows Server 2003. Even the one claiming Windows 7 posted in 2012 appears to fail in 2014. I have tried them and they do not work for Windows 7. This question has not been answered yet. If you have not tested in Windows 7, please do not post an answer. The answers given are not for this version of windows and are not compatible. That said I do appreciate the suggestions... I have a Windows 7 machine that needs to have a fresh boot weekly. This part works fine. The issue is that Google Drive needs to be accessible even if I have not logged into the box. It is attached to a user account so the act of logging in enables it. Is there a way to have the system log into Google Drive on its own at boot time? I attempted to have Windows 7 boot into a specified account on its own, but it did not activate the drive. The option to start with the computer was chosen, it did not start with the computer but with the account, meaning a username and password is still required to be manually entered. [I am using 32-bit Windows 7 Professional, Service Pack 1] UPDATE: I am going to attempt a different method of syncing files instead of google drive, it may be possible that the 'server' solutions do not equate to Windows 7 deployment. (EG: this question may not have a working answer, or one has not been found yet.)