I can confirm, on a clean installation of Windows 7, that only a single VLC instance is used when opening new audio files. Using the plugin allows multiple audio streams. If you are still getting more than one VLC window, then your problem lies with your Firefox or Windows configuration. 

Launch the Once we have an active window whose title ends with our , send F11 to enable fullscreen mode. 

Stylish can apply CSS to both chrome (XUL) and content (HTML) if you don't specify a namespace. Without Stylish, you style chrome with userChrome.css and content with userContent.css. You have to split up your CSS so each rule is in the proper file. 

It looks like a problem with Autofill. Turn it off under Settings (). If you use this feature, I suggest downgrading to a stable build of Google Chrome. 

I have written a small application for just this purpose! It is called Npad, and it is a simple AutoHotkey script to conditionally remap the normal number keys to behave as the Numpad keys. This allows you to enter Unicode characters using their Alt keystroke combinations with any keyboard. Instructions: Press Ctrl+Win+N to toggle Npad between and , off and on respectively. Press Alt+Win+N to display the state of Npad without toggling on or off. Source: Note: See the download link below for the latest version... 

On the other hand, if you are looking to have Alt+F4 close the console window, you can use the following AutoHotkey script: 

Explanation: The whois server for the .COM tld is , managed by Verisign (the .COM registry). If you connect via TCP to and send you get some information on how queries are supposed to be sent to this whois server: 

Many code beautifiers and prettyprint tools are hosted online. These online tools may be the best, as they are operating system independent. For PHP, some examples are PHPFormatter.com and PrettyPrinter.de. If you are looking for a stand-alone application, phpCodeBeautifier is available for both Windows and Linux. 

Google Chrome does not have it's own preferences for file type associations. Instead, it uses the defaults as managed by the operating system. 

When I view an HTML5 video (e.g. ), the playback is incredibly choppy and the video has some corruption/artifacts near the top of the frame. Flash videos run fine in Firefox. I've used a screen recorded to capture this issue. Here is the video: $URL$ 

If the adapter you want to enable/disable is currently selected (i.e. the 1st` on the list), skip to Step #5. If the adapter is not selected, press Right until it is selected. For example press Right 1 time if the adapter is 2nd on the list, 2 times if it is 3rd, etc. 

The simplest workaround would be to use Batch files. If is located in , making a new file with the following single line of code will launch the file: 

I seem to be the AutoHotkey ambassador here on Superuser. Here is a simple script to launch a new process each time: 

@Revolter's answer is the cleanest. You can also use the command to associate a path with a drive letter. For example, will associate the drive with the working directory. Next, enter to switch to your 'new' working directory. This helps tidy up the command prompt. will delete the association. by itself will show all your pairings. 

I've yet to find a way to change this. However, since asking this question, I've become accustomed to using Mouse Keys in my workflow. I suppose Adobe would mark this as status-bydesign. 

It sounds like the BIOS thinks the hub is a bootable USB device. If you do not regularly boot from USB, you can disable this feature in your BIOS settings or bump USB to the bottom of the boot order list. To access the BIOS settings, press the proper key as instructed by the BIOS interface at boot-up. It is usually a function (F1-F12) key or Delete 

The directory may give you some context as to where this issue stems from. You should be able to find out where it is auto-starting using Autoruns and removing the proper entry. If not, simply deleting the file may do the trick. 

By default, Windows Explorer represents compressed files and folders as blue. It may be that your configuration between Windows XP and 7 is different. This particular setting is found under Folder Options > View > Advanced settings > Show encrypted or compressed NTFS files in color. Windows XP: 

Do a Whois lookup for the IP address: $URL$ We can see that this IP address is registered to Ramnode. 

If you can do it by hand, you can easily automate it using macro software. My weapon of choice is AutoHotkey, specifically AutoHotkey_L. Documentation Based on your example, the following will be useful: 

Select and copy the path from the address bar. Parse the path to remove everything after the third forward slash. Send you to the domain. 

Okay, I just did a clean install of Windows XP Professional SP3 in VirtualBox and installed all the related Windows Updates. I then installed the latest stable version Google Chrome (). I did not find any services related to Google Chrome. The only related auto-starting entry is for Google Update () at logon. Is this what you meant by 'service at startup'? 

Open up Pandora.com in Google Chrome. Press Ctrl+L to select the Address Bar. Now, press Tab multiple times until the focus has been moved to Pandora's play/pause button. Keep count! In my case, it took tabs. 

You should not need to restart your router, unless there is a serious firmware issue. If your router has DHCP enabled, and your client is set to automatically get addresses via DHCP, running the following should do the same thing as restarting the router: Windows: 

shows or hides the protocol (e.g. ) in the address bar. It does not affect URLs in the status bar. There is no preference in to stop the status bar from clipping text, so we'll have to inspect the Firefox Chrome to see what's going on. After some investigating, I see that the status bar is represented as an XUL element and with the following CSS: 

By default, Google search results should open in the same tab for all browsers. Check your Google Search Settings and make sure that is not enabled. 

This is for compatibility with the FAT32 file system which has a file size limitation of , which is equivalent to . These options let TrueCrypt manage it's container accordingly. 

If you are editing a new file or one with an unrecognized file extension, have you set a language (i.e. )? The TextFX option for auto-closing braces requires a language to be set (e.g. C, Java, PHP, etc). 

You failed to mention your operating system and any Firefox or system theme(s) you are using. Unfortunately, I cannot confirm any text drop-shadow as you described. I am using Windows 7 and the Aero theme: 

Are you also running any anti-virus software? It is possible that these temp files are being 'locked' for inspection, and not being removed when they should be. Perhaps set your AV software to ignore files. I do not see any problem with deleting these files, as they are supposed to be temporary SQLITE database files. Note: to check for handles on *.etilqs files, you can run Process Explorer and search for . 

If you only have the IP address, you can do some investigation as follows. I will use I will use 23.226.227.64 (gwhois.org) and my suite of tools at GWhois.org for the examples. 

Press and hold the Windows key down. Do not release it until instructed! Press a number key until the target window is highlighted. Press the Backspace key. The highlighted window will be closed! If the there is only one window left, then that window will be activated, otherwise the window group list will return. Repeat steps 2 to 3 to close more windows. Finally, release the Windows key to be done. 

It's seems like your professors may be using outdated browsers. For Windows, you can try older versions of Firefox and Google Chrome using the portable editions provided by PortableApps.com. These packages are open source and hosted on SourceForge.net.