I am aware that this not so much what you are looking for but you may be interested. Check out the DLNA standard. It uses networking cabling and protocols to transport video information. 

I find changing Xen packages on the fly extremely risky. Since this is virtualization, you should build a new lenny Xen 3.2 server (or maybe 3.3 or 3.4 from source since it's out), do a migration test with a copy of your actual domains and then update your actual server to see if it works. This allows you to be on the safe side of things and avoid a potential server crash/reinstallation/downtime. I have had several bad experiences so I tend to try to avoid these updates unless really necessary. 

Unplugging the computer would solve that problem. There also maybe a cable running from your network card to your motherboard. If you remove it, it may disable WOL. 

This is pretty well documented in the snmpd.conf file found in Debian and probably other distros. I find this option very useful as it eliminates the need for a specific monitoring agent. 

Pfsense will do this for free and will allow you to use Radius as a backend whom can be used against an LDAP. It works really well and will give some a lot of other features if you ever wish to add new features or services. 

You should seriously consider DRBD. DRBD is a RAID1 over TCP-IP software. It will replicate a block device over any link in real time. Every time you modify a HD block, it will replicate it. It is FS-agnostic therefore you can put any FS you want on top of it. It will also work hand-in-hand with heartbeat which will allow you to start the hot spare as soon as the original node dies. 

The dig answer may vary from host to host but you should not get any empty "ANSWER SECTION". If you can resolve using OpenDNS using dig but not using wget or curl, that means that your system has not reachable DNS server configured. If that is the case, consider editing /etc/resolv.conf 

Your question as it is asked currently is kind of like asking "is a door secure ?". There is no real answer to that. If it's unlocked, it's useless. If it's a crappy lock, it's 90% useless and so on. If the database server is in a VLAN on it's own, it's pretty much useless as it cannot communicate with anyone else. If it is in a routed VLAN then it's somewhat more useful. Just placing a server in a separate VLAN gives you no extra security. Placing a server in a separate VLAN with IP/L4 filtering starts giving you a litte security. VLANs are just one tool amongst many that must cooperate to obtain the desired level of security. Don't forget that in matters of security, the point of failure is almost always the weakest link. This means that if your server is badly configured, no amount of network security will secure it. If your network currently does not have VLAN, I would suggest to put a software firewall on your DB server and secure the OS/SQL services. 

Encryption is a tedious process that requires CPU time. This is even more true in the case of 3DES which is DES done three times. Disabling it will give you a little performance boost by deleting all the overhead headers and encryption. The difference should be rather minimal (10% at most I'd say). It surprises me that you can disable encryption in IPSec. Anyways, I am pretty sure that it's not meant to be used like that. If you want to have a tunnel without encryption, you shouldn't be using IPSec but PPTP or L2TP. MTU shouldn't be a problem in this situation, but you should take a look anyways. 

Could this be an option ? I'm not sure I understand your problem perfectly right but I'm pretty sure you can't SFTP if your user has /bin/false shell. 

This is extremely useful in a network-route configuration as it is used for the routing taking place in the dom0. If it's IP configuration for the domU itself, it has nothing to do with Xen. Just make the network configuration persistant in the domU. 

The solution After deleting two thirds of the entries in the database, it only freed up 200MB of disk space which is senseless. We ended up dumping the content and re-importing it taking care to enable "innodb_file_per_table". We will just have to wait and see if this fixes the solution in the long term but it seems to be the case for the moment. 

If you don't have to mess with the install of Xen, go with it. It provides better performance and security isolation. It's performance is pretty much on par with OpenVZ (maybe a bit lower). Xen handles really well situations where you have one VM trying to overload everything while I am not so sure how well OpenVZ handles that. But, in the end, you are right, you probably won't see a difference. 

This will happen if you are low on memory... Check your memory usage and also check your cpu usage. If you have a lot of io_wait then get more memory and allocate more to the dom0. 

Works perfectly fine on Debian/Ubuntu with the nVidia drivers. You have given us very little info but I think I remember having this problem with ATI drivers a while back. 

Cable management has the huge advantage of advoiding random downtime because a person pulls a cable by accident. These accidents are really stupid but it happens to the best of us really. Cable management allows to avoid this greatly. It allows much more rapid removal of servers from a rack. It allows you to be able to service servers very rapidly. It allows your rack to look nice. For the airflow, I don't think there is a real difference... 

I'm not a sharepoint expert. If you sharepoint data is not stored in an LDAP compatible store (Windows Active Directory is one of them), it's not going to get accessed using LDAP. I doubt such software exists but you can always code it ;) 

You can always replicate the SAN data indeed but considering the price and specs of SAN boxes, there are highly available to themselves. This is only true if you actually get a decent SAN obviously. This does not mean that your disks become more reliable though... Always use some sort of RAID technology to protect (i.e. not RAID0) your data accross disks. 

I think the solution to the error message you are getting is pretty straight forward. You need to create the slapd.conf file and put it in the directory corresponding to . OpenLDAP for Windows should come shipped with example files. They may even be located in the directory mentionned previously under a slightly different name such as slapd.conf.example 

You can define a blacklist for different files. All you have to do is blacklist .torrent files. But in reality you should have a decent firewall capable of blocking Bit Torrent ports... Any firewall will do this with a bit of configuration and tweaking. If you really don't want a firewall, you could always use an IDS such as Snort to watch the traffic and notify you of any BT traffic. 

Considering the above information, everything seems to be running perfectly fine yet in reality no data gets copied over. I modify the master database and no changes show up on the slave database. What am I doing wrong ? 

Use a DNS that will answer with the closest server to the user and put such servers around the world. This has other advantages such as giving a low-latency experience to your users. 

Have you considered using "redistribute static" on the router carrying the static route in question ? EDIT : If the route is not propagating from the "bridge" router, you must do "redistribute rip subnets" in your OSPFv3 configuration. 

They are exactly the same physically. Just beware that Gigabit ethernet use all pairs while 100Mbit Ethernet does not. Therefore if you have crappy connectors and/or cables, they may only support 100Mbit. That's the only difference I can think of. 

I'm not sure I have understood exactly what you want to do with this. But, have you considered strace ? It displays all system calls including files. EDIT : Don't forget the -f option that allows you to follow forked processes. 

All you have to do is to set up Xen in bridge mode. You can do that in the /etc/xen/xend-config.sxp by disabling 

You have OBM from Linagora. It's main objective is to replace Exchange. Most of the web site is in French but you can probably contact them and get info. 

You should consider using a standard Linux box with the appropriate number of gigabit NICs. You can use Pfsense as the OS, it will do everything you want through a website interface. 

I finally got this fixed ! I was doing way too much NAT. I deactivated nat-control, allowed same-security-level communication and got rid of most of the Nat stuff. Below is my working config. 

To resolve a host, you need UDP 53 outgoing (I'm supposing you're behind a stateful firewall). To use wget and curl with default port options, you will need TCP 80 outgoing. You will not be needing any incoming ports for this specific purpose. To check whether you can resolve hosts, you can use the dig command. If you wished to resolve www.google.com using OpenDNS, you would type the following command : 

There is nothing really complicated in this configuration. It just NATs from one interface to another and that's it. I have tried enabling same-security-traffic permit inter-interface but that doesn't help. I therefore must be missing something a little bit more complicated. Does anyone know why I cannot foward traffic from one interface to another ? Thank you in advance for your help, Antoine 

You can use the "route-nopull" option on clients that do not want to force all traffic into the VPN. 

If the switches between your Cisco 6509 and your servers are also Cisco you have an option to shut down all the ports if one (or more) ports goes down. You set a set of "upstream" ports and "downstream" ports. If all the upstream ports go down, the switch will take down the downstream ports. It is called link state tracking and it is designed for situations like yours. You will find a little info on this page. 

You should check the server log which will tell you all about the error. I agree with Andy, it's most likely the Options directive but the RewriteEngine directive can be problematic too. 

EDIT : As I have gotten a -1 for this here are a few sources : comparison of 7.2k disk and X-25E and Comparison of SAS/SSD/SATA. And quoting AnandTech : 

What you want to consider as well is Private VLAN. You put all your users in an single "normal" VLAN but only allow them to speak between specific ports. Basically, you emulate point to point between gateway and PC. Much more simple then any other solution mentionned here. 

Pfsense will do that for you. The feature in pfsense is called Captive Portal for your guests. The user list is either managed via a Radius server or a local database (makes it really simple to setup). For employees, you just have to enter the MAC of their PC and they won't be prompted for username/password. This indeed does require you to install a server but pfsense can really fit on any hardware. 

On a side note, you are doing this the wrong/overly-complicated way. The simple way to do this is to associate a "Virtual Mac address" to your failover IP addresses. You will find this option in the services tab of your server in the OVH Manager. This allows you to just bridge all the virtual interfaces associated with the given virtual Mac addresses. This way you also don't have to worry about any routing. Simple as it gets. EDIT : I just thought of something. Make sure you enable routing in you dom0 with net.ipv4.ip_forward=1. EDIT2 : After your comment, I went and had a look at what OVH recommends to do and you should try it. This is featured in this forum post. I don't know if you understand French but what it says is to put the following in your domU's network configuration.