According to your CPU specifications, as it is also on intel's website (and as you mentioned), your laptop' CPU can support DDR3-800/1066. In this case I would recommend two memory modules, since it supports dual channel memory. And for a better performance, I would also recommend two modules with the same memory and clock speed. In this case it would be 2x4GB memory sticks. In case if the manufacturer has "unlocked" the motherboard for higher speeds (which I doubt), you can check with a tool like HWiNFO, what is the current memory clock for each RAM module. (On the left side, under "Memory"). If they are running at 1333MHz as your original RAM, then go on and buy a pair with that speed, otherwise buy a pair of 1066MHz. 

The Kernel crash happens for many reasons. I will list below some of them, and what you can try out. 1. Driver Error Do you have the latest driver installed? If so, then try to install an older version and check if the problem persists. (Note that if you have a beta version of the driver, uninstall it and install a stable version. Also when a clean install is recommended. Keep in mind that if you do a clean install, all your profile settings will be deleted.) 2. Hardware Error Kernel errors happen also when some capacitors (or other components sometimes) get blown on the card. Open your card, and check it out. But you have to consider the fact that you might need to apply new thermal paste to the card. 3. Third-party Software Do you have MSI Afterburner beside EVGA PrecisionX 16? If so, please remove one of them. It is not recommended using two overclocking programs at the same time. 4. Other reasons Some other reasons could be other programs you use that might affect the card's work, overheating, low spin of the fan, overclocking etc.. Some cards do not work well overclocked for some games. So you can try underclocking (downclocking) the card. P.S. Please try the above, and if none works, give us more updates so we can try to help you! 

The "Where from" is a metadata/attribute created by Mac. Gmail does not add information to it's attachments. The same exact issue was discussed here: $URL$ 

Assuming the web root directory is under , and you need to redirect any sub-directory to the 'default' sub-directory, you would need an .htaccess rule like the following: 

Notes: It is recommended you verify your version of windows going to Computer > right-click properties.Also you can check it out if you go to Start > type "cmd" in the search box > type "winver" in cmd. On the version, you will also see if you have the service pack 1 or no. Please let me know if you still need help or if you solved the problem. 

Deleting the new partition you created (in this case labeled Windows 10), will change the drive to unallocated, and if you join it with the C partition, will change the drive to dynamic and making the booting impossible. If you want to delete the Windows 10 partition (where later you can install windows 10), go on and do so (if you have nothing on that partition). Later you can convert the C: partition back to primary. Use a free tool, like Partition Master. You can convert the drive from logical back to primary, and after applying your computer will restart to complete the operation. To make it simple for you, I'm writing it in simple short steps: 

UPS stands for Uninterruptible power supply. The reason why an UPS is the most suggested device for your situation is because it provides all of the necessary features to keep your systems running (more than just the simple surge protector). A UPS does more than just protect your devices from sudden power loss. Not only does a quality UPS protect your hardware from sudden over-voltage (like a "surge protector"), it will also protect you from under-voltage and "clean" your power. If your power is very "dirty" (probably the case if you experience frequent outages), meaning AC frequency isn't stable, the voltage varies, ect., a UPS will utilize its battery to ensure that anything plugged into it receives clean power at a stable, constant frequency and a stable, constant voltage. This reduces the strain on your devices with in turn helps them last longer. Note that not every UPS is the same; you really do get what you pay for. Some of the cheaper models do not clean your power that well, for example. 

There is likely an option in the BIOS that you can adjust to force the integrated GPU to be used by default. I selected a board at random on ASUS's website (the new Z87-DELUXE) and looked through the manual. The setting you need to adjust appears to be which is located in > > on this new board. By default, is set to ; to force the integrated GPU to be used as the primary display output, select instead. If you cannot locate this setting in your board's BIOS take a look through the BIOS section of the manual; it can easily be found on Asus's website if you do not have the booklet anymore. 

Instead of piping the output of cURL into PHP, try downloading the installer first and then running it: 

It is all about the underlying wireless chipset the WiFi adapter uses. Read the manufacturer spec sheets for the adapter in question and see if it lists the chipset it is using. Be careful: the chipset can sometimes vary between different revisions of the adapter; make sure you look up the revision that is currently being manufactured. If the spec sheet does does not list the chipset, do some research with your favorite search engine and try to figure it out. Once you have the chipset, find the model on the chipset manufacturer's website (likely Realtek or Atheros) and it will more than likely list the supported features and protocols. Again, if not listed, do research with your favorite search engine. 

You mention that with would work if you got the full path to the file, how about and ? Because returns a line if a match is found anywhere in that line, your regex can match something that lacks s before the filename and still contains your search string. 

The Intel and onboard controllers are not true hardware RAID controllers; they are actually software controllers. The problem you are experiencing is that the RAID functionality is only supported under Windows, not Linux. Instead of letting the manage the RAID volume, switch the controller to (instead of ) in the and create a software RAID volume in the Ubuntu installer. You will get the same or better performance. Linux software RAID, usually with or is usually better than the onboard Intel controller anyway (I cannot remember which one Ubuntu uses by default off the top of my head; both are good though). 

It's related to the Omni-Path Architecture. Check the notes section in the cpu-world specs page for 8176F, and you'll notice Omni-Path mentioned. Details about the chip can be found here, which mention Omni-Path. 

According to the beep codes, the beep is caused by a faulty circuit. To troubleshoot the problem, there are some things you can do. Try a different pci slot (if possible) and if the problem persists, try to get another graphics card (with lower specs recommended) and try again if the problem happens again. Before doing anything, I would search if that graphics card is compatible with your motherboard, chipset and cpu. If according to the specifications everything is as it should, then go on and try another pci slot, and after that (if still the same), another gpu as I told you before. 

Connect your new drive as an external driver, with a SATA cable to USB (usually 3.0, but you can do that with two usb 2.0 ports also, like this one.) Clone your drive to the new drive with a tool like Disk Copy, but there are also other free tools you can try out. After cloning is completed, remove the old drive and insert the new one in it's place. Turn on your computer (running the windows in the new drive now), and connect the old drive with your sata to usb connector and format it. Insert the old drive in another free slot you have on your computer. 

Method II: If you already cloned the old drive to the new drive, but only make the new partition as the boot drive, and change it's letter, follow this steps: 

First thing I can think of is that maybe the camera drive was being updated at that moment. Second, it could be a virus which turns on the camera driver on the background. Honestly there are so many things that might have happened that it would be better to check if this happens again. It could also have been a type of "attack" from someone. To find out what the problem is, see if this happens again. If so, do a full system scan with your antivirus and also use other tools like AdwCleaner, HitmanPro, TDSSKiller. If you have a restore point to a near date, do first a system restore, then scan your system and check if the problem is still there. Uninstalling the camera driver and installing the one you find from your computer's website is recommended. Another thing that could be possible is that maybe an ad could have caused it to turn on (in case you don't use adblocker). 

I'm a little unsure about what you are asking. If you want to access other websites that are region blocked, you can do that by connecting to a proxy server or with a VPN service. If you are asking for a way to turn your own laptop into a proxy server, you need some web server skills to do that. You can find a tutorial on Lifehacker on how to Bypass Heavy-Handed Web Filters with Your Own Proxy Server. Please let me know if you need more help. 

Clean up temporary files and registry key issues with a free tool like CCleaner, and try to reinstall SP1 update. Download off-line version of Windows 7 Service Pack 1 and try to install it. Try to update microsoft update, and try again the update. 

Today when I got to work and started my computers I got a event reminder for my last events last friday. I closed the reminder, but perhaps 10 minutes later it pops up again, and another 10 minutes later it popped up yet again. As the day is passing all my reminders for this day is added to the list of reminders that keep popping up 10 minutes after that they are closed. I've tried both the repair function in Windows Control Panel --> E-mail and the scanpst.exe program, but none of them solved the problem. I've tried and , but that didn't help either. Reading on the net there seem to be some reports with this for reoccuring calendar events, but my affected events are one-timers. How can I get the closed reminders to stay closed? Update: I noticed that I have 282 drafts of the meetings that I keep getting reminders of. 

I'm currently running F3 to see if reported disk size has been hacked. Should be another 12 hours to go before I have the answer. Edit: F3 reports all good. Now, is there a way for me to test if this drive indeed is a SSHD or just a plain HDD? 

I bought a hard drive over the Internet, a 4TB Seagate SSHD (hybrid drive), but I have reason to believe that it is counterfeit. 

You should be able to use SystemRescueCD and GParted to change flags of partitions without wiping them. (As always when using partitioning tools have a backup of your drive first.) On the other hand if the computer is not behaving strangely there should be no harm in leaving the flag there. "If it ain't broken, don't fix it." Edit: I've found references on the net that EasyBCD with it's dual booting support should be able to manage the system flag. 

Most routers have some kind of static DCHP address ability so that a specific computer (or rather a specific MAC-address) always gets assigned the same internal IP-address by the DHCP server, and that IP-address is reserved and never assigned to anyone else. What this function is called varies between router brands (and sometime models) but it's a common function so you probably have it. Some models reserves an IP-address within the DHCP range and some outside it. Read the manual to see how your router should be configured for this. So: 

Turned off calendar syncronization on all Mountain Lion Macs, and the problem stopped. Re-enabled and the problem came back. Turned it off again and will let it stay that way unil Apple posts an update to Mountain Lion. 

The label says "Desktop HDD", but it is supposed to be a SSHD model and should therefore read "Desktop SSHD". The model ID (ST4000DX001) and part number don't match. The printed PN (1NS164-300) is for the 2TB version. The firmware specified on the label (CC41) doesn't match installed firmware (CN03). Installed firmware (CN03) is for Seagate Constellation SAS-series, not for SATA hybrid drives. Running a warranty check on Seagate.com says that there is no drive with the serial number printed on the label (W8E2D07P). QR-code printed on label for authenticity validation does not work. Manually running a authenticity validation on verify.seagate.com with printed code 26222609402 says that the drive is invalid. 

A computer in the office is running daily backups (as scheduled task) with the Windows XP built in backup software. The backups are slowing down the computer too much, so we want the backup to run after office hours, but then we want the computer to automatically shut down after the backup is complete. How do I make the computer to automatically shutdown after a completed scheduled backup?