Gwt an anti-static wrist band. Put your finger on the chips and see if you can feel vibration from the noise. You can also use your ear, try to figure out where the noise is coming from. Obviously remove any unnecessary cards. Try to figure out how to predict or trigger the noise. If you can trigger it or predict it you can more easily find the source. See if the noise occurs even when the computer is in the BIOS, then you know it's not software doing it. Once you isolate more where the noise is coming from e.g. a particular chip, then you could google that see if others have the issue, you can describe it here. ADDED The questioner clarifies that he meant video noise not audio noise. I mention, possibility of using a cheap video card to troubleshoot, and if that works(no video noise), then you could use that card, or get a pricier video card. Or you could replace the motherboard. 

You could open task manager(ctrl-shift-esc), and end task explorer.exe then (file..new task..explorer.exe) start it again. (I can't vouch for whether or not you will lose your connection during this though) You could also end task other processes. (It may be a memory thing. I've had that even with 16GB RAM, you could end task any unnecessary processes) You have already made sure to end task any existing processes of the one you are opening, before opening it, that's right. You could run process monitor and try to see what files or registry entries it is dealing with, for clues as to why it is not opening. I haven't used process monitor for a program that won't open before, but you could try that. 

When I try to open a word document that is already open, I want it to just activate the window where the file is open. How can I do that? sometimes it takes time to check if an ms word document is already open, I don't to have to have to check through a bunch of open word documents to see if it's in there or not, I just want to double click the icon of a word document, and if it's open then go to it, if not then open it. With the doc/docx or shortcut to the doc/docx , I have some files where when I double click , it activates it when already open. I have other files where double clicking will bring up a "file in use" dialog box. I can't find what is the cause. I want it to always activate the window rather than reopen it. update- maybe that is default behaviour to activate when already open, and after a crash I had that stopped. i'll try deleting the working files and starting ms word again, idea from here 

When you clone a hard disk(not a partition but a whole hard disk), the entire partition structure of the second drive is replaced. If you clone drive A to drive B, then it does (I think) byte for byte.. (with I think hopefully some adjustments for hard drive geometry) and empty space. I've used Macrium Reflect (it's free by the way), and made say an image of one drive and written it to another, and yeah it writes over the existing structure. But unlike dd, it also makes adjustments for hard drive geometry.. so the hard drives don't have to be the same size. And unlike dd, it takes into account empty space rather than copying it blindly, so you don't need to defrag. There is a question as to whether clonezilla cloning does. I guess it does. 

And work:~# is the firewall you can't control When you write server, I see from context (ssh -D 4096 server), that you mean SSH server. (and not e.g. VNC server). You should specify really, it's clearer. Normally if you have an SSH server it'd be on either work or home. It should be on the computer with the firewall that you can control, that is, Home. You'd also typically have a regular server that you want to reach, and that's normally not an SSH server. Though it can be, there's a question with a great example of where one might want it to be. Perhaps you can explain more what server:~# is, but i'm going to skip it out in the meantime 'cos it seems unncecessary and it's not clear what you mean by it 'cos if you have an SSH server e.g. on work then you'd get a prompt work:~# So what you do is From the one you can't control i.e. work, you make an outgoing connection. 'cos the firewall lets them out. 

I was speaking to a relative at work, they didn't want me to "access their screen" remotely(and perhaps rightly so).. They wanted to print something. They were describing what they were seeing, and I have no idea.. They were in their browser and wanted to print. I said try right click and click print. He said he did that, and he got a SAVE AS dialog box. I got him out of that. Then i told him to click File..Print, he did that and said he gets/he described a save as dialog box. I got him out of that again. I talked him through/ told him to press print screen, open paintbrush, paste.. He got what he wanted to print in there. He said File or Print has a cross in it. I said , is this separate from the cross in the top right hand corner. He said it's a different thing, it's like a jesus cross. I have no idea. Has anybody ever seen anything like that? Anybody know what he was looking at? Accepted answer requires a screenshot of it! (not photoshopped!) 

To answer your first question then. The article mentions nothing of cpu address space, and it's not easy to even find that term used on the internet! 'cos CPUs have some registers(cpu memory locations), but not like a big space that needs a map or some kind of index to find things! And the term CPU doesn't even occur anywhere in that article you linked to. The article says RAM GETS the info from elsewhere in the system, not from the RAM. It gets it from the BIOS (the BIOS uses CMOS memory.. which is memory that has a battery to power it... and is set in the BIOS setup manually.. but can find some things automatically). And possibly the memory map has a flexible aspect and new things are loaded in. But RAM starts without any memory map put in. That answers your second question. And in your third question you got it wrong, the article doesn't say memory map is passed to the firmware - NO!! It says the opposite (the firmware is not RAM, there is no RAM firmware). The basic program of the BIOS would be firmware. But it can store data which can be changed. And as an additional note, There is something called SPD.. which DDR RAM uses to send data to the BIOS on request (as mentioned by this rather advanced article) $URL$ SPD is mentioned in the BIOS.. I've configured a BIOS on a system where it said get RAM details from SPD, of enter them manually. (so one could overclock the RAM). No memory map of course.. just something basic like what speed it is meant to run at and other stuff SPD gets that is mentioned in that article. Other things in the BIOS are manually entered data. And to view the or a memory map 

The main screen showed them as the same once I double clicked one and viewed the two files in a new tab to view the files, then the previous tab I was in, if I recall, updated to show this. that ggg.a was the same (Despite the byte difference). 

I don't see anything online about how to do it in word, and it can't be done natively by windows 7(though wordpad, unlike notepad, can open-view files with *nix line endings, it can't save them). But there are ea ton of 3rd party programs that do it. I use cygwin and its dos2unix and unix2dos commands.. others use gvim if they're brave( or ), or any number of text editors.. ADDED- It looks like the batch file gurus(and a few gods) of dostips forum have something Which tells me that powershell gurus might too $URL$ 

On a Windows 7 machine I wanted to install some languages I tried it requires updates. It has said "Checking for updates" for over 20 minutes. I suppose I could just keave it. Can I get any indication of progress / % complete/how much longer, on "checking for updates"? It has a bar that is just for show not really a progress bar 

The thing you describe will get the html of the webpage returned at a command prompt. You need to make a raw connection to the http server That concept is quite far beyond your knowledge though if you thought an HTTP request would get an IP. And making an HTTP request is not relevant to getting an IP. But on that subject of making an HTTP request (which is what that GET command is doing), there is a program called telnet that comes with Windows.. but people don't tend to use it much.. and it might only do the telnet protocol, and not do raw. People tend to use alternatives like Putty. Using nc in cygwin is an alternative You can download cygwin and then you may have to download the nc package, then use the 'nc' command.. I must say i'm not having great success getting the page, but this is the idea. 

or <--- if your port is port 1234 See that it shows 0.0.0.0:1234 You could always start a server on the port e.g. nc in cygwin, or you could try any server.. BRS Webweaver, BPFTP, Apache, ssh VNC, whatever your server is. Your server program is fine. Now try to connect to your server. You could use telnet. Telnet ip port e.g. Telnet client in Win7 needs to be enabled. Or you could with cygwin use the nc command to connect to a server. so See if it connects. See if you can connect from the machine itself, do Once you have tested that you can connect from your LAN. Only, Once you can connect from your LAN, then you do the port forwarding. Looking at the description of the program you mention $URL$ It says it makes its own program on the port you are testing. So if you find that one gives you a green light, but online port scanners don't, then maybe your program isn't listening on a port. You need to test