I found the answer and it is so ridiculously simple its scary. I had been running the same command over and over each time I wanted to reboot, using the shell history. 

This has been going on for a while. Raspbian B+ regularly updated and kernel updated, nothing connected other than Ethernet cable and power supply is Pi rated(from ModMyPi with a ModMyPi noodle cable). This Pi has UV4L and Motion installed and . With a NOIR camera set to capture images when threshold of change met. Images are moved off the Pi and there is plenty of space. Basically this setup works and will normally run for 2-3 days before no more images are captured. At this point I can ping the Pi but not ssh in. No errors, just never completes after entering the password. I can not find any issues in the logs and after finding a daily cron based reboot was not enough to resolve the issue I have installed the watchdog daemon. Unfamiliar with the watchdog settings I have set the one from most tutorials But it still seems to get stuck. I tried ssh-ing in after it started up and left running when that failed I captured the following. 

Rasbian and at least earlier editions of Raspbmc have a DHCP client active as standard. When an ethernet cable is connected correctly and the PI is powered then the "FDX" and "100" LAN LEDs should be lit. When connected to the network traffic is indicated via the "LNK" LED $URL$ 

fstab is the file /etc/fstab which is the File Systems TABle. It contains the instructions of how to handle mounted file systems, think hard drives and USB pen drives. if I look at my Raspberry Pi /etc/fstab I get 

Is there any indication what is wrong and what I can ask the watchdog to watch? I also found the message in the dmesg even though running returns 

Step one, power the pi from a separate power source. Step two plug the hub into the mains and then the HDD into the hub. Step three if the HDD is now operational (making some noise leds on etc) then plug it into the Pi. Step four run 

You have to ensure that all the devices on the switch have the same ip address range and netmask. These particulars are usually handled by a router via DHCP but you are free to set these values manually on each device or run your own DHCP server(never tried that). Based on the ip 192.168.2.2 for Pi1 you would want an address of 192.168.2.n for Pi2 and another 192.168.2.n address for the Mac. This is achieved with a netmask of 255.255.255.0 e.g. Pi1 

although it's not directly important, neither the /home/pi/reboot.txt nor the /home/pi/logs/cron.log get created on boot. Both commands work fine when run from a shell New Raspian install (2015/05/05 image) with apt-get update and apt-get upgrade 

Unplug everything including, network cable, wifi dongle mouse, keyboard. So only the video cable and the SD card are connected. Not all SD cards are fully compatible with the Raspberry Pi. $URL$ Try the latest noobs install to confirm that it is the card or the Raspmc image at fault. $URL$ 

to get motion to work(out of the box) you can install the Userspace Video4Linux2 It will create the /dev/video0 device node correctly on the Raspberry Pi. I have just followed the install instructions and not only does motion just work, the example(optional) motion.conf sets up the Pi as a streaming server so that you can access it remotely in a browser. the developer is asking for donations, I am definitely going to contribute. 

this will tell you the number of network packets that successfully get to the Pi and the IP address that raspberrypi.local represents to the Windows machine. Then run 

There is a nice autostart guide that explains how to setup the /etc/xdg/lxsession/LXDE/autostart file to autostart Midori when the Pi boots into X. Let us know how you get on. 

All thing being equal, yes. That of course precludes, power failures, power spikes(excessive), physical damage, media failure(SD card), manufacturing faults, software bugs etc. The real question is what do you want to run ON the raspberry Pi for 24*7*365 ? 

Means the host PC cannot find a connection at the translated IP address from raspberrypi.local. It can result from a number of core issues. The Pi does not have SSH enabled. If you have followed the tutorials and there have been no errors, then this seems to have been enabled. The Pi has changed IP address and the PC has not noticed. You can plug the Pi into a monitor and check the IP address currently assigned. 

this will list all the network devices on the PC and tell you their IP addresses. come back and lets us know the values and we may be able to troubleshoot further. 

You need to eliminate each part of the system. Try a new SD card from the list of supported peripherals sd cards Test the power being supplied Please unplug everything and check the power test points. Its also worth noting that USB power plugs often fail to supply the require 5v EVEN if they are labelled to do such. My own experiments showed that a difference of just 0.15v(avg) was enough to cause sporadic stability issues, that would affect the image on the SD card. Find another Raspberry Pi user and test your SD card in their system. When you do find out what was causing the issue please come back and comment so others can benefit. 

As jDo said you can just deal with the situation as another set of GPIO pins. Here is my blog post where I did just that $URL$ The code simple copies the previous stepper motor code and changes the GPIO pins assignments. You pass in the number of steps you want each motor to do on the command line. 

Depending on how applications write to the screen certain VNC servers may not be able to "see" the application. I saw RealVNC at the Raspberry Pi birthday celebrations bragging how their application (free for Pi users but requires registration) can handle many of these including Minecraft Pi. $URL$ 

that is how my two NoIR cameras came. Remove protective cover and manually place the blue filter with sellotape etc. 

As your questions stands, yes you can plug a ribbon cable into the Pi. This is the same as manually connecting each GPIO pin to a single piece of wire. What are you plugging it into? As with any hardware on the GPIO I would recommend only plugging/unplugging when the power is Pi is off and the power disconnected. 

You can boot from the SD card then just use an attached SSD, but you can not get around using the SD card for booting. Once booted you can make the SD card read only and make sure all the software etc is running of the SSD 

Your best be is to get the Raspberry Foundations own browser ... $URL$ but this is beta and comes with all the expected beta warnings. 

sounds like power issues. Please unplug everything and check the power test points. Its also worth noting that USB power plugs often fail to supply the require 5v EVEN if they are labelled to do such. My own experiments showed that a difference of just 0.15v(avg) was enough to cause sporadic stability issues, that would affect the image on the SD card. 

"proc" is special internal file system, so ignore that. The /dev/mmcblk0p[12] are the device files that the kernel added at boot time for each of the partitions on the SD card. The are mounted to /boot and / accordingly. When you add another device, like an external HDD you append(or the OS does it for you) a new line. Along the lines of 

The Raspberry Pi camera does not present itself out of the box as a standard uv4l device and as such generic Linux programs can not "see" the device. There is a great third part tool available UV4L that will create the necessary device nodes for standard media applications. I use it with Motion very successfully. My blog entry discussing it. 

Watch out for the screen saver. If you do not have a keyboard or mouse plugged in the screen will go black thinking there is no input. Plugin a keyboard/mouse and press a key or give it a wiggle. If you are running a kiosk type setup you can disable the the screen blanking with