But this article on repairing damaged HDMI cables might come in handy. In the end... just getting wall plates that don't need to be wired might be the way to go. 

According to Logitech, this camera is the QuickCam Chat camera and this camera is the Quick Camera Chat for Skype. I'm not saying that one of these is the same as YOUR camera, but these are the ones that Logitech called "Chat" by name. Now, wherever you got the Serial number from, there should also be a MODEL number, or M/N:. Logitech was quite thorough about that. I've got a really old Logitech Clicksmart 310 sitting here in front of me, and they were making sure to include the model number even back then. Have you tried the Logitech Autodetection feature? Just choose Option 1 and allow the software to install, and detect the camera. Make sure the camera is plugged into the computer. EDIT: I've found two different sites selling the same serial number, but what appears to be a different appearance. This one matches the first link at Logitech I gave you and This one which doesn't match either image at Logitech, but most likely has the same internal hardware. This leads me to believe that the first link I gave you is the right one.... so the drivers for M/N:V-UAP42 should do the trick. 

Small form factor Dell Optiplex. What... a GX270 that has either had blown capacitors replaced/motherboard with blown caps replaced, or will NEED them replaced? One of those Optiplex? I only ask, because are you looking for an AGP half Height card? Are you fixed on that Radeon X1300 because of some review? Are you limited to only PCI cards? I know that Superuser isn't the Shopping Network, so I know you aren't looking for different cards to purchase and whatnot... That DMS-59 is supposed to be more than a simple splitter, so the VGA/DVI version should work as your client wants. However, if you want to be sure, just buy this card instead. It is PCI, so whether or not the Optiplex has an AGP slot this will work, it comes with two low profile brackets (one for the card and the DVI, and the other for the VGA on a pigtail). 

The switch will allow you to share information between all three computers, once you have connected them all to the switch with normal ethernet cables... providing they all have IP addresses in the same range. You can manually set the IP addresses, OR you can set the computer that will have the dongle plugged into it to use Internet Connection Sharing... in which case that computer would tell the OTHER computers what IP address to use. Should you buy a router? Only if you intend to purchase Internet service from a company that will provide you with a stand alone modem. You would connect the modem to the router, and the router would then "route" the internet connection to all the connected devices. If you wish to stick with the dongle, you can still use a router, but setting it up would be more complicated, and actually redundant, since most of the functions of the router would already be done by the computer with the dongle plugged into it that you had set up for Internet Connection Sharing. 

AviDemux has a Mac version, and handles multiple file types. MPEG Streamclip has a Mac version and handles a few file types, but is purported to be a bit basic. ZS4 has a Mac version, but is a different kind of editor. Might be worth a look, considering it's free. HyperEngine AV is a free Mac editing tool. Of course, you could always install Windows on a part of your hard drive using Bootcamp, and then use TMPGEnc again... or any other Windows editing tool. 

VLC does have defaults for incremental jumps. Before dealing with the specific length of time for each... very short jump back/forward short jump back/forward medium jump back/forward long jump back/forward Now, if you go to the Preferences, and change from simple to All, expand the Interface option, and go to the Hotkey Settings section, you will see there below the window of hotkey choices where you can define the length of time for each of those jumps. So, you can set the Very Short Jump to be just one second, and the Short Jump to 3 seconds... to speed up both of your movements. 

You can think of the Serial Number as a VIN (Vehicle Identification Number) if that helps. You can think of it as a person's name. You can think of it as the bar code on a can of tuna. The Serial Number is an identifier for that product or object. If there was an issue with your particular object, product, or OS installation media, tracing the serial number could result in revealing a problem during production... as that serial number can be used to identify when and where something was manufactured. That's down to the date, time, and location in a particular production facility. The Product Key... that's not a serial number. In this specific case (since cans of Tuna don't have Product Keys... unless you count the Can Opener) the Product Key is just that... a key. The installation (identified by the serial number) is locked, and must be unlocked to be used. To unlock (activate) it, you need the key. A Serial Number can be publicly displayed. It can be openly available and searched. A Product Key must be kept out of the public eye and reach... which means you might say that a Serial Number is the number posted on your house or mailbox, while the Product Key is the key to your front door. 

You can't have SlickRun use a keyboard shortcut. MagicWords have to be assigned to programs, URLs, or shortcuts. So, it doesn't seem all that intuitive at first. However, with that said... First, you create a shortcut to lock the workstation. 

You have a Mac? Well, it should have come with iMovie, which is part of the iLife package. using iMovie, you can simply drag and drop the images from the folder they are in, onto the editing time line. Space them out according to how fast you want them to display, drag and drop a song onto the audio portion of the time line, and export it as a movie. iMovie'11 

So, a combination of subtracting 1 from the page number, and not displaying any page numbers less than 1 should do it... provided that the TOC is the only page you are wanting to skip... or subtracting 2 if you want to skip a title and TOC, etc. 

You could set up a web server on your server, create a page with links to the files, and then just use the server logs to show you who downloaded what and when. If you want it more secure, you could put the page behind an .htaccess file. If you just want to make sense of the FTP logs generated by the FTP server built into your server, you can use the Microsoft Log Parser. Here's a nice article about detecting FTP leechers on the FTP server, just for a different viewpoint. This little thread at iis.net also links to the parser, as well as some other tools to help sort out that log. 

Boot the PC from sysprep generalized hard disk. You will notice Windows booting as if it was the first boot after installation, installing default and updating registry. One or two reboots are needed, depending on your system specifications When Windows finally boots up, you will need to enter all information as if this really was a new, fresh installation 

You have confirmed this yourself by seeing the problem go away when you stop using and/or disconnect the laptop's WiFi adapter. There are multiple other devices that operate on the 2.4ghz spectrum... including the microwave oven that is probably in your kitchen, cordless land-lines, etc. It could even be WiFi signal interference from your phone, if your cell phone also connects to your WiFi router. Until significant changes are made to how Bluetooth operates, or how WiFi operates, problems like this will continue to happen between the two. 

Your issue is not with Cakewalk. The software is not "too slow". The software is not too huge. This has nothing to do with the size of the installation, or the fact that you are using it on a netbook, etc. Your issue is with LATENCY. You will have this problem regardless of what sequencer program you use, because it is a hardware and driver issue. You need to install Zero Latency drivers. Like, ASIO4ALL. You install them, and then you choose that for the output in the Cakewalk settings, rather than your current audio drivers. Then, you will hear what you hit, when you hit it. 

Clicking this will clear whatever you have already selected to burn, and change the little input view to an image of the Disc Layout Editor. 

So, there is Devcon.exe for Windows 7 for you. It works with Windows 7, and it is free. Instructions taken from the Microsoft Answers forum. 

Yeah... good advice. Know your socket. At least it sounds like good advice, until you realize there like a gazillion coolers out there, all that will work on your socket. Hell, without trying to shop FOR you, I can tell you that THIS is your processor, and it is socket LGA775. Heck, you could use the after market cooler I'm using with my AMD Phenom II x6 T1100... since it is a great cooler, and it works with a multitude of sockets. But, then I'm recommending a product, and that is approaching the whole shopping prohibition. You are afraid that your computer is shutting down due to overheating. Well, first of all, the stock heat sink and fan that comes with a processor when you buy the retail package is nothing to get psyched about, but it is more than adequate to cool the CPU. So, as has kind of been pointed out to you already, you need to actually examine what your temperatures are. Which means your question should really be... How do I find out if I need a new heat sink? First, you start with a program like Speedfan. You see what your temperatures are currently at. Then, if you are actually overheating, you take a close look at your existing heat sink and how it is mounted. For all you know, it might not be seated properly on the processor. There might not be an even, thin layer of thermal paste between the processor and the heat sink. The fan might not be spinning properly, or mounted on the heat sink right. There might even be a ton of dust within the heat sink that is keeping the air from flowing through it. So, more important than posting the specs for your video card, you should be posting your current temps. Pics of your heat sink. Pics of what your processor looks like immediately after pulling your heat sink off. 

You can set the Airport to get DNS from a service like OpenDNS, and then set a blacklist at OpenDNS to block the IP you don't want the iPad to connect to. This would affect every device that connects to your Airport, not just the iPad though. It's a solution, but not the one you were looking for. The forums at Macworld and Macrumors have a lot of people commenting about how you can't blacklist directly with an Airport Extreme, and this seems to be the solution that works for them. From one such post... 

Static external/public IP address? Static internal/private IP address? You mean the IP address you get from your Internet Service Provider is static? Is that the one you are talking about? If so, you need to call your ISP and ask them to change it, since they are the ones giving it to you. This address is not determined by the modem. In fact, you are most likely paying more money just to have the static IP address. You can have them give you a cheaper dynamic IP address which will then change every few days. 

The short of it... from Redmondpie comes an article on setting up your Windows 8 computer as a wireless hotspot. Essentially it tells you to use one of two apps... Connecfity Hotspot and WiFi Hotspot Creator Do you need to read the article? Nope. Are the Apps a quick and easy way to do this? Yep. So, can it be done? Yep. 

First, it appears that $URL$ the people who made the Gameport accounting client/server system for use in internet cafes and such... doesn't exist any more. It is actually available. So, it's not being developed at all, anymore. One of the last major reports on it, and security vulnerabilities within it, was back in 2004. There does not appear to be a client written to be installed on an XBox anywhere out there. So, with no further development on the software and no client for the environment you want to use, you are pretty much out of luck. Don't be fooled into thinking that it's still supported, just because you can find some download sites that still have it available. 

At this point, disconnect the drive. It will be ready for you to put into your new build. Once you have the rest of the parts, connect the drive. 

Pause it with the option built-in to Chrome, and hibernate the computer. If the SERVER that is providing the download supports resuming downloads, then after you resume from hibernation, you should have no issues resuming the download. After you pause the download, there is no need to touch Chrome. Just pause, and hibernate. By that I mean, don't close Chrome. Don't kill it or edit anything. Just pause the download, leave Chrome up and running, and hibernate.