Yes. You need better cooling. In Theory you can overclock processors to phenomenal speed increases provided you can cool them properly and provide them with a dependable current. However, the cost of the increased cooling (in what you would have to purchase to be able to cool it) would outweigh the cost of a better processor. It's not a matter of hating on you because it is an older processor. It is a simple matter of economics. Standard cooling won't handle the overclock. This means purchasing an aftermarket cooler design that is not something that would simply reduce temperatures by a few degrees. This would most likely mean a water cooling rig, a superior heat sink that is separated from the processor itself with heat pipes, a Peltier chip cooler, or even a combination of a few of these technologies. For example the Ultra Chilltec cooler combines a fan and heat sink, heat pipes, a Peltier chip, and a separate temperature controller to provide exceptional cooling over standard CPU coolers. Something like that would allow you to overclock your processor to the speed you are looking for. However, at $150, you are just throwing money away. Why? Because an AMD Sempron 2800+ runs at 2.0ghz, which is the speed you want. It operates on the 333mhz bus yours runs on (so you can almost certainly just swap it for yours), and you can buy one for $16. So... what you would spend to be able to overclock that processor would exceed what you would spend to replace that processor, to achieve the same speed. Plus, replacing the processor would be far more stable. See... not hating on you or your choice. Just pointing out the economics of it. 

KDE... the desktop environment. As in... The KDE version of Linux Mint? Kbuntu? KDE Debian? You probably have the option already there. So, right click on the title bar of the Widow you want to keep on top, and see if there is the option there "Always on Top". That won't handle the activity detection, however. I don't know of any program that will keep a window on top while it is active, but after some period of time allow it to go to the background. Now, you could always install wmctrl and use the following command, if you don't have the option at the title bar. 

Go into the Control Panel and bring up the Power Options (or right click on the desktop, go to Properties, click the screen saver tab and then the Power button). 

Pin 1 is +5v. Pin 4 is the ground. According to the user guide (page 8) for the X220, the USB port on the right side just below the Media Card slot is an Always On USB slot, so as long as there is power in the battery and/or the unit is plugged in, that USB slot will provide power to any device plugged into it... regardless of whether the laptop is on or not. That means it is operating system and driver independent. That is the only USB port on that laptop which will provide an Always On connection. What is confusing, is why you would feel the need to find drivers to supply power to a USB port that is always going to get power anyway. You see, the other USB ports will supply power to any device that is plugged into them if the laptop is turned on. For example, if you were to purchase a USB desk fan or a USB desk lamp or even a USB powered heated travel mug and plug one of those devices into a working USB port, there are no drivers to install to get them to work. They will just work. Why? Because anything plugged into the USB port will get power (provided it is either an always on port, or the computer is on). This also means if you plug your phone into a USB slot, and don't install any software, it should still charge... just as if you used that same exact cable with a wall AC/DC converter... just like the kind used for iPods and HTC phones, and Samsung phones, etc. So, you need to explain yourself better... because if you took any standard USB cable, and cut the connections to pins 2 and 3, it becomes a USB cable that will only supply power. Just so you know, I've built several USB LED desk lamps from scratch.... just because I had the stuff sitting around and the soldering iron was hot at the time. 

From there Uncheck the box next to "Start Automatically when computer is restarted". Then restart the computer, and Music Manager should not start automatically. That should solve your problem. 

From the Lenovo forums, it would appear that you need to "recondition" the battery. This basically resets the battery, or rather the percentage of charge left indicator. 

but it is just as likely (if not more so) that it is just the design of your case front audio header and your specific motherboard that switches your speakers on and off depending on the presence of something plugged in the front. 

Image Courtesy of bjorn3d.com However... the whole reason for this out/return setup is simple, and it sounds like your case is making use of it. Better quality cases use headphone jacks that include a physical "switch" within them. 

No. You did not like this technician essentially telling you that he knew something you did not, and/or that he was better than you at something. This is why you immediately tried to think of how to better this technician, instead of actually realizing that what he was saying means nothing! It would not have hurt you in the least to have admitted right there and then that maybe he actually could FIND any file you had HIDDEN. Of course, you would have needed to have him define what hiding means in this context... since (again) it seems that "hidden" apparently means different things to different people. Regardless, your issue with his challenge has nothing to do with his boast, and everything to do with your inability to accept the possibility that he might actually be better than you at something. This is why you could not leave the challenge alone. This is why you do not appreciate absolute statements like that. Because the truth is, there are times when things will happen in your life and there WILL BE NOTHING YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT. You want a way to keep files you access regularly from being found? Keep them off your computer. How about that? Store them on a flash drive. Then, you can keep the files on your person at all times, and no one can access your laptop to get them when you are not near your laptop. Who made the stupid rule that all your files have to stay on your laptop at all times? I'm not talking about this technicians childish boasting and whatever game you have turned this into. Once you encrypt the file, or hide it in an image, or remove it from your computer onto a flash drive, then his game is over. Why? Because you did not get the parameters of this challenge defined... and I can guess what they are. 

According to your Manual which you can download from Asus there are no settings in the BIOS which would limit the amount of memory the system recognizes. I'm sure if you went into the Tweaker section, you could manually alter settings that would make the system NOT recognize your memory... but simply loading the defaults (by the Load Defaults button on the first page of the BIOS) would remove any of those settings. And yeah, it supports 32gb of 2200mhz DDR3 Ram. You didn't go messing about with changing those settings, did you? I mean, you didn't say that you did. You did hit the Load Defaults, just to clear the BIOS back to the default state, right? Well, if loading the defaults doesn't do it, I'd RMA the board. 

You could use Vixy to record and convert it straight off the net, if you remember where you got that flash file from. You could try AoA Audio Extractor as it is made to rip audio from FLV (Flash Video) files. You could install Audacity and then just use it to record the audio output of your computer, as you play the SWF file from the net. As to the SWF file crashing when you play it with VLC... well, it could be crashing to the file being corrupt. Go back to the source and start again. 

Well... with LCD, white isn't so much a color as it is the absence of any filtering in the liquid crystal, allowing just the white background to reflect light through. That said, you can see the white spots behind white background pixels. What happens when there is a color over that spot. Do you still see some kind of mark there? Are you sure it is not something on the screen (sneeze debris, etc) that didn't come off when you cleaned it? If they stay white regardless of the color there, but only show when the screen is on, then they are most likely now dead pixels. But it is really hard to mark up the background reflector that is behind the LCD panel. 

It isn't Malware. It is a program that allows you to download subtitles easily for movies. So... if you selected a movie called "Inception.avi" and right clicked on it, and then clicked on that "napiprojekt" the net would be searched, and a text file would appear in the same directory. That text file would contain the subtitles for "Inception.avi". That's the theory, any way. The Original Polish site A Napi Clone As to how you got it... you have provided no history as to how frequently you download movies, or whether you rip and convert DVDs to AVI files, etc. Who knows... it could have been included with an obscure codec pack that you installed at one time. However, as I said, it's not Malware or Spyware. You can try System Tray Cleaner to get rid of it. 

Download and use Process Explorer as it provides much more detail as to what is running on your machine. For one, instead of just providing the general "system" process in Task Manager, it will detail what is grouped under this process. 

You could... ... install the Intellitype software that came with the keyboard, or download it from Microsoft. Then, customize the functions of the keys you want to remap through that software. It allows you to create/assign/manage Macros, so you could then set the media playback buttons to specifically play/stop/pause Flash videos on Youtube. Of course, if you'd like more Robust keymapping controls, you could skip the limited Microsoft software, and go with Autohotkey instead. People have had success remapping even their laptop Fn and Eject keys with this. 

Could it be the Modem? Since you imply that you have connected different devices on your network and experienced this same issue, it certainly isn't any one computer. So, yes. It could be the modem. Since you have multiple devices (you mention XBox, and you are typing on a computer, so that's two) you must have a router. Have you used the same router for all that time as well? If so, the problem could be your router. Have you contacted your cable company to have them check your modem from their end? If you did not purchase this modem on your own, I would contact Atlantic Broadband and request a new modem. After 5 years, you deserve one. 

Do you mean you cannot connect to the cameras while you are in the same building, connected to the same Local Area Network? Or do you mean that when you go home, you cannot connect to the cameras from your home computer? Because the solutions would be different. If you cannot connect to the cameras from a computer on the same LAN, then it is probably just a matter of adding the proper port to the end of the IP address. For example... if the camera is getting an internal IP address of 192.168.1.100 and it operates on port 8181, then you would try to view $URL$ If you are trying to connect to the cameras at your business and you are at home, and you have the IP address of your business connection, then you would have first had to forward the port in the settings of your router at work, to have the port linked to that specific internal IP address. Your business might have it's own IP address... like $URL$ or whatever... but that is the IP address that is assigned to everything that is going on at your business. If you have the modem at your business connected to a router so that multiple computers can all get online, then the router is assigning an internal IP address to each device that is connected to it, and that internal IP address is different from that external IP address. If each camera is attached to the router, then each camera is getting an internal IP address like 192.168.1.100 or what-have-you. Mind you, each camera would have a DIFFERENT address. Now, if you want to be able to view each camera, you would have to be able to assign each a different port to be viewed at, and then you would have to go into the admin settings of the router, and enter the port forwarding section. There, you could assign the camera ports to the specific internal IP addresses that each camera was getting. Then, when you connected to that external IP address your business has, and you added the proper port following a colon, you could view each camera. Otherwise, you just haven't supplied enough specific information regarding your setup to be able to diagnose your issue.