Well... in delving through the webmail.mozdev.org site, the forum, and whatnot... I found this lil nugget. 

Yes, although it may seem to you like it is not overheating, it is acting like it is overheating, and the temperatures you report would support the theory that it is overheating. You should be seeing GPU temps of 35-50C when idle, and 60-75C when under load. However, you report that you are seeing what would typically be a load temperature when you are just idling. Your report of seeing temps of 90c or higher under load point to overheating. If the PSU was at issue, meaning the card was not getting enough power because your PSU was inadequate, it is more likely that you would see nothing at all, at idle and under load. But... you can determine which the issue is by examining which light is coming on. D1601 - Over temp protection enabled D1602 - EXT 12V fault Those are the two lights that can and will light on an issue. So... take a closer look. If the D1601 is coming on, your issue is temperature. If the D1602 is coming on, then your issue is power. EDIT As it was pointed out to me that the word guess was used in reference to the temperature of the GPU at load, this begs a few questions. What is the ACTUAL temperature of the GPU at load? What program have you used to determine the temperature of the processor at load? If you are not actually sure of the temperature of the GPU under load, how can you express any certainty as to whether or not your issue is related to overheating? So... again. As I stated already... you can look to see which light is actually being illuminated to determine whether the card is overheating. Although I did talk about the issue possibly being overheating, I did ALSO provide a way to determine which the issue actually is. Of course, I had to guess as to what the actual card was, because that information was not provided. So it is quite possible that your card doesn't have two warning lights. Again... I don't know that, because I don't have all the information. I only have what you have provided. You can also use a program like GPU Caps Viewer to stress your card and observe the temps at load... if you haven't already. This way, you don't have to guess what the temps are at idle, and what the temps are under load. 

Windows Xp includes a feature as part of the security features to be able to pop up a message when users log on. 

That's from the same Wikipedia article you linked to. SO yes... the problems do just scale. It's just an LCD display with a better than average resolution. 

I agree with you that it is most likely not an issue where the router is dropping the connection, and I agree for the same reasons... you would see ALL of your wireless devices drop. Now... when you say drop... you mean that the wireless connection is broken AND it is not automatically reinstated. I make that distinction simply because the iPod and the laptop could also be dropped, but they could re-establish their connections, and you might not notice this. Is the environment an issue? As has been pointed out, cordless phones that operate at 2.4ghz will interfere with a 2.4ghz based wireless router. Soft materials like drywall, wood, furniture, etc.. will ALSO interfere with wireless signal strength. Large amounts of metal between you and the router will ALSO interfere with wireless signal strength. Maybe just making yourself a shield for the antenna on the router from Free Antennas and boosting the signal strength will take care of the issue. It could be the channel your router is operating on, if it is at odds with a neighbor's wireless router. This could happen if the computer that is using the wireless devices that are dropping is closer to a neighbor's home than the devices that are NOT dropping. Here is what I propose you do. Log into your router. Change the broadcast channel (don't use 1 or 6 or 11 as they are the standard channels most widely used). If you are using the default SSID (name) like "linksys" or "default" or "netgear" or "belkin54g", change that to something unique. This will cut down on people unintentionally attempting to access your router. Make sure that you are using wireless security, but step down on the type. If you are using WPA2, step back to WPA. If you are using WPA, step back to WEP. If you are using WEP 128bit, step back to 40bit. Why? The higher the level of security, the better the quality of connection you need to connect and STAY connected. Thus, you can connect reliably and constantly with a 40bit WEP secured connection where you might only be able to connect sporadically with a WPA2 connection. In short, I would stick a pin in the RESET hole in the back of your router, hold it for 10 seconds, and then set it up all over again, from the ground up. New name, new channel, and base line level of security. Why? Because that is MUCH easier than reinstalling your Operating System... which is one of the possibilities. If none of this works, and you feel like there is now something wrong with the install of Windows on your computer... you could be right. So... try removing the OS from the equation. It is potentially easier than it sounds. For one, you could download Linux Mint and boot to the LiveCD. It is a version of Linux with excellent hardware compatibility from the get-go. You wouldn't have to install it. It should work with your existing wireless hardware from the LiveCD. If you boot to the disc, and it DOES detect and want to use your wireless card, GREAT! Now, just use the LiveCD OS for a little while, and see if your connection drops. If your connection does NOT drop, then you know it is not a hardware or environmental issue... since just removing your install of Windows from the situation actually fixed the situation. Since you are talking about two different wireless cards (installed and USB) that disconnect at the same time, you can't really just uninstall and reinstall the drivers for them. If using the LiveCD shows that the problem is software, you are then facing a reinstall of Windows. But knowing how Windows works, and what most people face... reinstalling Windows fresh isn't really a bad idea on occasion. 

Now... here is what I mean. If you just caught your finger under the key cap (IE, the square piece of plastic that has the Q printed on it) and accidentally popped it off... and none of the tabs on the underside of the cap are damaged, and the two other pieces are merely the two halves of the X-hinge that keep the key cap stable when perched over the rubber nipple/plunger that actually performs the keystroke... then it would simply be a matter of re-assembling the two haves of the X-hinge together, connecting the key cap to one side of the x-hinge, mounting the x-hinge to the aluminum clips on the keyboard, and lining up the other half of the x-hinge below the key cap and above the other clips on the keyboard... then, with a downward press on the key cap, everything would be snapped into place. However, if the clips are broken on the underside of the key cap, or there are any parts of the x-hinge broken so it doesn't go together properly, or the pins at the corners of the x-hinge are broken so as not to attach to the key cap or keyboard, or the aluminum tabs on the keyboard are broken... then it's not going to go together well. If that didn't necessarily make sense... or if you'd like to read it described with smaller paragraphs or different terminology, there is this guide here at Laptopkey.com 

Does what work... that unknown and unnamed USB dongle? EVDO is a communications standard, not a brand or model name. That makes it a bit more difficult to see if there are known issues building a version of Chrome OS with that software already in it. In general though, I wouldn't expect that it could work with your dongle. CrOS Linux is a specific version of Linux that the people at Google have been working on, to work with some specific hardware. Chromium OS is a more generalized version of this that some motivated individuals have been working on to work on a wider scope of hardware. However, they cannot plan for every hardware combination. They expect you to have a network card or wireless network card and the OS includes generic drivers for such. It isn't even compatible with as wide a range of network interfaces as you will find in other versions of Linux. Here is what you do. You look to see if there are any Linux drivers and software for your USB EVDO dongle there. You contact Hexxah (if that's the version you downloaded) and see if he can help you get HIS build of CrOS to work with those drivers. 

... this is the socket for an Intel Core i7-3820qm. That's a mobile processor. Oh, and that's a laptop motherboard there. So, as you can plainly see, new and current generation processors can be replaced. The issue you will have, is one of whether or not the BIOS has been written to recognize the processor you want to replace your existing one with.... and of course, whether the processor you want will even work in the existing socket. Now, you might ask... why would a BIOS not recognize every processor put into the computer... or why a BIOS wouldn't be written ahead of time to just recognize every existing processor? Well, there are multiple reasons for that. 

According to the product information page (which isn't always 100%) and the downloadable qualified compatible memory vendors and products... there is no compatible 1333 Kingston with that board. That doesn't mean it definitely wouldn't work, just lowers the probability. According to the downloadable manual, there are two Kingston 1333 sticks listed, but one is 1gb and the other is 2gb... as far as compatible memory is concerned. However, the manual says nothing at all about the board being able to use both DDR2 and DDR3 Ram. More importantly... 

A quick search through the Chrome extension store turned up ToggleChat. Firefox Addons offers SeekSpeak. Safari doesn't list one, but also doesn't make searching for one very easy. Internet Explorer Add-on Gallery doesn't list one either. 

Step away from the traditional keyboard, and move to a flexible silicon keyboard like this Inland Pro, or this DekCel or any number of others. Or, if you need an Apple keyboard (you don't actually need it to be Apple specific since you can use any keyboard with a Mac) you can get this bluetooth/wireless flexible keyboard. You can expect any flexible keyboard to be quieter than a standard one. 

You could just stop playing with the screen brightness and volume control while you are working... and leave the WiFi on all the time. What work critical functions do you need that were controlled by a Fn combination? Most importantly, if your Fn key is critical to your work, why would you NOT take the time to get the laptop repaired properly? Chances are, what is wrong with your laptop is an issue with the keyboard itself, as opposed to an issue on the motherboard. What this means is that this is how your repair job would go. 

Only if the power coming from the DC adapter is interrupted or reduced past a certain point. If the DC adapter supplies close to the requirements of the laptop, the battery will not discharge while the unit is running on current being supplied by the mains. You can easily test this yourself by replacing your adapter with another of a similar wattage. For a more concrete example, a Toshiba Satellite A75 requires a 120 watt adapter (19v 6.3a) but you can use the laptop with a 90 watt adapter. You must take certain steps to lower the power drain (reduce screen brightness, lower processor speed, etc) or when the laptop has to work hard, it will kick off the 90 watt adapter, and start using just the battery. Otherwise, if the proper DC adapter is being used for a laptop, and there is no break in the flow of electricity, and the DC adapter does not fail, then the laptop will not use the battery. You could remove the battery if you so decided, and still use the laptop. This is not disputable. This is a proven fact.