the number is the number of seconds before the pointer disappears. In this case one one thousandth of a second. Another possible answer would be to run: 

here is the part where you check your twitter account as you can see from above twitter bots simply establish connections to twitter servers, so if you where to call the function again you would be able to have two active connections to different twitter accounts, and keep in mind this may be done a virtually limitless number of times. 

I would recommend that you look into something like this as it includes HTML5 hardware decoding and as Netflix now includes HTML 5 support it should be more effective than xbmc add ons. But as I have not personally tested it I can not vouch for its effectiveness. 

Be sure to replace the file path with your actual file path. Furthermore if you wish to have the video loop please use the line below instead of the one above. 

It will likely be too slow as the Pi zero isn't the greatest at processing compressed video on the fly. This is due to the limited CPU and gpu power of the Pi zero. On a side note if you did not already know the Pi zero does not have an Ethernet jack or wifi built in. So to get network access you will need to use a USB adaptor which will further latencies. 

Note: you have to put the command before the last line in /etc/rc.local that contains: We now save and close that file, then reboot the Pi. 

Now only one more step until your on your way, its so that Emulationstsation recognizes retrogame as a keyboard. All you need to do is open the file using the command 

It could be because of the limited number of connections you can make, often the other people you are downloading from will have very limited upload speed, and a decent upload speed is only created with a lot of connections, sadly the Pi is not capable of handling a lot of connections so sometimes you will get lucky and connect with someone who has a higher upload speed than usual who will allow the Pi to download faster without the need for more connections to be opened. Note: I personally find that limiting connections to something like 20-50 and bandwidth to something like 1mbps prevents connections from timing out and also prevents Ethernet from challenging the USB ports for bandwidth. It may also be due to the fact that most torrent clients download to ram then flush when it's full which may be the slowdown that you are noticing on the Pi. Furthermore when said cache in memory is flushed it must be flushed to the usb drive which you are using, which just so happens to share the same bus as the ethernet port as the Pi does not have a native Ethernet port but instead a usb hub with Ethernet adapter built in. Furthermore torrenting has always been rather slow on the Pi due to the nature of torrenting requiring the Pi to use a checksum included in the torrent file to ensure that you aren't being sent the wrong chunk from someone. You may also be using encrypted torrenting which although prevents man in the middle attacks also has an incredibly detrimental effect on download and upload speeds as a lot more steps are added to the torrenting process such as, key negotiation, the location of a suitable client (one that also wishes to use encryption) and then all packets must then be decrypted at a snails pace. Finally if you are using a Pi with less than a gigabyte of ram I strongly recommend you upgrade as the difference will be noticing everyone as more ram will eleviate some of the need for writing to your sub thus freeing up the usb bus for the Ethernet port. Note: If you are on transmission be sure that you set your preferred download speed on the bottom left and be sure that the turtle has not been selected as selecting the turtle will lead to a default download speed of 50kbps which is what you are describing. 

Setting up a Raspberry Pi as a NAS would be much easier, but.. You could install Deluged and set it to move completed downloads the set that runs a bash script to check the folder for files then uses scp (secure copy) and send it to a ftp server running on your windows box Install Deluge 

The pin number is NOT the physical board number but actually actually uses the BCM number (Broadcom). So if you want pin 13 you can see below that is BCM 27, the documentation says you can use GPIO number as pins but they do not work for me either. Image below is from $URL$ 

Removing your dbus would have removed most of your installed packages, so I think you would be running a very bare system. I would re-burn an image, but I guess you could try an install a desktop xserver back on it, most likely have to many errors though. Install desktop on Raspberry Pi 

Then browse to $URL$ The default password is deluge Then click preferences -> Downloads -> Tick Move Completed to -> MyFolder 

or you could use the Open Source Tool I have developed and host on GitHub Raspberry-Pi-Zero-Wifi-Setup-Tool 

First thing to check is if there is enough power to start the USB HDD, as I believe you can only pull out 250mA through the USB on the RPi3 and this is OK for some HDD but not others. If your HDD is powered successfully then burn a fresh image to it using Win32DiskImager, to see if it is your image causing problems . 

Copy the your .ko file to /lib/modules/4.9.41-v7+/kernel/net/wireless. Create a Blacklist file rtl8xxx-your-old-chipset into /etc/modprobe.d/rtl8xxx-your-old-chipset-blacklist.conf. Run the command depmod –a. 

You could use MQTT and use publisher(server) and subscribers(clients). core-electronics.com.au have a very good tutorial and video there also. On the publisher you could have a Realtime clock and periodically send the time out, then a "play video" command to start at a given time ie 2 seconds away to make sure they all received the command before video starts. 

Not good practice, you should write them all together as functions ect but if your other scripts have not functions ect...then.. 

. But I think your problem is you are either: 1. Running from /home/pi/ which is not a node app root directory, so cd into a node app then run 

Current can not forced, it is drawn by the circuitry. If the Rpi Zero is rated for 150mA, and you have a power supply that is rated 2000mA all that will happen is that the Rpi will only draw 150mA from the supply. Voltage on the other hand will cause damage, and you can force too much through the circuitry by using a power supply that has voltage higher than specified required input which in this case is 5.1v. 

To allow the connection to complete you need to also do the following step to allow a remote device to actually connect with the pairing key 1234 

You can make it discoverable using subprocess in Python without using pybluez. A bluetooth command list is found here 

This is how I setup a webserver on Raspberry Pi running Stretch, but would work for other distros. Apache, PhpMyAdmin and MariaDB 

Make sure that is the IP address for your Raspberry pi, can you ping 192.168.1.100. Have you created a file called "ssh" without extension in /boot of the SD-Card? 

To a different one such as by changing the line above to the following port 2122 After that reboot your Pi and ensure that it works locally, then forward the port that you have just selected such as to your Pi on your routers config page then try to access it from another network connection and see if that works. If it does not then your isp is probably blocking all inbound ports on your network and their won't be much I can do, often a lot of isps will unblock ports for a small processing fee. For me personally it's $7 a month for a static IP with no blocked ports. Note: you should defiantly change the ssh login credentials on your Pi from the default, to prevent someone or a bot from guessing it and taking control of your Pi 

I was able to locate diagrams for both the Pi 3b and the Pi zero from very reputable sources, one being the Pi site itself for the pi3b, which can be found here, the image was taken from this page. Furthermore a diagram for the Pi zero may be found here, which is from element 14 which is a rather reputable source in my opinion, and that image was taken from here. 

Try using a program called `unclutter‘ the purpose of this program is to hide the pointer after the mouse has not moved for a certain period of time. Using it, you can make the pointer appear only when the user touches the screen, and disappear right after it. Just set a very fast time and you should be able to make the cursor seem as if it never appeared. I don't have a Pi right now, so this isn't tested, but if you do have any problems I'll attempt to help. To install it please run the following: 

Theoretically you can, but due to the voltage curve over power dispassion when your say 20% into the battery it won't be 3.7 or 3.8 volts it's likely to be 3.5 which is too low to run the Pi, at which point the Pi will shut down. Furthermore the Pi needs more than the 500ma that the power boost offers and may have stability issues, depending which Pi you have. You may read more about Pi power requirements here 

Now we are going to calculate the number of watts a Pi uses at peak load based on your research. We use 5 volts as that is the USB standard 

Based on the temperatures and CPU usage you shared in the chat, I believe that what you are experiencing is normal as reviving video over the internet and deciding it is very taxing on it. However a CPU cooler isn't exactly a necessity as the Pi will simply slow itself down to prevent it from over heating. But if you want to watch YouTube in a higher quality or have background tasks running while watching YouTube then I would recommend a heat sync and maybe a fan to prevent thermal throttling. 

that you get an error stating that the device is busy. With this information I believe that a process is attempting to write to your sd card in the background which is preventing you from unmounting it and is also quite possibly corrupting your sd card write. If you could please now ensure that it is the correct sd card that you are writing to by removing the sd card and using the command