I suggest visiting the Microsoft Typography site. This claims to provide detailed information on what fonts ship with which products and how to buy addiitonal copies of fonts if needed. For example, this is a link to the Gill Sans fonts shipped in some Microsoft products. If you have fonts that are listed as provided with a product but have not been installed, perhaps because of the installation options selected, you could then discuss with Microsoft what the terms would be for transferring the required fonts from PCs that have the same software installed and have the desired font(s). Their policy on fonts is: 

CPU manufacturers give guidance on the maximum inflow, case, chassis and CPU temperatures that the processor package was designed for. A search for 'thermal management' and thermal specification' with the processor or processor package description may lead to what you want. For example: Intel Pentium 4: $URL$ AMD Athlon 64: AMD Athlon 64 Processor Power and Thermal Data Sheet (PDF, 1.1MB) 

Start the list as usual and select from Formats->Bullet and Numbering->Outline an appropriate style (I often use the all-numeric 1/1.1/1.1.1 style but there is a 1./1./1./ that should provide the effect you are looking for). At the end of the first point (default: 1.) press enter '2.' will be displayed. If you now press tab this will change to '1.1' Complete this point, press enter, '1.2' will be displayed and so on. When the last sub-1 point is done, press enter. Say '1.7' is displayed, press shifttab and this will change to '2'. After a bit it all gets obvious and easy. It works the same way for any of the styles and for multiple levels. 

I'm assuming that your reference to DPC implies this is on a Windows platform. The page documenting Thesycon's DPC Latency Checker Tool $URL$ has the following good advice when the driver responsible for DPC latency spikes has been identified: 

Probably not directly helpful but FWIW ... I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 (and have run 8.10) on a Lenovo 3000 N200 and the sound is fine without loading any packages in this area other than the packages Ubuntu selected for itself. Opening the volume control preferences it is defaulting to HDA Intel (Alsa mixer). Works on speaker and headphones. Even the buttons on the top right of the keyboard for volume up/down/mute work. 

put the passwords into a text file, displayed out of the way on the screen and cut and paste as required. As well as a simple text tool, any software that can provide this functionality could be used, e.g. a clipboard manager (like Glipper under Gnome) or a keyboard macro. Alternatively use a keyboard shortcut to deliver the password when required. where possible, get PDFs from sources that do not require a password to open them for reading. Lobby other suppliers to change their policy. For example, just two from the many suppliers that do not password protect PDFs for reading: a. Safari Books Online provide PDFs that have every page marked with the Safari username but not password locked for reading; b. Packt Publishing changed their policy and now provide PDFs that do not need a password to read. Indeed, if you bought password protected PDFs from them in the past you can download a copy of the unlocked version for free. Again, the files have pages marked with customer details. 

Fireftp add-on for Firefox. Edit Screenshot removed as, although from the fireftp web site and functionally similar, it was not taken on an Ubuntu system and so objected to by some. Apparently Fireftp it is not yet available for Firefox 3.5 so if you have moved your Ubuntu system to that version of Firefox it won't work (as of today). Features include: Secure: SSL/TLS/SFTP support Synchronization: Keep directories in sync while navigating Directory Comparison: Compare directory and subdirectory content International: Available in over 20 languages Character Set Support: UTF8 and just about any other character encoding supported Automatic reconnect and resuming of transfers Search/Filtering Integrity Checks of transfers (XMD5, XSHA1) Export/Import accounts Remote Editing File Hashing: Generate hashes of files (MD5, various SHA's) Drag & Drop File Compression: Using MODE Z Timestamp Synchronization Advanced properties (CHMOD, recursive CHMOD, thumbnails) 

I have an ATEN KVMP switch (similar to this) so that I can switch the keyboard, screen and mouse to one of the physical computers whilst being able to move the headphone connection to the same or a different one. I, too, have USB extension leads from computers that are not on my desktop to provide Type A, Type B and micro USB connectors on the desktop. The headphone lead from the ATEN KVM is an extension lead so that I can easily plug in either the headphones or a lead going to an appropriate input socket on an amplifier to allow easy switching to good speakers rather than headphones when appropriate. A final odd accessory. As I use a USB keyboard and mouse but the BIOS on my main desktop machine does not recognise USB (yes, it is that old), I have a Fujitsu Siemens numeric keypad plugged directly into its keyboard PS2 socket to select boot up options, when needed. Even though my keyboard doesn't have a numeric pad I don't use the numeric keypad for its intended use. 

You can put that into a bash script as part of a for loop and, for safety, copy the files into a directory that is named the same as the resolution (check if it exists and create if not). 

You may be running a firewall that is discarding pings or ICMP (outbound or inbound) There may be a router between the client and the server blocking or throttling pings or ICMP traffic The host you are pinging may be set not to respond to pings or ICMP traffic 

There have been issues (crashes &c) with installations of Dreamweaver when Anti-virus software has been running. There is an Adobe TechNote that goes through all this in detail. Worth a look if you've not gone through it already. 

Some download sites have options, usually selected by the user but perhaps unknowingly (e.g. when it asks 'what is the speed of your connection?', on download volumes for audio/video streaming. With the higher bandwidth available could you, or other users, be using the same streams or other downloads, but at a higher quality/resolution/volume? Could the new Macbook be contributing to the increase? you don't say how long this increased usage has been going on for or whether the Macbook replaced another machine or is additional. Viewing in higher quality than a previous machine (as in 1.), providing additional user-initiated load, 'catching up' on patches and updates or just additional concurrent usage? 

(Taken from their Font Redistribution FAQ) You may also want to look at the Microsoft Typography site referenced above and at your installed fonts to check the versions of fonts in addition to whether you have them. A different version of the same font may have differences in font metrics, character shapes or range of characters (glyphs) provided. This can result, for example, in a file produced one PC being openable without error on a PC with a different version of the same font(s) but there may be subtle (or obvious) changes in typography or layout. Layout changes could even result in text being no longer visible (e.g. because a fixed-size text box has overflowed). 

Take a look at supplier recommendations. Taking two local suppliers I use as examples, for an X60, Crucial recommend a maximum of 2GB as 2 x 1GB but MemoryC recommend 4GB as 2 x 2GB (though, of course, you would only fully benefit from that with an OS that can use that much memory). Results from your local suppliers may differ. You need to make sure you use the exact description of the machine when deciding which components are correct. Remember, too, that to access larger memory amounts, a BIOS upgrade may be needed so check the manufacturer's recommendations on that. Finally, more RAM generates more heat and this can be an issue that affects, at least marginally, the operation and longevity of the machine as well as increasing costs, reducing battery life and increasing heat output. 

Evolution Evolution has an option to select 'plain text' or 'HTML' on each email, as shown in the new mail message window in the Evolution user guide. There is also a configuration option (under 'Edit -> Prefences -> Composer Preferences') to set the default format to HTML. The same location has a setting for default character set. General You might like tor look at the ASCII Ribbon Campaign that, half seriously, campaigns for ASCII attachments rather than HTML. 

Yes I don't run antivirus software on my Linux boxes but that is not the only form of malware. I do apply patches and updates as soon as they are available, especially for security-critical software (e.g. firefox, ssh, gpg). We could debate whether that is a good or a bad approach but the question here is 'should I be concerned?' ... either way we would be debating the risks because we believe there is a threat. Similarly, I only apply software and patches from repositories and sources I have some trust in. Web-borne malware is a serious threat so I do run NoScript, for example, and avoid enabling Java and Flash handlers except on sites where I need these and have some trust. Finally, I check non-text attachments I receive from third parties before forwarding them on to others. In most cases any malware payload would not affect me but it could affect someone I send the file on to. 

Commercial providers can support business cases that do not require a password for reading files. PDFs that do not require a password to open for reading simplify access, allow file contents to be searched and allow file browsers to display the front-cover icon. 

The fonts error is probably a red herring. This message usually comes up because Emacs thinks it should use a font this specification for some of its output. If you need/want to fix it then finding the faulty specification and fixing it is the recommended route (e.g. $URL$ 

Download the media and burn it to DVD or similar medium. This is similar to what you would have if buying it physically, though the question of whether the life of a home-recorded DVD is as long as a commercial pressed DVD would need to be considered. Download the media and store on one or more HDDs. These could be on a media centre, a fileserver, an ordinary PC or just as backups. depending on your requirements. If you don't want the cost and complexity of a fileserver-based solution then a usb flash drive with a couple of movies, music and books on can easliy be moved to the device where it is wanted. Buy the media from a supplier that allows repeated downloads. Download it as 1. or 2. and download again if the copy is lost or fails. Use a subscription service, download or stream as preferred (an example is the subscription service from Magnatune). Store or don't as preferred. Ending the subscription will usually end the ability to download so that needs to be factored in. This includes what may be a different subset, streamed (possibly DRM-protected) media such as radio or TV programmes: the licence for these is only to stream so there is no storage requirement and bandwidth is the ultimate limitation, as it is with storing my own downloaded or created material in the cloud (even where licencing permits this).