But this goes well only for a short time. After couple of minutes it starts to throw ORA-01110 when I connect to the first instance. The data files are not missing. They are in the location in which Oracle reports them missing. 

If the statement would work I would have the sequene name as a string but I guess I would need the object itself to request the nextval. Is a trigger the right way to go or should I look for something else? For Oracle 11g I have implemented this functionality using trigger and sequences. The trigger looked like this for inserts: 

error. Also confusing was that if the pfile was inside the Oracle Directory the command failed saying it cannot access the file. EDIT After I have deleted both instances, rebooted and created both instances again I can currently access them both. When I try to login to the first instance I get the following error: 

I have found the problem which was that the databases started by the Windows service manager were started with a user that appears not to have sufficient permissions. This is confusing since I have selected the default setting while installing to use Oracles virtual user. This virtual user seems not to have write permission to some files of the database. I have changed the user by which the services are started from Oracles virtual user to the Windows "Local System" option. Since that both databases are running seemingly fine. 

The next thing in terms of cost is an OS (machine) and its IP address. You cannot afford a separate system for every TNS name. So crmdb.mydomain.local is not the only name for the IP address; the same IP address would have more names, like financedb.mydomain.local. Your OS admin would decide how to do this best, and how to determine the main hostname of the OS. They have the same problem with many other systems - multiple names referring to one OS - so they should have a solution at hand. The only people who are confused now are DBAs and OS admins, they see multiple hostnames leading to the same IP address. But users don't care about that and are not confused by that. (By the way this approach is coherent with SCAN. ) The next thing in terms of cost is either one of the two: an Oracle instance or "administrative cost of separating schemas out of instance". The tradeoff is for you to decide. 

Don't use bare because without SET UNTIL it doesn't work as you'd expect in some scenarios. I wouldn't say any of these two solutions are inherently safe, both have as many pitfalls as any other Oracle's advanced features, so you need to do some research upfront. 

EDIT The Mirosoft Service Manager reports both inscantec as runngin. Setting ORACLE_SID does not make any difference. After the installation of both instances I can connect via 

I would like to create a trigger before inserts and updates to ignore any value given by these statements and instead use the next value in sequence - as if no value was defined in that statement. I don't want to use since this throws an error. I would rather ignore any value given and use the next possible value. What I am looking for is a way to identify the sequence used for this identity ans use in a before-insert/update trigger. In this article a SQL statement is given to get the name of the sequence that is used for the identity which I maybe could use within the trigger (???) but the statement doesn't work for me: 

The said file does in fact not exist. But such a file does also not exist for the other database. The directory contains a though for both databases. As far as I know oracle uses this pattern when starting the database. If cant find said file it goes on to use . I have created a INITDBNAME.ORA file and added the content: 

Verify here you have had only a single control file and not two or three of them. If you have had more than one control file, then this instruction is not for you. 

This is a full database import which also includes tablespace definitions. Find out from the original Solaris database what are all the target tablespace names and sizes. Pre-create the tablespaces manually using the datafile paths of your choice () before performing the import. You will see which you can ignore. 

In case you specify each block is read once and written two times to backupset copies. The two backupset copies are supposed to be bit-to-bit identical. Both copies have the same backupset key (BS_key) in RMAN. You cannot mix tape and disk copies - either both copies go to or both to . 

Jay, this isn't officially documented, so I'm speaking only from my own experience. In RMAN, the command is synonymous with . Also the command is synonymous with . I'm not sure about ; it might be also a synonym of , although I've never tested the latter. In your scenario, the former would work as expected. In particular, neither or require all the datafiles to come from "a single backup of database" (from a single run of ). Actually, RMAN doesn't even have a concept of "a single backup of database". 

EDIT: I apologize as I first gave you a pseudo-SQL Server solution, but with some additional research learned that SSIS behaves a little differently. I'm linking my source that gives multiple solutions, and for an answer will include the first. It seems that you could add a derived column component that would allow you to add a new column (e.g. from your table using the Type Cast operator DT_STR which will convert the unicode to string. You should then be able to use this derived column in place of the original column in you CSV destination. source Hope that helps! 

Let's say I don't happen to have the ability to create a Stored Procedure, but I have to run the same query on a regular basis. Would I be able to put my query in a .txt document and be able to run it from Powershell by calling it? What syntax would I use for myquery.txt to run? Put another way, what's a way to end-run not being able to use a stored procedure on a query that should be made into one? 

What you are asking is to be able to create a report name dynamically, which is not something that can be programmed, on download, say, from Report Manager. You can (although I've never tested this) possibly do this through a subscription using @ParameterName @ReportName. citation from msdn It's about the best you can do for now, and there's a link on the citation that allows for this feature to be voted up. 

XE does not support Streams, as officially documented. SE and SE1 support Streams but without redo capture. EE and PE (Personal Edition) fully support Streams, and also support Logical Standby. 

Beware the OS authentication is done by client machine, not by the database server. I think that within reasonable pessimism to Oracle tools you could expect that it boils down to this: database server receives a TCP connection from whichever IP address that might pass the network path, and that connection just claims "I promise I've done OS authentication and, trust me, this connection is made on behalf of OPS$JohnSmithCEO." Neither the database client or database server is given OS password for additional OS authentication! And you can't even trust that this connection came from a valid Oracle software. It can be man-in-the-middle in reality. It's worse than telnet. Whatever "Windows-specific" checks are done by Oracle, they seem contrived and you can't really trust they are complete and secure. 

The "device" in RMAN is a misnomer, it should be really called "storage". The "sbt" (synonym of "sbt_tape") is a misnomer again, as it has NOTHING to do with any tapes, it should be simply called "non-rman". This is just an empty placeholder, to be filled with any "plugin"; the plugin is called by Oracle either the "Media Manager library" or SBT_LIBRARY. This plugin allows rman to store and retrieve files through it, so rman only tells that it needs a file handle "xyz" (file is identified by a string handle) and doesn't need to know how the file is delivered, from tape or anything. The plugin is normally a part of an independent backup software, such as IBM TSM or Symantec NetBackup or many others. Oracle provides a simple emulator SBT_LIBRARY=oracle.disksbt for testing. Since you didn't fill that placeholder with any "Media Manager library", you receive an error message as expected.