ShellShock is practically a conjunction of more than one vulnerabilities of bash, and at this moment there is also malaware that exploits this vulnerability, so ShellShock can be an issue that is still open, there is a thread with updates from RedHat about this issues. Redhat recommeds the following: Run command: 

I am not getting an IP in the subnet where the DHCP is working and should serve an IP, I am getting instead only an IP in the subnet (link local address) that is probably given by Windows which runs on the laptop I am using to test this, which makes me think it might be a problem of the network firewall blocking the DHCP Discovery service. And if that is caused by the firewall, which ports I should be opening for DHCP Discovery to work? 

If there is not a gateway on the traced path, only Layer 2 devices, the IP will not be reported. But Cisco has a utility that works on Layer 2. But this utility is dependent on CDP protocol which : 

The file is there and the file is indeed deleted, but in order to see it deleted in explorer, you need to press the F5 button to refresh the screen. Later edit: It seems that this happens only for files This is, how can I reproduce the problem: 

The 2008 instance holds the data which creates the reports and the 2016 instance has SSRS installed. I have to use 2008 as we use Merge Replication for windows mobile devices which is not supported by later SQL servers. I have configured SSRS and the reports can be accessed via the web interface, however when I create a subscription for a report, the email never gets through. Ideally, I want to use Office365 to handle the emails and from what I can see SSRS 2016 supports this OOB, so I configured it according to info I found including editing the config file to set the port to 587, but to no avail. I've looked through various windows logs but cant find any errors to help resolve this issue. I've even setup a local SMTP server to try an relay the messages to Office365 but when checking those logs I don't see any activity. Does anyone have any idea what the problem might be or which logs are best for this, as I've been struggling for days. Thanks. 

I was in the same position and having a rented dedicated server without access to a physical cd drive, i decided to give it a spin. I was running Windows 2008 R2 with all the latest updates etc, I removed all roles and other features I dd not use. I mounted the Windows 2012 R2 ISO and ran the setup. It rebooted once during install at which point I lost my RD session, I could not connect for about 10-15 mins. After this time, I connected and the update had completed. That's not to say it will work for everyone. Make sure you have a backup before proceeding in-case it goes pear shaped. Also not advised for production servers. Just my 2 cents anyway. 

Is there a way for system administrators to better track and debug what happens with files stuck in the print spooler ? 

I am administering a network with many locations and work with multiple providers I checked out with my DNS provider to change the records for one of the IPs, they replied: 

But this has the great problem that many user can stop the script and that means they end up not having all the printers available. Can I connect all the available network printers without using the logonscript or the command line app? 

You can also make a shell script see details here. Explanation for the above command: list all directories, sub-directories, Explanation list all the file and directories recursively ex: 

In our organisation we have around 30 printers an we are currently connecting for the user all the printers using a logon script that calls the command line app con2prt for a series of printers. 

I encountered the following situation: The network I administer was blocked, and this was traced down to a specific rack, after I reseted both switches, everything worked. I supposed it was the core switch so I replaced the core switch. It happened again and this time I reset the secondary switch which practically connects all the stations in that building to the network and it work. The topography simplified is like in the image below. Can this happen, can a faulty secondary switch block an entire network, and how can I detect when there are similar problems and I have two cascaded switches, which one is the culprit? 

I have been trying to configure my Windows server 2008 R2 machine for the last 3 days now just so that mobile clients can access an in-house installation of MS Dynamics CRM 2013 ! After MUCH reading and many fall downs I now know I have to install and setup AD-FS and then ultimately IFD. I have added the AD-FS role from the server manager but could never get this to work with the CRM. I later found out that the AD-FS version that ships with 2008 R2 is 1.0, which apparently is no good. I need 2.0 ! I downloaded and installed AD-FS 2, it seemed to install without problem (this is where the problems start). I open the AD-FS tool and click the link to configure and BOOM, I get an error stating it need .NET Framework 3.5 installed... wtf !?! I know this is already installed on this machine by default, by anyway I check in the features... sure enough, its there. I have ran other tools to check the installation and all seems fine. I am now pulling out may hair after 3 days of this crap. I just cant figure out whats wrong and I only found one result on google which basically just has one follow up to a guys post which asks him to check his .NET Framework installation. I have tried to un-install and install many times, but same problem. I was hoping someone here could help me out of this jam. Thanks guys ! 

Directories need x bit set (for directory that bit is seen as search bit) to open. So I use tree so I can get only the folder set and avoid the nightmare of having all the files set as executables ( the option for tree is ): 

Is this general practice and PTR records can be added only by the ISP companies that manage the IPs, or is just the practice for this DNS provider? 

I knew that I can log with that account and the old password if I just disable the network connection. So I logged in with the network disabled and the old password and it work. If I try to refresh the trust by locking and unlocking this time with the network enabled I get the same: 

you are not vulnerable. The other part of ShellShock check is the CVE-2014-7169 vulnerability check ensures that the system is protected from the file creation issue. To test if your version of Bash is vulnerable to CVE-2014-7169, run the following command: 

Sometimes the other uptime command display a time that is not correct so I use this command to display the 

I have two computers in the same domain that I use, recently I changed the domain password on one of them. When I tried to login with the same account on the other machine I get: