RADIUS is a client/server protocol. Effectively, the client speaks RADIUS protocol to the server to ask if the authentication information provided is accurate. The AP is the client and there is another computer that is the server. Your school was considering changing to using RADIUS either from some other authentication protocol, or from authentication directly on the AP. 

When you created /Users/HMTS01/BACKUP, how did you set its ownership and permissions? You may need to set the mount point's metainfo manually before mounting the filesystem. 

I've had no problem with Tomato. I don't run any services on it, but I don't see any reason you couldn't. There is command-line access; there are startup scripts; there is SMB mounting; there is a flash filesystem. I don't know if you already have a device, but make sure that the software you choose supports the hardware you have or are going to get. 

The private key file is itself encrypted with a passphrase. You need to remove this encryption so that Apache can load it without you typing the passphrase in manually. You can use to do this: 

You at least need port 135 open as well. That said, I don't know that I would suggest putting a Windows machine on the Internet with all of those ports open. Can you at least have the firewall limit those open ports to your local system's IP? 

But you probably want to use a different date format so that it doesn't have spaces and junk in it. Something like: 

I occasionally find myself in a situation where an undermaintained system has an account that's been locked out. The problem is that there are a variety of ways in which an account can be locked out, each with their own method of being unlocked. It's not that the account is being locked improperly, just unexpectedly, but finding the correct lock to reset is difficult. My most recent attack of this problem was on a SUSE system, and it turned out that the password had expired (which wasn't initially known because the login attempts were not through a system that provided that sort of feedback), and then also locked due to failed login attempts. Is there a list somewhere of all of the different possible account locks and how to disable them? I'm intending for actual brokenness, such as home directory access problems, corrupt PAM libraries, etc., to be out of scope for this question. 

Download dd-wrt.v24-18000_NEWD-2_K2.6_mini-WNDR3400.chk Use the Netgear factory software to "Update" to the above download. Boot the router. Breathed sigh of relief when it came up. Configured the Radio and WAN. Downloaded dd-wrt.v24-18946_NEWD-2_K2.6_big-nv64k.bin Updated router to the big version from above. 

Perhaps either the script or the exe isn't visible to the computer executing the policy, for whatever reason. The GPO seems fine. Checked the event log for Policy errors or tried a traced log on? 

If you're on Comcast or one of a few other ISPs, you'll get SMTP blocked completely unless you request it (which usually means going to business class internet). SMTP only works to their list of approved mail servers. I don't know which simply block the port and which have an open but unusable responder like this. 

It's not pretty, but it works. Besides a GP Pref, you can also apply it with a login script. {E8433B72-5842-4d43-8645-BC2C35960837}.check.100 is the built-in Windows Firewall, check.101 and up are additional third-party firewalls. The registry keys in this folder are the ones that get changed when a user clicks "Turn off messages about (whatever)." in the Action Center. 

The proxy server gets the certificate and all SSL configuration, and the Apache server doesn't need any. You can think of the proxy as unwrapping the SSL and forwarding plain HTTP back to the Apache box. (You can forward a new HTTPS session as well, if you're really paranoid about your own network, but then you have to put a cert on the Apache box too. It's better to set up an encrypted tunnel in that case.) You can do everything from the IIS manager, beginning with creating a request and ending with importing the pfx file from the provider. If the provider doesn't issue a pfx, then you'll have to manually combine it all into one file with openssl: 

I notice that one of the ports is connected at 1000Mbps and the others are connected at 100Mbps. Can you verify that this connectivity problem exists between two computers connected at the same speed? I'm thinking that there might be a problem with the built-in switch handling cross-speed connections that would be hidden when dealing with a separate interface that goes through the kernel. 

When accessing an Exchange 2003 server via IMAP, emails that were sent as text/plain (and ones that had no MIME encoding specified at all) get automatically converted to multipart/alternative with the original text/plain body and a text/html body. This is … stupid. It doesn't even bother to specify a monospaced font. The new MIME part starts like this: 

My default email address at work is "William.Faulk@…". People frequently send emails to our other William that are intended for me. You might want to consider a last-name-first approach, since last names are more likely to be unique than first names. You probably want a variety of aliases, too, but for people who are too lazy to read their autocompletes, keying off of last name probably makes more sense. 

I have a Solaris 10 x86_64 system running MySQL 5.5. Under heavy usage times, we're getting very slow responses from the database: slow queries running into minutes that normally return in sub-second times. CPU utilization is in the 60-70% range. Load average regularly gets well into the 20s, infrequently into the 40s, and I've seen it up to the 50s. (Two four-core CPUs with HyperThreading enabled.) It acts like an I/O problem, as if it's waiting on disks to write, but I'm not seeing any indications that there is any actual I/O problem. Average disk wait times are consistently 0, average wait queues are in the 0.2-0.3 range, and disk busy percentages occasionally creep into the 15% area. (All of this as according to sar.) The storage is a zfs zpool of 5 zdev mirrors of two SAS drives. I do not have an intent log device, but I don't see that as being an issue with this workload. What am I missing? 

It's your responsibility as the server to send the full chain, but you've gotten lucky because the intermediates must be some of the ones included in most modern browsers or OSes. Just put SSLCertificateChainFile with the concatenated PEM-encoded certs in your ssl.conf and you'll be OK. You can get those certs either from your SSL provider, or by browsing with a browser that works and saving the certs from the chain yourself. You can include the root or leave it off, it doesn't matter since the client will complain about trust either if it doesn't have it either way. 

Looks like it's because you can't contact the DNS server set at all, and it's trying to use the root hints (which, in my experience, are very unreliable for end-users). Can you ping it? Are you set to bridged mode, with no firewalls getting in the way? 

If you don't have the intermediate chain certificates on your system, you'll have to swap for instead, which the provider always has available. 

There's only one group policy to do this, and it affects the entire action center, not just the firewall notifications, but if that's OK with you, then you should use it. 

I would just have two mail servers, an internal and an external. Have the servers continually append outgoing emails to a file, and every so often rename the file, copy it on a USB key, and drop it in an incoming folder on the other server. This is how many installations perform air gaps in network servers. If it's too important to delay, it can be sent from one of the outside clients. 

There's no chance of running mysql. If there's a way to use it with SQLite, it might actually be feasible. You'll have to put DD-WRT on it, following the instructions on the forum thread for the WNDR3400, recorded here for posterity: