We use PayPal as our payment gateway with the PayFlow Pro service which gets us access to an SDK, their API and other tools that we can use so that our customers never leave our registration application. It's all done in our code. As another poster said, you can also use the Website Payments Pro service, but I have no experience with that service so I can't really comment. 

I've inherited an Exchange server that looks like it has never been cared for: no backups, running out of disk space, huge mail store, huge mailboxes, stores dismounting for being over the store size limit... you name it, I'm dealing with it. I've got this a bit more under control, but we still have the disk space issue. The system itself has room for three more drives, which I have pitched up the chain to management. It's likely to be approved but until then, I still have a problem. My problem is that we have very little disk space left and I need to keep this system running until I can get those drives. I've been forced to turn on circular logging to keep Exchange running, but that will only last so long. I can't do an offline degrag to shrink the size of the mail or public folders stores because both stores have grown too large. Public Folders aren't used very much by anyone, but from what I've been reading, you can't just dismount and delete the Public Folders store because Exchange system data is stored there. Is this true? Can I really not dismount and delete the Public Folders store? It would give us about 30GB of disk space back, which we really need (still not enough to do an offline degrag, but will get us through until those drives get approved, ordered, and installed). I'm open to other suggestions/options, if there are any. The current system is running 3 disks in a RAID 5, then partitioned in Windows with an OS volume and an Exchange volume (ugh). The OS volume has disk space issues of its own, but is manageable. The Exchange volume has about 1GB disk space left, with approximately 125GB being consumed by the Exchange install + data + logs. My plan, while not ideal but still better than what we currently have, is to bring in 3 x 300 GB disks running RAID 5 and get the data stores moved to that volume. That would give me the extra space I need to do an offline defrag of the stores (should I need to) to keep this server running for another year or two until we completely replace it. Until I can get there, however, I need some disk space. So my question again: Can I safely dismount, archive, and delete the Public Folders store? Or will that really take Exchange offline? 

The issue: When an external sender sends an email with an attachment larger than 10MB, Exchange, as configured, does not receive the message. However, the sender of that message does not receive any notifications from his own mail server that the message could not be delivered due to attachment size. However, if an external user tries to send an email to a non-existent user, they do receive a message from their mail server indicating that the user does not exist. Why is that, and is there anything I can do about it? It would be nice if the sender received notification that the attachment file size exceeds our limits and their message was never received... Update The Exchange server has a SpamAssassin box in front of it... could that have something to do with it? Here is one of the last lines from SpamAssassin's logs when searching for my test e-mails: 

I've given a few dozen different 'network monitoring tools' a shot over the last year and quite frankly, all of them fell way short of what I wanted except for one. Part of the problem is that 'network monitoring' has become very convoluted. Most 'network monitoring' tools are trying to be more than just a network monitoring tool, ie. watching servers, applications, complex alerting mechanisms... I didn't like SolarWinds. What I was looking for was a network monitoring tool that can monitor my network devices and report on the traffic moving through their various interfaces: snmp traps, netflow compatibility, e-mail alarms via a threshold, daily notifications, real-time bandwidth monitoring on individual ports - the only tool I found that had everything I wanted is something called PathSolutions. It's a bit pricey, so if you don't have the money to spend, it may not be right for you - but for me it's absolutely invaluable. It's especially useful in a VoIP environment. I use this tool to monitor network switch and router interfaces across our three sites. I have just over 1,000 interfaces being monitored from an old server with no issues. No databases required - this is starting to sound like an ad, so I'm going to leave it at this: for a network monitoring utility, this thing rocks. For our servers, I use OpManager. OpManager claims to be able to do general 'network monitoring', and yes - that is true in a 'down/up' sense only. For network devices, not quite so useful. But the breadth of automation available by being able to call scripts off of monitored event is pretty awesome which is the primary reason I use it to watch our servers. Unfortunately, it's a bit bloated requiring a database back-end. Worth the extra effort though, when compared to the other tools I've played with. Most people seem to really like Nagios. For what it's worth, we gave it a shot. We spent a year hassling with it and were very happy the day our sys admin just 'forgot' to turn it back on. We've moved on since then. I'm not going to say Nagios is terrible. A lot of people have great success with it - it's just that our team didn't quite meld with it so well. 

Situation: I have a few users that want to manage their own distribution groups through their Outlook client. How can I give these users rights to add/remove from these specific Distribution Groups from Outlook? 

I'm not used to doing NAT on Cisco devices, and I'm tasked with bringing in traffic being sent to a public address that is routed to our gateway. I would like to NAT the traffic from our gateway (a Cisco 2901 router running IOS 15.0) to a private address. From what I've read, I think this might work but I have a feeling I'm missing something. 

You may want to give squid a try, if you're not using it already. It's a data-caching application for commonly transferred data. It may not be able to cache Windows Updates, but it should help you save bandwidth, which seems to be your goal. $URL$ 

I would start by making sure the SQL Server services are running. They may have been stopped during installation. Administrative Tools > Services 

I'm having some trouble trying to figure out the technical details of the below design; specifically in the area of the redundant load-balancers. The web servers are running Windows Server 2003 R2 64 and serve .NET applications via IIS. The database servers are running Windows Server 2008 Enterprise 64 in a SQL Server Failover Cluster with SQL Server 2008. There are currently two web servers and two database servers. What I am looking to accomplish: 

My assumption is that Spam Assassin thinks the message is OK and is forwarding it off to Exchange. Update I've verified that Exchange is receiving the message and generating an NDR. However, delivery of NDRs are disabled to prevent Backscatter. Is there something that I can do to get Exchange to send a bounce message to the sending mail server (or verify that message is being sent) so the sending mail server can notify its sender of the bounce? 

Your best bet is to figure out which registry keys and directory locations that the program needs access to, and give your users access to just those areas. You can use a tool, like Process Monitor from Sysinternals for that. Simply log in as the user, start Process Monitor, and run the program and make note of the areas denying access. I would probably use a Security Group in AD, and then give that Security Group access to those system locations. All you would have to do then is add users to that Security Group and they will be able to use that program on that system with their own credentials. 

We are running Exchange 2003 Standard in-house. The Director of Operations has just let two staff members go, and would like e-mail sent to their addresses sent to him. Here is what I have done so far: 

If you're looking to save some money and aren't looking for enterprise-level protection, you can just plug in another disk and use Windows to mirror your current disk. As long as you are keeping regular backups, this will (most of the time) keep you running should a disk fail. If you can afford a third disk and a decent RAID card (3ware, adaptec), RAID 5 would be nice for a web server. Provides more resiliency and greater read speeds. It will write a little slower, so be aware of that if you are hosting your database on the same machine. If you can afford a fourth disk, it would be worth it to have a hot spare ready. Nothing like a disk dying and you rebuilding the array immediately. Same-day recovery is awesome. 

So, given all of the above, is Microsoft NLB the only answer? Or are there better tools available for our situation? Edit 4/21/11 Thanks for the quick feedback. Just to clarify a few points: 

I would suggest you keep backups of just your data: your site files and your database data. Keep those backups off the system. If you get infected or the server gets compromised, you can have your host "initialize" the server (reset to original state), you copy up your data and you are back online with a clean server. I also suggest that you sweep your system and find out how you got infected/compromised in the first place and implement measures to prevent that from happening again. 

A4: Watch out for sql injections, old versions of software: apache, phpmyadmin, mysql - keep those things up to date and always use SFTP or SSH to remote connect to your host. Change your passwords as often as reasonable for your work-style for all systems; database users, root, ssh accounts... etc. 

I'm not entirely positive this will work - more just theory, but couldn't you use the GPO Security Filtering for this? The GPO is linked to the Users OU, and the Security Filtering by default applies to all Authenticated Users. So any Authenticated User within the Users OU will get this GPO applied to them. To extend the Security Filtering a bit further, you could create a security group (let's call it Group Alpha) for all the computers that you want the policy to apply to and make all of your, as you put it, regular systems members of Group Alpha, with the exception of these two "special" systems. Then modify your GPO by adding Group Alpha to the Security Filter. Again, just a thought - but in theory, that would cause your GPO to only apply to Authenticated Users within the Users OU using computers that are members of Group Alpha. Of course, I could be completely misinterpreting how the Security Filter works, so you'll have to experiment. :-) And even if it does work, you'll have to make sure all your systems that you want this policy apply to are members of Group Alpha going forward. Here's an alternative suggestion, since the above didn't work: Is it possible to apply this GPO to the computers itself? If so, you could give Evan's suggestion a try and put the computers that you want exempted from the redirection into their own OU, and blocking inheritance on that OU. A little funky, but might work. 

A3: If you trust your co-workers, there is no reason why you couldn't share a single ssh/sftp account. I do suggest that you disable FTP completely, if you can or at the very least disable FTP for that user. Since your site has already been compromised, also make sure all your passwords are changed. All of them: mysql, apache, root, and any other users or accounts. 

Is it possible to configure a Windows Server 2000 OS to synchronize it's clock to a domain controller if it's not on the domain? If so, how would I go about doing that? Just to be clear: 

This is a pure-Microsoft shop; so unfortunately the standard Linux tools are not available to us. What I have tried: 

I hosted with TierraNet many years ago. They were a great company then, and were very responsive to my requests for help. I haven't used any of their services in a few years, however, so I am not sure if anything has changed. I currently host with Media Temple, but they don't register .me. GoDaddy and Network Solutions are two other big names that a lot of my clients use and have success with - they are both on the domain.me list of registrars. Personally, I can't stand trying to navigate the GoDaddy website - but to each their own. 

Windows XP has the ability to run an SMTP server via IIS. This article may help in getting you setup. 

WinSSHD Free for personal, non-commercial use. Although honestly, it's not expensive to license. I run it on a number of my servers. 

First, I'm making some assumptions, so please excuse me if I missed the point of your question. I'm assuming that you are providing some web hosting services for some of your clients, and now they are asking for control over the web host, as opposed to you doing all the work for them. Two words: virtual machine. Don't give them access to your host web server. Let them have full control of a VM instance - if they muck it up, your more valuable host is not harmed or tampered with - only their sites & services. Then you can give them administrative control over the instance and not have to worry about it (except for backups of their initial instance - but that depends on your contract with your clients). They'll also feel more special when you give them an administrator account. :-) I highly recommend this path if it is at all possible for you. If that's not an option and you're OK with sharing your host system with your clients, I would then suggest partitioning one of your disk arrays such that your client has their own volume to host their sites and data from. You could create a base directory for them within your own , but then you have to muck around with NTFS permissions and inheritance, which, depending upon the complexity of your file system, could get ugly. If it's an option, it's much simpler to create a new volume/partition - with their own volume to use, security will be much, much simpler as you could give them full control over the volume, and you can assign disk space limitations as well so they can't fill up your disks and bring your system to a halt. I think you're on the right track with the separate application pools and separate sites. You may want to look at this article on the delegation of rights to manage sites and applications (iis7). It'll get more complicated if they start using databases - however, if all they want to do is host some static content, the above should keep them from running amok. 

This may be because they did not log out the prior night. Nevertheless, this is a bit too much and is very counter-productive for our users. Here is a bit about our environment: Our users are running and are part of an . WSUS is being applied via . Here is a snapshot of the GPO that is enforcing the WSUS rules: