Just turn NAT off and the firewall (or open needed ports) on the remote APs, add routes to the remote subnets pointing to the outside interface address of the Router/AP at the remote locations. Bridging will work but will come with a lot more configuration and opens up more problems from in operation. DHCP over WAN will cause local resources at the remote locations to become unavailable if the main site or the connection goes down. Also DHCP over a wireless WAN link can lead to problems if that link is ever saturated or if it get's affected by weather conditions. Also you'll have to think about where your gateway is going to be. Also those links will now have all layer 2 traffic on it when it wouldn't need to be. I don't know the bandwidth of them or current utilization but this could issues that are easily avoided. HTH, Let me know if this makes sense or you need clarification. 

Now you can simply type to check for this IP or for checking all IPs in VLAN 801, for example. Do similarly for and you're faster in searching and troubleshooting. Further tipps: 

It can be good practice, to leave unused switchports shutdown. So it's easy to identify them using or the like. And you don't run into problems if you use a switchport which was definitly shut off before. 

Since the other requirements were already met, the connection should be successful. Since I cannot add images to comments to the question above, here a screenshot about mass bumping comment spam starting with one to this question and answer. That's a screenshot of moderator activity, no action by me. 

Improperly configured EtherChannel (port-channel) interfaces would be disabled automatically, to prevent problems such as loops. First of all, having the same configuration on each side would be the safest. Here's a checklist: 

I can recommend Cisco WAAS (Wide Area Application Services), specificall WAVE (Wide Area Virtualization Engine). We use it for 

It sounds like even though that's your block assigned to use the ISP hasn't segmented it out so the ARP broadcasts are working improperly to resolve, this is usually done by smaller ISP in order to conserve IP space. If they were to give an actual /30 to every customer they would be losing 3/4 of the IP addresses they have to allocate (their router's IP, network address, broadcast address). I would confirm that with them, but I've seen it before. Otherwise if that's not the case you can sterilize your configuration and post it so unique problems can be dissected. 

To have the router forward dhcp packets you'll need to configure dhcp-relay on each of the router's (sub-?)interfaces that aren't local to the DHCP server. 

Somehow STP got enabled on those two, which is strange because it's disabled by default... To resolve, whether you configured this or not do one of these: Disable spanning-tree on the bridge group ( bridge-group # spanning-disable), turn off BPDUGuard on these ports, also since technically an AP is a switch or make sure the 'bridge protocol ieee' isn't on the bridge group of the 2 as well. 

Unfortunately the ASA doesn't show a good explanation in the error message. It's required to create an RSA key on the ASA, either via console or command line in the ASDM, executing the command , for example with highest possible modulus size: 

To connect two Catalyst switch stacks, I use EtherChannel, i.e. I aggregate several ports on each switch to get more bandwidth and higher availability than with just a single port. However, the link doesn't work yet. What could cause the problem? 

Since you are temporarily able to ping the server, VPN and ACLs should be fine. I recommend to verify: 

If you made an ether channel / port channel, don't worry, the traffic will go over the remaining fiber. Otherwise you could consider to make a channel. To be on the safe side, run several times for interfaces to both fibers on one switch and watch the counters. The one which doesn't change at all, while the other one does, should be safer to pull. 

You can either choose to turn on ICS or do the following: Go to Start and search on cmd or command. Right click on either cmd or command then select Run as administrator. At the command prompt type regedit. Navigate to the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\ Services\Tcpip\Parameters\IPEnableRouter setting, right click and select Modify 

Define the local group for the secondary AAA method for authorization, that way if the servers are down it'll use the local priv level for the user account (make sure it's set to 15 for full access) and continue from there. 

There are several in different regions of the world, see link above for map There are 12 companies that operate them, they are funded by whatever their primary business is There are 13 root DNS servers, there is therefore redundancy The root servers aren't the ones that generally handle requests, they are primarily used for spreading DNS information so if I register XYZ.com and point is to my IP address, my provider will send it to the root server for it to be propagated. The root servers are surely load-balanced for the sheer volume of queries, I'm not sure on that exact number (approximate volume can be found here: $URL$ that being said DNS is extremely light weight and connection-less (UDP), a high volume application provider like twitter or facebook has much more powerful systems behind it. 

On a large Cisco Catalyst switch stack, almost all switchports are patched. I need to identify the ports, which are not in use, for connecting further devices. Following switchports, cabling, patch fields and sockets to possible end devices is laborious and even then there could be temporarily used sockets. Looking at the activity of port LEDs is not reliable, since a user device can be shut off. What's the easiest way to detect all unused switchports via IOS commands? 

on one side. The following traffic will cause the IPSEC tunnel to be reestablished. You can do it on your side, entering the remote IP. Or login to the remote site, but possibly you have to do it outside the VPN, so using a different interface, for example using the public IP instead of the IP to which you connect through the tunnel. There will be a short VPN outage while reestablishing the tunnel. After entering that command, ensure that the tunnel is up again, such as doing a ping through it. 

The active/active cluster allows you to split traffic into groups so the A node handles traffic for some networks while the B node handles traffic for the others, in the event of a failover the stable unit will handle traffic for both A&B traffic groups (assigned on a per context basis). Active/Standby cluster handle all traffic on a single node while the other is brought into use only in the event of a failure. This is generally used when you're going to have more traffic than a single node can handle, if one of the units fails, instead of stopping all traffic destined to the failed ASA it will run in a degraded state until it is replaced. So essentially you're stretching you're hardware and actually utilizing it taking the risk of degradation if there's a failure instead of paying for a standby unit that essentially never sees any traffic pass through. Edit: Forgot to clarify active/active is only available for multi-context mode since it would serve no purpose otherwise since you couldn't create the groups 

I checked the log via the ASDM, which confirmed that there's a connection, but ending with an error message: 

over satellite connections (VSAT) for cruise ships, with latency between 600 ms and 800 ms, depending on satellite and earth station (possible additional transatlantic latency). One central manager and a policy manage a network of a dozen appliances. RDP is much more responsive thanks to TCP optimizing, furthermore web applications and file replication save much bandwidth. There's a virtual version vWAAS, which we plan to install soon. I know iDirect satellite modems provide a very good TCP optimization, if you would be able to use them. 

I know we can use auto-completion (tab key) and abbreviated commands (such as ) to speed up typing. However, I'm still not satisfied with typing crypting chains such as for . Can I define shortcuts for often used command sequences, and how? 

in global configuration mode. The default modulus would be 1024. With the ASDM it can also be done in the configuration menu, device management, identity certificates, add, new: 

So before the explanation you could configure a separate OSPF area (or possibly the second ospf process) that is purely for the DMVPN, that way the hub is the DR for that OSPF instance, you can initially make the cost higher to go over the DMVPN than adjust the cost when you're ready to cutover. Another solution could be to run EIGRP over the DMVPN instead since it's all Cisco equipment you don't really have to worry about interoperability, but seeing how you already run OSPF in your LAN you're probably much more comfortable and experienced with it. The only other option (I'm aware of at least) would be to a dual hub topology which may break some things since you you already have L2L tunnels to each site on one of the hubs, I've never had to attempt to configure this in tandem though so I'm unsure what the result would be. You may want to do this after the fact though anyways in order to have some redundancy should the DR go down. The reason that this needs to be configured this way is because the hub is what creates the NHRP mappings in between all the sites, with the nhrp multicast map each site sends it's updates to the hub and the hub then forwards it onto all the other spokes. The spokes learn of the routes in the NHRP 'cloud' but since the DR isn't part of that topology it has no way of sending updates through NHRP since the BDR doesn't send out updates until it becomes the DR, with no way to forward the updates there is no way to propagate the information needed for the spoke-to-spoke tunnels. Furthermore the spoke routers cannot form an adjacency with the DR making it since as defined in the RFC 2328 'On broadcast and NBMA networks, all routers become adjacent to both the designated router and the backup designated router' Reference Sec. 10.4 Let me know if this helps or if you have any more questions! 

We use Cisco WAAS appliances for WAN optimization. With increasing traffic, we noticed that the connection limit was frequently reached. In case of our WAVE-574-K9 with 3 GB RAM, there was a limit of 750 connections. So we decided to upgrade the RAM, since it's said that this will raise the supported number of connections. No problem to get 3rd party memory, since it's an OEM version of a Hewlett-Packard Proliant server. After I installed 2x2 GB RAM modules, removing one 1 GB module. However, the connection limit stays the same, as I can see in the WAAS central manager monitoring. How can I get more connections? 

After adding RAM, it's necessary to repartition the disks for resetting the space allocation for the data redundancy elimination: 

is one of the many IOS command modes. If you need it in different modes, you have to call it for each one - type to get a long list of modes. An example for checking for a dhcp snooped IP, type in global conf mode 

Then on the Sophos box NAT your protected subnets to the 192.168.26.50 address when destined to the 192.168.71.0/24 network. Let me know if you have any issues with that or if you need more help. 

Are you talking about layer 3 traffic for vlan interfaces that can be seen with 'show interfaces vlan.### extensive', if your trying to find it per vlan in total including layer 2 traffic that's not a capability of the device. The only ways to find the layer 2 traffic rates would be to write a script gathering the interfaces that are in a specific vlan, parse the output for rates and then add them together or in a monitoring application create a view that has the all the interfaces in a vlan and show you the throughput of them, or with SFLOW you could have the device send you the stats and again parse the data somehow to add them together, but this again would mainly layer 3 data (it'll show you inter-vlan communication rates as well though at least).