With these goals in mind, network architects can clearly identify which applications are relevant to their business. Conversely, this experience will also make it apparent, which applications are not relevant towards achieving business objectives. Such applications could be consumer-oriented and/or entertainment-oriented applications. In the end it is all up to you. The solution I wanted to make this as easy and configuration free as possible. With that in mind combined with the fact, that QoS should always be processed in hardware, i was recommended to make use of the Auto-QoS feature in Cisco by the CCIE i hired. So instead of marking traffic at the access level, the marking can be made by the end users or servers themselves. Auto-QoS then provides the correct classes for transportation of the traffic throughout the network. This enabled me to decide what applications or services which should be prioritized or de-prioritized via active directory group policies. For starters i wanted to make it simpel. This meant prioritizing VoIP and Video applications, which is already predefined in Auto-QoS when you are using Cisco IP devices/TelePresence/Cameras etc., which we do. Topology overview We make use of the following access/core equipment. 

The eldest route below is from ASN 123 causing the ASN group to be listed at the bottom of the output. 

There are a few variables you may want to consider, (both software and hardware) namely the number of routes, routing protocol adjacency limits, and memory. There is very little documentation about the hard/soft limit, but it appears that the MX platform can support a maximum of 8,000 VPLS routing instances. Your actual mileage will likely vary. Read more... 

Ensuring the new VPN peer(s) have compatible IKE phase I and phase II configurations, reflexive ACLs, tunnel-group configuration for the new peer addresses and a roll-back plan may help with making this change. ASA 8.3 L2L VPN Configuration Reference Example Output: The following example shows changing an ASA's remote peer IP address from 2.2.2.2 to 4.4.4.4. 

This OID shows a depricated, but it should work on the platforms that you've listed in your comment to @Raul D. Additional required MIB files: CISCO-QOS-PIB-MIB.txt CISCO-SMI.txt CISCO-TC.txt CISCO-VTP-MIB.txt Example using snmpwalk and bash on a C3560: 

Assuming there's an 802.1q trunk between the routers and the correct VLANs have been created as layer 2 etc. Then HSRP uses the standby ip to identify the neighbor via the interface or SVI. You can have "unlimited" HSRP threads in the same HSRP group, but please mind, that there can be a restriction in the TCAM as to how many the network device can actually handle in the same group. Routers that run HSRP (version 1) communicate HSRP information between each other through HSRP hello packets. These packets are sent to the destination IP multicast address 224.0.0.2 on User Datagram Protocol (UDP) port 1985. IP multicast address 224.0.0.2 is a reserved multicast address that is used to communicate to all routers. The active router sources hello packets from its configured IP address and the HSRP virtual MAC address. The standby router sources hellos from its configured IP address and the burned-in MAC address (BIA). This use of source addressing is necessary so that HSRP routers can correctly identify each other. In most cases, when you configure routers to be part of an HSRP group, the routers listen for the HSRP MAC address for that group as well as their own BIA. The only exception to this behavior is for Cisco 2500, 4000, and 4500 routers. These routers have Ethernet hardware that only recognizes a single MAC address. Therefore, these routers use the HSRP MAC address when they serve as the active router. The routers use their BIA when they serve as the standby router. HSRPv2 - Version 2 of the HSRP has these features: 

To summarize my comments: The benefit of using CBWFQ (class based weighted fair queuing) with the statement in the queue (your second example): 

Simply put, filters the length of TCP segment data in bytes, while (or in newer versions of Wireshark) filters for the actual data (sequence of bytes) within the TCP segment data. Example: 

Unicast EIGRP Or, instead of using the keyword with your static statements to avoid encapsulation failures, you can specify EIGRP unicast neighbors under EIGRP process 100 and your adjacency should form. 

Without the statement, EIGRP messages sent to the multicast address 224.0.0.10 will fail to be encapsulated. 

If deterministic MED is not enabled, then prefixes are listed in chronological order, regardless of originating AS, from youngest to oldest (top to bottom). 

If deterministic MED is enabled, the prefixes are grouped by ASN. The prefixes are still listed in chronological order from youngest to oldest within their respective ASN group and the ASN group order is displayed from youngest to oldest with the eldest prefix of each group being compared. 

Due to big changes in the new NX-OS version 7 there is only a few upgrade possibilities. From Cisco release note whitepapers: You can perform an In-Service Software Upgrade (ISSU) from the following release to Cisco NX-OS Release 7.0(3)I7(1): 

No i would not recommend using multimode with singlemode cabling and vice versa. MM to singlemode cabling is probably the worst and might not even work, but SM to multimode cabling might give you a short range because it lets out a lot of light at the edges. Instead i would use 10GBASE-LRM, (long reach multi-mode) originally specified in IEEE 802.3aq is a port type for multi-mode fiber and uses 1310 nm lasers. It allows distances up to 220 metres (720 ft) on FDDI-grade multi-mode fiber and the same 220m maximum reach on OM1, OM2 and OM3 fiber types. Most 10GBASE-LRM transceivers also allow distances up to 300 metres (980 ft) on standard single-mode fiber (SMF, G.652), however this is not part of the IEEE or MSA specification. 

There are a few ways to accomplish a back-to-back frame-relay connection. A quick search returns the following options: 

Finally you don't need to include the syntax when performing hybrid switching. EIGRP Your matching(required) static statements may include the statement in order for EIGRP to establish a neighbor adjacency. 

Interfaces/IP Addressing: If you're looking to poll a device's IP address, subnet mask and corresponding interface you can use the following OIDs from the IP-MIB and IF-MIB MIBs: 

Expect may be a good candidate to consider for the job. Below is an example template I've put together that is commented out for you to play with. It will log into a WLC, grab the running configuration and append it to a file of your choice. The example file name and location is You'll need to modify the file name and location to a file of your choice (with adequate permissions) as well as the username, password and IP address of your WLC. Finally you can edit your crontab to execute the backup script using a desired interval. Crontab example: 

You need to: Remove the current configuration; in config mode for both switches, remove the provisioning config, on master: 

Any routable traffic will be capped. The router will even shut down processors to limit the throughput. Also explained in this video: $URL$ (Fast forward to 11:55 for info on shaper limitations) 

Access-Lists Configurations The following access lists are made solely based on, what most organizations use. I have, of course, looked throughout the internet and asked developers, System administrators and some users about what their perspective is. The example is also based on Cisco's Quality of Service for VoIP whitepaper. Source for whitepaper: $URL$ Remember that the list is based on my needs. You can add or delete whatever you like. There's a no statement removing the ACL before adding. This is to make it easier to edit/delete new rows in the ACL when copy/pasting. All ACL's have a remark to explain what it's used for. 

If you're just looking for interface output queue drops, you can use the cportQosDropPkts OID (part of CISCO-PORT-QOS-MIB). 

I've been digging through the Google machine, forums and the Cisco SNMP Object Navigator to no avail. 

The order of received prefixes listed by the or command varies depending on your BGP configuration. Consider the following topology. The BGP speaker is aggregating eBGP neighborships for BGP ASN 888. ASN 123, 1581 and 1771 are all originating the same network prefixes in order to demonstrate the behavior of the output. 

In your example, issuing will append to your existing peer list for 's sequence number 10. The peer list can hold up to ten addresses. 

Your configuration is closer to hybrid switching, however, you're missing a few key elements. Frame-Relay Either R1 or R2 will need to have frame-relay switching enabled to act as the frame-relay switch. 

My goal is to write a service check that pulls the status of a Cisco track list that is performing a . I have a screen scraper in place currently, but that is really not ideal in terms of scaling this type of service check. The track object below simply pulls out the tracked static route if and are both unreachable, allowing a BGP learned default route to be installed, that is otherwise in RIB-failure status. Configuration Example: 

Setting up storm-control on your switch will allow the switch to enable a filter if a broadcast storm occurs on a user access port. It will write in the log, that the filter has been applied and only remove it if it falls below the configured falling threshold. Use the following command to enable it on an interface: 

A PPPoE session is always initiated by the PPPoE client. It will attempt to re-establish the connection if the session has a time-out or is disconnected. the following four steps occure during the Discovery stage: The client broadcasts a PPPoE Active Discovery Initiation (PADI) packet. If an access concentrator receives a PADI that it can serve, it replies by sending a PPPoE Active Discovery Offer (PADO) packet to the client. Because the PADI was broadcast, the host may receive more than one PADO packet. The host looks through the PADO packets it receives and chooses one. The choice can be based on the access concentrator name or on the services offered. The host then sends a single PPPoE Active Discovery Request (PADR) packet to the access concentrator that it has chosen. The access concentrator responds to the PADR by sending a PPPoE Active Discovery Session-confirmation (PADS) packet. At this point a virtual access interface is created that will then negotiate PPP, and the PPPoE session will run on this virtual access. There is another packet type which can be sent to indicate that the PPPoE session has been terminated. Either the Client or the Access Concentrator can send the PPPoE Active Discovery Terminate (PADT) packet at any time after the session is established. When a PADT packet is received, no further PPP traffic is allowed to be sent using that session. A PPP peer should use the PPP protocol itself to bring down a PPPoE session, but the PADT may be used when PPP can not be used. SNT after PADI just means Ethernet is admin shutdown. 

SW2's hard coded priority for VLAN 5 is set to default (same effect as negating the hard coded priority). 

The newly designated frame switch's Serial0/0 interface needs to be changed to the frame-relay interface type dce in order to provide LMI. 

For example, if you had five Cisco ISE nodes in a distributed deployment between two datacenters, one license would need to be applied to the primary admin node and all registered devices will operate under that license. If you had two standalone Cisco ISE nodes that were deployed completely separate from each other, each primary/standalone node would require a license before the 90-day Evaluation license expires. 

After your BGP table has sorted with deterministic MED enabled, removing deterministic MED will not return your BGP table to standard formatting until routes are removed/cleared and relearned. 

Yes, the switchports will form a trunk as does not disable DTP. A switchport configured with will also negotiate as a trunk if the connected switchport is configured with . 

The LAN_ENTERPRISE_SERVICES_PKG license has nothing to do with HSRP. LAN enterprise covers: OSPF, BGP, IS-IS, PIM, SSM, MSDP, Policy based routing, GRE tunneling, EIGRP, VRF route leaking, VXLAN and BGP eVPN. HSRP requires no license. Any feature not included in a license package is bundled with the nx-os image and is provided at no extra charge. To activate HSRP simply use: 

Converting comment to answer. Ethernet1/47 was missing . The Nexus 3000 does not need an encapsulation command as it always encapsulates traffic on trunk ports. 

Check the QoS calculator in this post. You can put in any value or marking you want. Default class will set any traffic not matched. Adding the policy to an interface. Besides the service policy i have added the criterias from AutoQoS on the buffers. Again to keep the design as streamlined as possible. We also need to trust dscp. Example: