The only other options I can think of 1) create a local user with the same user name and password on each machine 2) Grant permissions on the folder (first try granting the user, if that doesn't work, try users or authenticated users). The right way is to have a trust like it's mentioned although is more involved. 

The permissions are based on the IUSR (anonymous by default) or the application pool identity. The best tool to help determine if there are permission issues is using process monitor by sysinternals. Auditing will tell you right away if there are denies. If so, adjust folder security to meet your requirements. $URL$ 

If you know the sub domains, then I'd have a different site (call it site 2) pointing to app1, put the certain domains as host-headers with the same ip address as the other unknown on a separate site that has ip address bindings (call it site 1). When you want to update code for site 2, update the folder location to app2 on site2 with the host-headers. If you have multiple servers, I would take one out of load, update to your needs, put in load and continue with other boxes. Hope that helps. 

The IUSR account is a new account with w2k8. By default that is the user account for anonymous. I recommend setting the anonymous to inherit from application pool identity. Then you can grant permissions on the ApplicationPoolIdentity I_AppPoolName account $URL$ Either way is fine depending on your needs. 

Good question :) You'd need a decent box to handle 10k requests per sec, in the IIS architecture to handle this type of load, you'd want a web-farm of boxes. http.sys > Process Activation Service > w3wp is the path a request takes. Each app pool has queues to process requests at a time. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ IIS 8 has NUMA support, this helps with scaling. $URL$ There are other factors, which type of content and application. :) 

Are these local accounts or domain accounts? If these are local accounts, they can't be moved. Are these IIS or windows users? You can review the applicationHost.config (make a backup copy first) and see what configuration is stored in there. I asked a question about moving IIS manager users to another machine, a MS team member mentioned this. We need a bit more information. As far as moving the configuration over. You could try copying the sites configuration specific to the FTP site by copying and pasting the particular configuration. This involves the XML so it's not very straight forward, but is an option. $URL$ 

For this you would need to do your own research we cannot even come to imaging your environment. What is it you’re looking for? Do you think going to the cloud is going to give your more DR/Performance/Capacity? If your looking for the above your Probbly just going there because it’s a buzz word. Without thinking about it you will not get the redundancy etc. For this you would need someone on site to look at your environment and needs so hire a consultant. You mention you have skills on site in VMware? Why put things in the cloud then? 

This has to be rectified very soon! Those spade connectors are not designed for the amperage that could potently be drawn should all of the connected devices require full load. Also the earth will not be sufficient should there be an issue. Please please please plan urgent downtime NOW! Isolate the power to the PDU and replace with the correct cable. This is a huge safety issue and needs sorting, sod downtime. The cost of a law suit will be more. 

In the VSphere client click on the hardware status tab. You can see all the insight information. Also you can configure alarms via VCenter for status info off these. Also if you go into Configuration --> Power Management and click on properties you can set the iLO details for power management. 

The Soloution as in my Quesion as to reg key \HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIS\ParametersSystem. But this needed a full reboot of the server not just a restart of the Info stor as per the MS artical. 

Ultra320 is a SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) technology. Most motherboards now have SATA or Serial AT Attachment. SCSI and SATA aren’t compliable. You could buy an add in SCSI card but if you are building a new PC it would probably be cheaper and better for upgrades etc to use a SATA drive. AS most motherboards now only support PCI Express and most older SCSI cards are PCI. 

Yes and no. You can increase the thresholds before SOIC will be active or other wise you will need to disable it. I recently had the pleasure of meeting Duncan Epping (Tech architect at VMware for SOIC). He has an excellent blog post on SOIC here and there is a known KB about this here I would have a read of these and this should give you the information to be able to decide if you should or shouldn’t disable SOIC. An Extract from the KB shows the No part of my Yes and No. 

Can you look in the iis logs and see what the sub-status code is on the 401. Here is a list of codes posted by MS $URL$ The HTTP status code in IIS 7.0, IIS 7.5, and IIS 8.0 $URL$ you could also use failed request tracing to see what is happening. $URL$ 

You could use process explorer by sysinternals to see what files are locking the process. Also, have you checked if your anti-virus is locking it? 

We need a bit more information. Things to check. Is this site a asp.net or classic asp? Classic asp is harder to troubleshoot. 1) Is the application recording any errors? 2) What does the cpu and memory look like during this time? 3) Do you have any long running pages? Log parser can help with this $URL$ 4) I'd start collecting some perfmon if you have access to the server. If not, have you engaged your hosting provider? Let the perf counters run, start with basics web service, cpu, memory, logical / physical disk. 5) I would put or verify the troublesome site in it's own application pool. $URL$ 6) is a bot hitting your site? The iis logs will provide some options there. 7) Are we talking hundreds or thousands of users on the server? Key counters to look for is requests / per sec, concurrent connections, good article $URL$ 

Sounds like webgardens (one app pool spawning additional processes). I'd suggest trying to not use web gardens if they are being used. Additionally, if you use SCOM 2012 sp1, I'd suggest deploying APM (application performance monitor) and push a management pack to monitor what's going on. APM doesn't require any code changes and can get down to the function level. The only other option is to use IIS Debug Diag to $URL$ 

How are you requesting the certificate? Using Inet Mgr or typing MMC, adding certificates applet, then requesting the CSR? 

By default all website folders should only need 'read' unless you adjusted the perms. I'd use NTFS permissions to lockdown to certain folders. I wouldn't recommend having individual files in different locations. I'd lockdown by folder. 

This can't be controlled as far as I know. First time i've seen this type of question. There is a range of ports Windows uses for dynamic allocation, which is the range you are seeing. You can control dynamic ports but it requires having control of both the client and server to limit the number of dynamic ports. For an internet facing site, this is not fesible. 

Logwatch has been working perfectly until now. I read a tutorial that you shouldnt edit the config in the default place /usr/share/logwatch Instead you should move it to /etc/logwatch So i did that and now i get this error 

Im running Linux localhost 3.2.0-1-amd64 #1 SMP Tue Jan 24 05:01:45 UTC 2012 x86_64 GNU/Linux Debian 6 

I am trying to install config server firewall however when i follow the tutorial and run install.sh i get the following error. Can anyone help? 

I currently run suPHP and have just installed php5-suhosin. Can I run them both together and if so where do I configure suhosin? As usually it is in the php5 ini file but suphp doesnt use that i dont think. 

Grsecurity or SELinux are good in helping to prevent 0 day attacks by hardening the kernel. Quote from website "Only grsecurity provides protection against zero-day and other advanced threats that buys administrators valuable time while vulnerability fixes make their way out to distributions and production testing. " 

I have just installed and configured CSF and I am getting 100s of spam emails containing this message. 

I am configuring Config Server Firewall and here is the default config for ICMP. I have read on the internet that disabling or limiting ICMP can cause huge headaches on your server. However I have also read it can help prevent some times of DDOS. Do you think i should rate limit and if yes at what rate? 

Nmap $URL$ . You can scan for open ports with nmap -sV 192.168.2.1 Where 192.168.2.1 is your router IP. -sV will find the version of the service running on each port "Nmap ("Network Mapper") is a free and open source (license) utility for network discovery and security auditing. Many systems and network administrators also find it useful for tasks such as network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime. Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel ways to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (application name and version) those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and OS versions) they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other characteristics. It was designed to rapidly scan large networks, but works fine against single hosts. Nmap runs on all major computer operating systems, and official binary packages are available for Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X. In addition to the classic command-line Nmap executable, the Nmap suite includes an advanced GUI and results viewer (Zenmap), a flexible data transfer, redirection, and debugging tool (Ncat), a utility for comparing scan results (Ndiff), and a packet generation and response analysis tool (Nping). " 

ARR is your answer here. Look for articles by Scott Forsyth on handling ARR. He has a IT pro series with some covering ARR. $URL$ 

by default in IIS 7.5, the applicationpoolidentity (aka i_AppPoolName) is used. I would NOT grant write perms and only grant on the folder(s) needed to support your app. Network service was the default account in IIS 6 and wasn't the best account. MS made a change in 7.x. 'note the default app pool name should be changed to whatever you have. ICACLS C:\inetpub\wwwroot /grant "IIS AppPool\DefaultAppPool":(M) You can do this from the GUI in r2/iis 7.5 The other option is to grant the IIS_IUSRS group modify, the app pool command line above is the most secure. I just wouldn't grant modify on all folders. Personally, I use the IIS_IUSRS perms architecture as my servers are not shared hosting servers. 

I would consult the vendors website for this type of question. It appears to have an active and well documented @ $URL$ Redmine 2.1.2. 

An app pool recycle should be sufficient per site basis. These are independent processes. Too often articles and processes promote using iisreset. Is stopping / starting the app pool for the one site an option? Is this a single server solution and are you trying to minimze downtime for the site? There is an option to Disable recycling on configuration changes. Then you can manually recycle. When the problem happens, what is listed in the applicationHost.config? 

Might seem like a basic question, but is ASP.NET installed? Do basic ASP.NET pages work, what you are describing doesn't seem like an IIS issue as much as configuration. 

I looked on the vendors website. $URL$ Are you hosting within your own windows service? I found on their workarounds page on regarding using certificates. $URL$ 

logparser has the ability to insert into syslog type logparser -h -o:syslog Wrap into a batch file or powershell script. That is one option. Examples: Send error entries in the IIS log to a SYSLOG server: 

first enable sql remote connections $URL$ second open windows fw if you are using it on port 1433 (or whatever port you configured) for sql. 1433 is the default. 

Try a hosts file entry remotely on a client and see if you things work. Once that is all set, you'll just need the dns A record as mentioned in the previous post. This is something I do all the time to make sure the setup is working both locally as well as remotely. 

I have Exchange2010 client is outlook2010. We have a user who has about 7 additional mailboxes due to her role. She is hitting the MAPI limit of 500 connections for "ObjectFolder" Event log 9646 is generated. I have tried to apply the fix of creating a registry key called "MaxObjsPerMapiSession" as per the Microsoft KB in . I have restarted the info store but we are stil seeing Event 9646 errors for this user. I need to up the limit for this user (or globally) I cannot remove her additional mailboxes. Any suggestions. 

WHere are the Forwarders pointing to? Are they ISP or 3rd Party? If using the ISP's DNS in forwading zones add in 8.8.8.8 (for google public DNS) and see if this helps. It may be an ISP DNS issue. If not then you will need to post some more details on config etc. 

ESXi is a bare metal hypervisor. It is designed for headless use, and is more of an enterprise environment product. For the example you have given it would be more suitable to use VMware Workstation VMware Product Website You can then use dual monitors, and it is OS agnostic. 

I have office 2010 and Exchange 2010. I have send as permissions and Full access rights to a few mailboxes (System and Spam boxes mainly) with Office 2010 it adds in the additional mailboxes by default if you have full access etc. I use my desktop mainly for Mail etc, but sometimes need to use a laptop for console config etc and check mail. My problem is that it adds in the additional mailboxes in on the laptop as well. I suppose my question is can I stop outlook 2010 adding in the mailboxes on the laptop client. 

The Cisco 877 only has a single WAN port. You would need Router with 2 WAN ports and 2 Termination modems (depending on your connection method) to achieve load balancing. So yes your ISP is right. But it is best to go with a device that is designed for a load-balancing application. 

In Short your cant. :( Looking thought the Google Documentation, this is one of the features not available. There may be a 3rd Party add-on that Syncs the entries. However I cant see that there is.