Are you sure that's not the sever's authentication certificate display? This certificate makes sure, the server you are sending your credentials to is the server (or gateway or broker service) you connected to in the first place (judging by it's name [CN] on the certificate). 

IIS uses the local computers credentials (\ISSCOMPUTER$), not the users (or service principals) one. Just ad the (AD) account of the machine to your target. Maybe it now comes to another common problem – where the web server is in another (or no) domain, and the UNC share is in somewhere else. You can still configure it by setting up the remote share as a Null Session share. You can set up a Null Session by following the steps in this Technet article on how to create Null-Sessions. 

Thats right. Teaming distributes the TCP traffic over multiple interfaces (which do have multiple mac addresses), but that's done in the driver, not the IP-Stack. You application won't know about, like you vm doesn't. 

Install or just use the correct ADM(X) template(s) there or on another machine in this Domain. As the Screenshot indicates, this is Windows (Server) 2008, which is not able to edit registry settings like group policy preferences. 

Config problems will not go away with a service going away. You will still have to setup you vpn correctly, now including breakout rules for external DNS traffic. 

Any Ideas where to look for this? It is haunting me into my sleep :-( Updates: Surely I checked the local policies on the server(s). any changes would have surprised me - there are a lot of servers. Also checked the clients GPO, nothing. 

Set old IP as "permitted sender of" mysite.com and send emails from new IP -> old IP via remote SQL. Old IP then crons over any emails in the SQL and sends them out. The good : mail passes SPF and appears as being sent from old IP. Faster than solution A. the bad : mail does not pas DKIM, setup is a bit of a hack and not very maintainable. 

It occurs mainly on pages where file (image) uploads are done. It then causes a 500 error. Google hasn't returned anything conclusive, has anybody come across these errors ? 

I am getting these errors on some pages in my site (php/apache/linux/mysql vps) on intervals and can't seem to find any reproducible scenario : 

Hosting company tracked it down to an apache misconfiguration, they increased the memory limits for apache and problem is now resolved. 

I have an issue that occasionally (once or twice a week, not necessarily during peak hours) that queries on a certain db (the db of the largest of my sites) suddenly stop responding for about an hour. The queries start to pile up, mostly in "sending data" and "statistics" states, eventually load goes way up > 40, and the whole server comes to a halt. While this issue is happening, if i disable this site, all other sites and dbs on the same server run normally. I have the output of "SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS" during when it was unresponsive, I'm wondering if anyone could tell me if it shows any anomalies - I have removed the section "TRANSACTIONS" that lists all the pending queries, I can add it if it would help. 5.1.70-cll MySQL Community Server, without Innodb plugin, CentOS 5.9 Thanks in advance. 

Yes, thats the default behaviour. For any IP address - the 'name' field is dynamically filled by the client. 

This error occurs when a user-mode subsystem, such as WinLogon or the Client Server Run-Time Subsystem (CSRSS), has been fatally compromised and system security can no longer be guaranteed. In Short: Someone/Something is killing your LSA. This is less likely to happen, if the executing user has the priviledge of doing so (eg. doing thins right). What can cause this error? 

The RSAT-Setup (MSU) just adds the tools to your windows image, but does not install them. You have to activate them by yourself ("Activate Windows-Features", just type 'Feature' into the Start Menu). You can use the commandline, too: 

I would recommend a (Hard-)RAID0/1 on this for better performance and availability. But this configuration will be slow anyway - get all the cache and BB you can find on the controller (nearly all DL3xx are capable of BBWC/BBFC). 

Yes, there are multiple options. From the Scriptin Guys Blog, get the snippet (or function) and try something like this: 

You can just have a look in the scheduled tasks (and their history). There is no 'show me all remote triggers that point to me' function, as that would be a bit complicated. 

DNS is usually small and does not need an own box. Just set one up on one of your reliable servers (like file or mail). 

Note that in the command to save the permissions there is no slash. Here you can read why this is important. 

Sound like a broken AV to me, have a look at the taskmanager (ressources). I would recommend using a frequently flushing (unbuffered) copy tool like . If there are any write problems, robocopy will tell you, if it's read (and cache) problems, it will so, too. 

Problem turned out to be a misbehaving cpanel system cron job that was using up all the CPU, in turn causing apache to be unable to serve requests. 

I've come across several IPs that are marked as belonging to RIM/Blackberry but seem to be a source of spam/fake users to our sites, examples : $URL$ $URL$ Normally we this this warning ("recently reported spam source") with tor nodes and such, but how can spam be coming from the RIM network ? 

Hello I'm in the process of moving my site to a new host (ie new IP). I run a social site that sends a large volume of (valid) email, and I have built up a good sending reputation with my current IP over the last 2 years. My migration plan generally is : 

Move site to new host/IP continue sending site's mail from old IP build up sending reputation of new IP : gradually increase amount of mail sent from new IP, while reducing mail sent from old IP I would like my mail sent from both old and new IP to both be SPF and DKIM signed, and both appear as from noreply@mysite.com and return to bounce@mysite.com 

I run a reasonably busy (700,000 page views/day, php/mysql) site that gets steady traffic (normally no spikes). The last two days, around peak usage time, and for about an hour, my site had suddenly gone from being very fast to unresponsive, for about an hour, and then back to being super fast. The CPU load jumps dramatically at 2:10AM : 

Increase scheduling priority This policy setting determines which user accounts can increase the base priority class of a process. It is not a privileged operation to increase relative priority within a priority class. Specifically, this security setting determines which accounts can use a process with Write Property access to another process to increase the run priority that is assigned to the other process. A user with this privilege can still change the scheduling priority of a process through the Task Manager user interface. Or shorter: A User can do with his User Process whatever he wants. 

Wordpress does not redirect your URLs at will - but it stores every old URL along with its creating post, even if no longer used. If you change a post slug, Wordpress redirects (301) the old to the new URL. This has nothing to do with .htaccess, it's a wordpress function. Unfortunately, I've never seen this feature properly documented in the codex. Hence I cannot tell you which wp_core function does this and where in the core it is located (and you do not want to touch the core, right?). The previously used slug(s) are stored in the database in the table. Check for in the meta_key column (the actual slugs being stored in the meta_value column). If you ever want this default behavior not to happen in a particular case, this is where to delete a value and search for "used" URLs. 

sendmoreinfo is right, watches for changes in file size. Sometimes this does not happen correctly on mac clients (especially when samba is involved). I ended my search in this phenomenon after two days, the mac smb client is just wired sometimes (ever tried to connect to shares with signature check twice?). 

Solved by increasing innodb buffer pool to 60% of ram and also rebuilding the database (export/drop/import) 

sometimes when loading a page, the browser will load have the page, then it hangs for 10-15s, sometimes more, then load the rest of the page if during the hang, i refresh the page, it loads quickly there is no abnormal load either on apache or sql, no broken links, bad javascript or so 

I have a VPS with 768 MB RAM and a 1.13 GHZ processor. I run a php/mysql dating site and the performance is excellent and server load is generally very low. Sometimes I place ads on Facebook and at peak times I can get 100-150 clicks within a few seconds - this causes the server to run out of memory : Cannot allocate memory: couldn't create child process: /opt/suphp/sbin/suphp .... And all users receive an error 500 page. I am just wondering if this sounds reasonable or not - to me 100-150 does not seem to be a number that should cause apache to run out of memory. Any advice/recommendations how to diagnose the issue highly appreciated. 

Doing a google for "Research In Motion UK Limited recently reported spam source" returns tons of results of people complaining about dating/romance scammers using similar IPs. Obviously not an isolated issue with me. I have sent to RIM about the IPs I have, but this seems to be a rather bigger issue than a few IPs. So much for RIM being the "secure one". 

i'm running a hostgator vps php/apache/linux/mysql i have a problem that i cannot seem to properly diagnose/fix : 

No it's not (easily) possible. The guest never knows how it's process threads are executed - that's why we have hypervisors in the first place. 

The complete answer is somewhat complex and layed out here: $URL$ tl;dr AnyConnect is bulls*t, it messes with the local routing table. Use other VPN-Client software to create the tunnel. For example try Shrew to import the cisco profile and connect to your endpoint. Works perfect for me and is a lot more stable. 

The problem is, my user(s) can edit and delete files like they have full access. Even if the 'effective permissions' show no right to edit, the still can. The script works fine and looks like this: 

Yes and no. Hyper-V virtual machines (VMs) need to connect to networking via a virtual switch or through Single-Root Input/Output (I/O) Virtualization (SR-IOV). Leveraging InfiniBand connectivity typically means using Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA), which currently isn't supported via a virtual switch and therefore isn't available to VMs. The only currently supported use of InfiniBand is RDMA over InfiniBand for SMB traffic and user-mode RDMA over InfiniBand for HPC communications. Outside of these two scenarios, there is no InfiniBand support—which means no support for VMs. It seems that some network infrastructure vendors are heavily pushing their InfiniBand solutions and claiming to support Hyper-V over InfiniBand, even though Microsoft doesn't support it. In this scenario the IP over InfiniBand (IPoIB) miniport device is used by a Hyper-V virtual switch, to which VMs then connect. However, some organizations I work with have tried this method and have reported problems - sometimes very strange problems that were very hard to hunt down. It's important to remember that RDMA wouldn't be exposed to the VMs via the virtual switch with this method, nor does this approach use SR-IOV to directly map VMs to the InfiniBand card. The only benefit at this point is a very fast connection, which Windows Server 2012R2+ would be able to take advantage of using its virtual Receive Side Scaling (vRSS) feature. But until Microsoft tests and supports this approach, I would be very hesitant to use it. 

Set old IP as "permitted sender of" mysite.com and send emails from new IP to old IP via authenticated SMTP The good : mail passes SPF and appears as being sent from old IP, nothing specific running on old IP except mail server. the bad : mail does not pas DKIM, and sending from new IP -> old IP -> the world via SMTP is extremely extremely slow. I send 60k+ per day. 

I'm quite sure this is a server-side issue but have no idea where to start looking, any pointers much appreciated. i can attach any logs or config files that could help. 

No, i cannot keep the old IP Both servers are whm/cpanel based (which I am more comfortable with) Site is php/mysql5.1 

I have the following issue : When running a long-running php script (file upload) it timeouts after exactly 30 seconds of activity. Bizzarely, it only occurs in certain cases - the one i know for sure is it always occurs when uploading a file using the stock android browser - android for chrome is ok. The error in the apache log is : (70014)End of file found: mod_fcgid: can't get data from http client I have already increased every apache/fcgi/php setting that i know that are related to timeouts : apache Timeout 180 fcgi FcgidIdleTimeout 9600 IPCCommTimeout 520 FcgidIOTimeout 520 php max_execution_time = 360 Are there any other settings related to timeout that I am missing ? 

I'm really not sure where to start investigating this issue. I'd appreciate any pointers with : 1 - how to fully diagnose this issue now 2 - or what tools to install/ commands to run to capture extra data when it happens again. thanks in advance.