I read the Cisco documentation of Cisco 3850 and have not found configuration to send email when interface is down. ASA can do this. I really appreciate if anyone know how to share the configuration. 

Let's say I'm migrating my network to new infrastructure. So, the new site and the old site are connected using private ASs. I wonder if there is any benefit for the new site to advertise /24 along with >=/25 to the old site. The old site only advertises >=/25 to the new site. 

Any reasons for these situations? Any suggestions so that I can documenting without any contradictions? Router is Cisco ASR 12000 series. 

Juniper also has a note for changing the engine-id that needs to be done before it will work. It effectively means once you commit a new engine-id, you must also commit another username/password. 

I'm not so sure this model supports custom code (like snort) in the way you're expecting it to. Although not as elegant, you could always set up a standalone machine to run your IDS applications on. 

I think you're getting confused on how the OSI model plays into the routing. It's just a model, nothing more, nothing less. RIP works at layer 3 and sends routing information across the network. 

Not only is it possible, but it happens. The underpinnings of packet switching is that it really doesn't matter how it gets there, just that it does. This sometimes comes with issues in delivering packets out of order because of that asynchronous routing. 

The information from doesn't list all interfaces under a slot shown from . The slot has status ready from . The information from doesn't list all interfaces which are listed from . 

I have a pair of Cisco ASAs running in active/standby failover mode which I manage using the management interface. Lately, I frequently have to travel and the VPN to the university's LAN has different IP subnet from the ASA management interface. So, I cannot access the management interface when using different IP subnet. My understanding is this is due to asymmetric routing issue and the only way to overcome this is by using multiple context mode. Right now, I am not clear about the changes of configuration to be made on ASAs. The ASA uses EIGRP. Note: The pair of ASAs that I am responsible to are not the firewall for entire university campus, just for a single network which contains freenas servers for a few researchers. The VPN gateway is at different firewall and managed by official IT team. 

If there isn't an 'in your face' requirement to repair the infrastructure that's in the building right now, then you're going to be fighting an uphill battle. Most managers (and users, for that matter) are willing to accept sub-par service as long as it works; mainly because they want their IT gear to last until it dies. If a degraded level of service has been provided for long enough, people will not communicate issues anymore. They'll simply accept it as what it is, a crummy system, then complain to their coworkers and think it's your doing (you personally). I can't tell you how many times I've run across a user that's had a different issue and, upon further diagnosis, found out there was bad wiring or auto negotiation was turned off that resulted in pathetically slow speeds. My response is always to the flavor of "I can't believe you never said anything...". In essence, if your managers don't see a legitimate need for better resources, they'll accept the heartache is business-as-usual and tell everyone to suck it up and move on. As a network engineer, a big part of your job is going to be communicating those requirements to your higher-management that doesn't entirely understand what you need or why you need it. You can interpret that as 'salesman'. A method that's always worked for me is giving them cold, hard facts, but do not forget the sugar coating... Correlate things that actually matter to them. A few off the top of my head: 

WiFi has 20 MHz channel. So, channel 1 has frequencies 2400-2420MHz. Now for simplicity sake, let's just say we have an 8Hz channel. So, we have frequencies 1-8Hz or in other words we have 8 different frequencies in that channel for data transmission. 1Hz has one cycle, 2Hz has two cycles, 3Hz has three cycles and so on. With each frequency has its own cycle, how they are combined together as a channel for data transmission? 

One of my colleague kept saying 'hopefully we do not encounter firmware issue' in a project when referring to our Cisco 9000 XR series route processor. I did not bother to ask him because he seemed confident when saying. However, as far as I know, the IOS XR is the operating system in the route processor. Or am I mistaken? 

This is a very bad idea; not to mention it will not work how your anticipating it will. If you did split the pairs like this, you would only get use out of one set of them. Auto negotiation will allow a single pair to function by autoing down to 100Mb; remember, 100BASE-TX only functions on pairs 1,2,3 and 6. 

Cisco Press, Cisco Networking Academy's Introduction to VLANs, Table 3-8 However, if you disabled DTP on , then would have no further knowledge of any changes in interface changes on . So moving to access will not be conveyed to , as it would have normally expected. If you reset the connection between them, would have never changed it's mode to trunk and remain in access mode. Then you'd be having the total opposite problem ( not turning into a trunk). 

My current single uplink from 2-stacked switches to ASA is not enough to cater the link utilization (upload traffic from the 2-stacked switches to ASA). So, I have thought of using 2 uplinks. If I use Etherchannel for the 2-uplinks, then only one link will run in case that one link down instead of failover to standby ASA using 2 standby-uplinks. Please advise if there is better way of using the 2 uplinks to each ASA and failover to standby ASA in case that one uplink is down. Please refer the current and new planned diagrams below. 

DTP by default has 300 seconds of Dynamic Trunk timeout. So, Switch B will change its port operational mode to "static access" if it will have not received any DTP advertisement to trunk in the next 300 seconds [after it changes the port operational mode to "static access" or since the receive of the DTP advertisement to trunk]. I tested and the Switch B's port operational mode was changed from "trunk" to "static access" after 300 seconds. Note: The statement in [ ] is not confirmed. It is supposed to be either one. 

A switches primary function is to efficiently switch frames as fast as possible. In order to do that, they use FIBs to sustain a high, low latency throughput rate. This is generally achieved by using CAM that operates in an ASIC (i.e. hardware). 

Depending on when the commands were typed in, this sounds like the expected behaviour. If were plugged into , and moved to the trunk state, then DTP on would have negotiated trunk mode. This is how DTP normally negotiates the interface mode: 

This is highly dependent on your platform. But if it’s destined for your switch, then it’s going to require CPU processing. Routing protocols (EIGRP/OSPF), spanning-tree protocols(RSTP/MSTP), management protocols(SNMP), remote access protocols(SSH) and discovery protocols(CDP/LLDP) are a few that initially come to mind. 

May I know is it possible to only send email of logging message interface up/down instead of based on severity level? 

The distance between AP and the switch is around 60 meters. The AP is powered up and SSIDs are broadcasted. But the Ethernet interface has line Protocol down. I have changed the RJ45 connectors on both side of the cable but still same behaviour. Is this related to the cable length? 

Active ASA and standby ASA communicates through failover link. If active ASA detects its interface to switch is down, then it tells the standby ASA and the standby ASA becomes active. How does the switch connected to both ASAs know to divert traffic to standby ASA which becomes active after the interface to the original active ASA is down? Any required configuration on the switch? 

RIP isn't at the application layer because no application can use it (within reason) and the application layer needs it to find the route to the proper device. RIPs only function is to distribute routing updates. It only tells neighboring routers about routes it knows about. 

In this instance, we can see that something is happening inside , it’s using 106M of a 123M volume. Go there, find the file and remove it. 

can be all sorts of messed up, and will be none the wiser because won't forward broadcast packets on to anyone. 

Default ACL sample curtesy of Cisco IOS Login Enhancements (Login Block). Manually defining your own ACL for these parameters is ideal. 

I am documenting equipment which requires me to state installed Physical Layer Interface Module (PLIM)/slot and transceivers/interfaces. What confused me is the different information shown between and . 

Let us say I create a valid packet (contains telnet request) with TTL value less than the TTL value required to reach the destination IP. Will the computer that receive the IP packet with TTL=1 (become 0 after decrement) in the path to the destination IP send any ICMP response to me? 

From what I understand, there are protocols like VTP and CDP that no matter what will use VLAN 1. CDP and VTP are layer 2 meanwhile interface VLAN is layer 3. So, I wonder why I cannot delete interface VLAN 1? I want to use different VLAN from VLAN 1 for managing my switch but it is impossible because only interface VLAN 1 can turn up in layer-2 switch.