Solution Background/Info: As Grant posted in the comments to the original question: Giving the logged in user or Group (Domain Users/etc) access to the share, and not explicitly defining the username/password in the command solved the problem. This also solved the problem with the GPO drive mount. Not defining the "Log in As" field and allowing it to auto-authenticate automatically with the logged in user worked. This DOES solve the problem, however this does not answer the root cause of why using a shared domain account as I was originally attempting did not work. Answer Summary / Step-by-step: 

Nagios Server is running in a docker container. It's reaching out for host checks through NRPE running on various hosts within the network. The docker host is 10.10.100.100 Iptables ONLY allows inbound on tcp 5666 from 10.10.100.100 for inbound NRPE checks 

Other than BOTO, many other AWS interaction utilities will often have a similar filter or query system based on instance tagging. Like Ansible, etc. 

I needed to inject my intermediary certs. I used $URL$ to easily perform this. It can also be done manually by concatenating the certs together to form the chain, but the above tool does it quick and easy. After the chain was installed as the new cert, it's showing as fully trusted. 

If chain file_get_contents -> mcrypt_encrypt -> mcrypt_decrypt -> file_put_contents doesn't work on PDF files (why shouldn't be), you can still treat it like a binary data, not text. Or, in more systematic way, use EncFS and create encrypted mount point and store documents there. 

Display stream on web Displaying the stream on web, which will work in most cases, is via flash player. I tried two products, which are free for non-commercial usage: JW Player and Flowplayer. I stayed with Flowplayer, but I don't remember the reason, maybe because of plugins (which I don't use:) ) or because of better documentation. How to display FLV stream from VLC in web page is covered here: Stream VLC to Website with asf and Flash Troubleshooting Be aware of many problems that WILL arise. First thing, as in everything, read. VLC is very chatty program, so it will tell you where the problem is. Could be problem with permissions to access the video/audio device, missing codecs, misspelled --sout parameters,... Learn to use to see if the data really flows thru network, etc. 

Eventually found out myself. The Windows permissions are stored in "Extended attributes". The raw data of these attributes can be displayed by from Debian package : 

Next, run the deletion via API calls (You can easily test via Postman or just using curl/etc) NOTE: In the below calls, add to the HTTP Header 

So, the above authenticates users against AD and works as designed. It searches for the user group "VPN Users" within (the default '/Users' OU) If the user has the proper group set then it allows a user in! I want to add a user to another separate OU, for example: Team1/Desktop-users/Standard users could be my new OU with users in it. I want to allow users in that OU as well as the original one. Would this be as easy as adding another object in the config? 

If you post your server.conf it will greatly assist others in helping. Firstly, the errors you are getting are specifically about the ROUTES being pushed, not necessarily the IP assignment. The logs show that it's trying to get an IP, so I assume that's configured on the server, but it doesn't look like routes are. I'll go over both items... IP Assignment: To define what range of IP addresses you get from the OpenVPN server, you set it at the "server" item in your server.conf and, in my working config, defined the topology as "subnet": Example: 

This will drop ALL communication no matter which process tried to start it. Then you can start playing with and to find, which process does the bad stuff on your precious machine: 

Rsync protects date of creation. So you can rsync all files to your computer. Then run to select files older than 60 days and delete them. And upload them back via rsync. Or just delete them in destination. EDIT Result of rsync test on local directories: 

Cpanel is designed to mantain different users(customers) with their own virtual hosts, databases and FTP accounts. Therefor it creates system users and document root is in /home/, which is natural. Apache has default document root in /var/www, and if you don't have any special urges, you can let it there. Then you can make subdirectories for every virtual host, like this: 

It depends on amount of traffic you want to shape. From your parameters of internet connection I assume that you work in a small company (up to 10 employees?). In this case, router, firewall and shaper could be one device, for example from Mikrotik. Or homemade linux configuration, which gives you extensibility for the future. Regards, Martin 

So those directories don't match, you never actually mounted the htpassswd file If you write out to it will work since it's writing to your current directory, not to The following worked perfectly for me: 

I have an OpenVPN server that authenticates against a single AD domain. Here is my auth-ldap.conf that is used with OpenVPN 

ANSWER TO THE QUESTION: Logical 'OR' -- the GPO will apply if any of the Security Filters match. SOLUTION TO SITUATION: Configure user Group Policy Loopback Processing Mode 

Right now the only thing I can think of is relying on iptables and windows firewall within the instances themselves which is possible but a lot harder to manage. Another idea is deploying a software firewall within EC2 (more $$) that can allow/deny the traffic in a stateful way. Yet another machine to manage. Another idea is to have security group denying traffic inbound from public subnet into private subnet that would have to be allowed on all instances within the private subnet. The problem is that security groups do not have deny rules. Again not ideal. Either having stateful ACL, or allowing deny rules on security groups would solve the problem fully. Unfortunately neither are possible within current AWS infrastructure. 

In the output of the command above, there are some cryptic values like CI,OI,I,FULL,... Great explanation of these values is here: $URL$ 

Which is the first part of VLC command to connect to webcam. For more details follow the mentioned HOWTO. Especially look at "video group" part and correct device path to /dev/video and /dev/audio. Those can be different on your laptop. Transcode video to FLV. I personally use FLV, since it is less CPU demanding. Transcode string I use is this: 

Hmm seems to me, that admin.api.frapi is the "default", because it's in the highest position in directory. Try to rename file default to 000-default. More info: nginx walks thru sites-enabled alphabetically. If there is no virtual host config for desired hostname (given from HTTP request), nginx takes the first file. 

I prefer Mikrotik RouterBoard. RB450G is powerful, easy to maintain and price is very decent. At home I use RB433AH with 3 miniPCI wireless cards. 

If you want powerful router, I would recommend Mikrotik ($URL$ It's not that easy to setup, since you have to know how subnetting, firewall and other related stuff works. But it will allow much better debugging of network in comparsion to DD-WRT (personal opinion!). And it fits to your use case, if providing of internet connection to bunch of flats in building is what you want to accomplish. I would every user (ethernet port) assign VLAN id - on switch port define PVID, which is default VLAN assigned to packet with no VLAN id. Port to router will be trunk of all VLANs and so the port on router. In router allow only connection between vlan and internet interface, so communication between users will be droped. And if some users would like to communicate between themselves (gaming, warezing) there is no problem to add rules to firewall. Last note about "two users communicates": You can merge them to one VLAN, so data will flow only thru switch, thus saving router upload bandwidth, OR they can stay in different VLANs and you will enable desired communication on firewall. Second approach allows better control, but consumes lot of router bandwidth, thus you should think about QoS. 

This solved the problem for both the logon script and the GPO drive mount. I ended up ditching the script and just using the GPO. Unfortunately this doesn't identify the root cause of why it failed with the explicit account in the first place. If someone had an environment were they "had to" set it up that way, I foresee them running into much frustration. 

I feel like I've pulled down from other git servers using HTTPS without having to do anything special so I'm not sure what's up in this case. From my workstation, I use SSH so I never run into this, but I just tested HTTPS from my Mac workstation and I get the same message. Does anyone know why git is not trusting my trusted cert? 

Create a COMPUTER group policy under the OU of the desired computer(s) Edit the new GPO and browse to: Computer Configuration/Administrative Templates/System/Group Policy Enable "Configure user Group Policy Loopback Processing Mode" and set it to "Merge" Add any USER policies you want to enable to this same COMPUTER policy (loopback makes this legal) Ensure the new GPO has security filters to validate the users you want, and the computer(s) you're applying to. 

You can check content of the hard drive with . Actual destroying data with mentioned above or with . 

As in the laptop part, your VLC on server is bind to port 8082. Why 8082 and not 8081? 8081 is already taken by the SSH remote forward. Why we don't use transcode part as in first example? The video is already in the right format, so all we have to do is just stream it as-is. Testing. In both examples, you can test functionality by viewing streams via VLC. You can test your local stream: 

As you can see, only two processes communicate via HTTP with some servers - iceweasel and spotify. The last column is [process_number]/[process_name]. With this, you can query and get the actual process: 

Access on test.example.com and test.example.com:10522 will be treated in the same VirtualHost and both will be seen as port 80. But it's not clear from your question if it is what you want to accomplish. Not even what operating system you use. And what do you mean with "10522 is another webserver"? EDIT AFTER CLARIFICATION OF ANSWER: There can be at least two ways how to do it in Apache