From what I can find online the PIN is just supposed to appear on the client somehow. I've never seen this in practice and it doesn't occur with my mobile devices when I try to allow a client by PIN. I've never seen any further detail given about when or how the PIN appears. It may all just be a big hoax. 

If you don't already know your computers' hostnames then you can find out a computer's hostnames in the sharing preferences on that computer, or you can find out the hostnames of other computers on the network using the dns-sd command. This command uses Bonjour to let you browse network services; you'll only find computers that are actually advertising some network service (which, by and large, are the only ones you care about). If you want to connect to some computer providing ssh, you can find the available computers using: 

In general you can search for hosts providing particular services using the service names: $URL$ The Bonjour protocol also provides the ability to browse for all services, not just particular ones. You can do this by browsing for the special service 

AutoHotKey can do that. There are lots of examples online. You probably need the keynames , , , and . I use 

If you're asking if OS X was developed using the code base of, for example, System V, the answer is no. OS X's lineage is goes back to BSD and Mach. But that doesn't mean it's not a real Unix. As far as I know the certification doesn't really mean anything except that Apple decided to pay for it for Leopard. 

The IPv6 address registered is for ln0, the loopback interface that is useless to anything but the computer running the services. ifconfig lists my IPv6 addresses, including an autoconfigured, temporary, public IPv6 address on my system's real network interface, which would be perfect. Why does dns-sd not register services using this address, and how can I make it do so? An additional note, my router supports NAT-PMP so even though my computer doesn't directly have a public IPv4 address I'd expect it to use NAT-PMP to make sure services I've enabled are available over IPv4, but this doesn't seem to be the case. When I look up a service instance in the domain and then use dns-sd -G v4 to resolve the given hostname it says there's no IPv4 record. 

If the owner of a Mac hasn't enabled the root account (via NetInfo manager and the usual suspects) then is it possible to successfully execute a sudo'd command to effect root tasks? Why / Why not? I don't have an unadulterated Mac to test this. 

Yes, the radio schedule controls the availability of your wireless connection and is meant for those in primarily wired area who don't care much about who gets cut off. To answer your first question, the radio will kick you off without warnings, according to the changes you have set up. For your second question, I couldn't find the exact setting page from your Wifi snapshot under my own version () and advanced Wireless only describes channel and encryption settings, rather than a schedule. I would guess that it doesn't matter that you found a settings page enable your wireless manually, because another will still "remember" your schedule and power things off at the appointed time. It is up to your router to handle that. 

The user-friendly way will be running free anti-spyware software, though it requires installation and a multi-hour scan that may or may not find your problem. Manually, you might want to see if your homepage was redirected under . If you have anything newer than IE6, then you can probably delete it via . On the left, look inside and also in , and from the lists on the right, select the offending iMesh parts and click on Remove. Welcome, and good luck. You can comment under here if you need more assistance. 

Avoiding a full Cygwin-like install, is there some equivalent to the Japanese-English translation/reference tool gWaei from Ubuntu/Gnome, but for Windows? If not, what open source translators allow us to review and look up both English and Kanji characters? Update: My Gozoku test-drive was not good, because I discovered it doesn't take romaji input like gWaei seemlessly does (ie: you can't type the english characters for "arigato" and get a japanese dict lookup in Gozoku because it is a pure dictionary). Also, Gozoku answers a search with a result tree that isn't pastable without some expansion of branches, right-clicking and choosing "save to clipboard." gWaei allows you to easily get a flat list of results where you don't HAVE to copy whole words. When you lack a Japanese keyboard layout or the knowlege to use one, cutting bits and pieces of different japanese results as if they were newspaper collages is great for putting together a google-able search is nice. I'll check out the sourceforge build of gWaei and see if I needn't look elsewhere. 

Yes, you should try your old adapter, it sounds like it is more correct than the one supplied with the laptop. Verify the polarity is correct first though, if that is incorrect it could damage things. As far as why does it charge, it makes electrical connection and supplies enough voltage and current within tolerance to charge the battery, dies mean it's optimal. I doubt the PS supplied with with laptop is correct for it, my guess is someone misplaced the original or it failed and they happened to find something that worked to get by. It's more common than you would think. 

Is there any way to enable this functionality in Windows 10, or is there a USB adapter that has this functionality in Windows 10? Laptop is a Dell Latitude 5580 with an Intel I219-LM Ethernet adapter running Windows 10 Professional edition. 

Assuming you mean from a networking standpoint, you need a NAS device which would provide those services... This portion of your question was unclear. Generally all that is needed is some simple port forwarding in your router, such as port 22/TCP for SSH in your router would be port forwarded to the static IP address you would router to your NAS device. Note that this usually not the best way to accomplish this from a security standpoint, using a VPN client is usually preferred even in a home network. Be aware that many routers have the ability to provide VPN services or act as file servers to both internal and external clients securely. ASUS is a common example I am familiar with, but there are others. 

You should use a battery that is recommended for your UPS by the manufacturer, or is a direct replacement for the existing battery with equivalent rating. Use of alternative batteries can cause issues with the charging or reporting circuitry of the UPS, and can even potentially be a fire or explosive hazard. Since you did not state the specific model and rating of the UPS or existing battery(s), this is the best answer I can provide. 

Gnome's Places menu only lists SYSTEM (mostly the r/w Casper filesystem portion of the LiveUSB stick) and OS (my local Windows hard drive). Both are visible as fuseblock /sda devices, so there's nothing to un-hide. 

I normally keep running PPPoE on the modem to ensure a tiny bit lesser load on my router and let the modem do the job it was specifically optimized to do best. However, I sometimes switch it to the modem for two reasons: 

See if you can print a different file from the same program, a webpage, and a textedit page. Don't worry about spooling sizes. Even a single page in notepad under Windows itself can "register" as 1.5+ MB when spooled out to the printer. Your problem is likely: An incorrect choice for the Macintosh's printer driver. A particular post-processing setting on the Printer Preferences is throwing off the HP at the other end of the wire. If the files are in PDF format, mismatched PDF output levels could be wrong (like Adobe software using PDF level 3 instead of 1 or 2.) Save yourself sanity and troubleshooting time: just connect your printer and Mac once via USB and test printing again before you start making settings changes. 

top - 11:09:20 up 9 min, 2 users, load average: 0.14, 0.39, 0.39 Tasks: 178 total, 2 running, 176 sleeping, 0 stopped, 0 zombie Cpu(s): 2.3%us, 1.0%sy, 0.0%ni, 96.5%id, 0.0%wa, 0.0%hi, 0.2%si, 0.0%st Mem: 3081644k total, 1178648k used, 1902996k free, 128244k buffers Swap: 0k total, 0k used, 0k free, 392340k cached PID USER PR NI VIRT RES SHR S %CPU %MEM TIME+ COMMAND 2595 user 20 0 82868 21m 11m S 3 0.7 0:13.02 npviewer.bin 1375 root 20 0 167m 15m 8400 S 2 0.5 0:13.72 Xorg 2665 user 20 0 397m 15m 11m S 1 0.5 0:00.24 gnome-terminal 2689 user 20 0 19276 1364 956 R 1 0.0 0:00.09 top 2073 user 20 0 310m 33m 8568 S 0 1.1 0:05.65 compiz 2200 user 20 0 212m 10m 8240 S 0 0.3 0:01.97 multiload-apple 2469 user 20 0 612m 63m 32m S 0 2.1 0:17.31 chromium-browse 

Generally speaking you can place a higher level PCI card in a lower level slot, but not all lower level cards will work in higher level slots due to missing +5v line in 2.2 and higher slots. There is generally no compatibility issues after PCI 2.2 You may run into trouble with some 2.1 or older cards that require the +5v bus to operate, not all do, in fact very few require it. From version 2.2 on, there is essentially no compatibility issues to be concerned with. 

@AliChen seems to be on the right path, actually this is a good line of thinking I hadn't considered. I never checked the motherboard specs when I posted my comment. This board uses a NEC (now Renesas) D720200F1 USB chipset for it's USB 3.0 ports, which seems to need a firmware update for full compatibility with published USB 3.0 standards, more information is available here. There is also information on TechPowerUp forums on more updated firmware information for this chipset as well. Renesas does not offer the firmware update directly from what I can see, so it might take a little trial and error. Gigabyte seems to have no official update on their site that I could find either and this firmware is not part of your BIOS. Remember that anytime you mess with firmware, especially in older hardware like this, there is a potential of something to fail or go wrong. Just giving you fair warning, do with this information what you will. However the other answer of replacing the motherboard should be considered given the age and the relatively cheap availability of AM3/AM3+ motherboards that are comparable or superior to your existing board. 

Google, Microsoft, and Apple use parts of their core mobile operating system to collect SSID location information and can use that to estimate your location. In other words, they use YOU to map where you, or more specifically your mobile device and everyone else's mobile device, to maintain a world wide database of SSID and relative strengths and GPS positioning... then by referencing what SSID are visible and approximate strengths for those SSIDs, your position can be approximated by triangulation. $URL$ 

This is mostly answered. Regarding your first two issues... they're also "normal" in this day an age of "security via inconvenience" to us users. They are that anything you download from Internet Explorer is tagged so that when you (or some surreptitious virus pretending to be "you") try to let it loose, the system warns you that the internet is untrusted. You can probably get around it by downloading programs with Firefox, Safari or something else next time, but they all still give you a milder popup before letting you run exe and msi programs... just less clicking IIRC. When you pass that warning, there's the other box called User Account control, which cannot be avoided. Well, that's a half-truth 

I'm running UNETBOOTIN on my USB stick. Ubuntu 10.04.02 is running OK, but I have two usability questions: 1) Is there a way to enlarge the persistent storage now that I've found need for more than 100MB originally allocated? 2) How do I mount the actual "Windows" side of the stick? I can't seem to find something specific in mount: 

The first column of the output with the four digit numbers (in this particular output) is the process ID for the process name at the far right of the table. BTW, press 'q' to exit top or it will keep polling and updating endlessly every few seconds. top only shows a screenful's worth of lines with the hungriest processes rather than the dozens of total processes. You can use slhck's pattern to find other processes. Even my own example had about 200 processes running. You probably are looking for your process ID as an intermediate step to something else. If you need to kill a process, because it's out of control, you can research kill and killall. you can type man kill and it will give you useful info. To exit that manpage and most other interactive CLI programs such as top, press 'q'. 

No, is a filesystem operation, it needs to know what sectors are free so it can inform the hardware. The Linux ntfs-3g driver has no documented calls for or so it will not work. You will need to or each filesystem in it's native OS. Don't worry too much about it though, your SSD drive will happily chug along forever without trim, it is not a requirement and your drive will work fine. Here is an explanation of what TRIM really does 

You are incorrect in assuming that data from your desktop PC to your server has to transpose the network to the far end router and back, it does not work that way. The DD-WRT router is acting as a switch (not a hub), assuming a simple host to host interaction, the connection between your desktop PC and server will not leave the DD-WRT router (switch) except to the ports which are connected to each device. What you have here is one large broadcast domain, broadcast packets will tranpose the entire network, not normal host to host (IP address/MAC to IP address/MAC) communications. If your connection speed is slow, and DD-WRT is doing it's job handling the switch functions, the cause of your lag/slowness is somewhere else. If for some reason the DD-WRT device is acting as a hub, not a switch, that could be the issue... but unless your DD-WRT device is EXTREMELY old, that is not the case. And the configuration you are asking how to set this up with two subnets, two broadcast domains, or two networks, in this case the references are all basically the same. But I doubt this is the answer to your problem. 

SATA-III drives are all backwards compatible with SATA-I/II, you should have no problem installing an SSD drive in your system. All other conditions being equal, an internal SATA-II drive will outperform a USB 3.0 external drive by almost double in real world performance.