I started to make a small game in XNA . And recently i tried to add a "fog" on "pixel shader HLSL" with the class Effect from XNA . I search online about some tutorial and found many sample. But nothing want work on my game :-( . Before i already add a "fog" effect in my game and everything work, because i used the class "BasicEffect" but with the class "Effect" and HLSL, it's really more complicated. If somebody have an idea, it's will be wonderfull. Thanks again. Here is my code HLSL, i use. 

I come here, because i'm trying to add some "menu" interface in my small XNA Game . I found on internet a nice library adviced by many devellopers. Till now everythink is ok, the problem is my C# code logic. I try to allow the player (user) to change the screen resolution . The resolution and screen are both of them change . The problem is about the "cursor" of my computer mouse . It's really weird, i don't why but the cursor of my mouse does not select the right elements .It's look like a gap persisted between the old window. Here is the code i use, as you can see , very simple. And should be normally work. I hope you have some idea why . I'm lost :'( 

This PARTIALLY works however the ball goes in weird directions sometimes, on top of that the ball can actually go through the bottom portion of the paddle (it seems that from the bottom of the paddle, there is a gap the ball can exactly fit through). Really the physics of the ball just seem weird and not fluid at all. I'm not brilliant at maths so I don't really know of any other way to go about this. Help would be greatly appreciated. 

The program checks the points of the objects rect's to see if they have passed any of the paddles and then applies changes to the balls public variables. Here is the ball update code: 

due to the fact I pass in a pointer to converted integer. However if I don't pass in a pointer I get this error: error C2664: 'SDL_Surface *TTF_RenderGlyph_Blended(TTF_Font *,Uint16,SDL_Color)' : cannot convert argument 2 from 'const char *' to 'Uint16' Any help would be greatly appreciated. 

I've been working on a pong clone, i've made games in the past but they have all been very hacky. This time I was trying to go for a better approach in terms of using OOP or patterns. So far the games not posed many issues, I am however having problems thinking about the collision system and ball physics. In my main loop the collision code is as follows: 

I'm just trying to update with "SetData" with new vertices and indices but i throws the exception: "The array is not the proper size for the Amount of data requested." 

I already searched on google and found many people with the same problem. And I realized that it was a problem of encoding. With the return lines unrecognized '\ n' . I tried to copy and paste to notepad and save as with ASCII or UTF8 encoding. But the result is always the same. Do you have an idea please ? Thanks a looot :-) Here is my [.fx] file : 

I developed a small 3d games xna and uses a "DynamicVertexBuffer" and "DynamicIndexBuffer" to store and draw my vertices. Everything works fine, but my problem is the "Update" function where I update my buffer. Each apel update I have to reset my buffer using the keyword "new DynamicVertexBuffer (...." It goes down the performance and reduce the frames per second of my games. Do I have to initialize my buffer each time in my function "Update ()"? Is it okay to reset every time my buffer to each call / frame I can not find a solution to update correctly my Dynamicbuffer with "setData ()" function without having to initialize whenever my buffer just before. Am I obliged to Reset-"DynamicVertexBuffer" and "DynamicIndexBuffer" before the update? If I call "setData ()" before reset it, I throw an exception: Works well but I have initialized every time "dynamicIndexBuffer" and "dynamicVertexBuffer" before update! (Consumes more resources?) 

The point made by Byte56 is true (you need an else if or this won't work), but you should also check that the key was not down last frame before doing anything with it. So something like: 

There is no single answer, the exact frequency probably changes from game to game. You're right in that recalculating every frame is probably not all that necessary or optimal. Decouple the pathfinding update from the other updates, and tweak the frequency to your liking. Find the point that is just often enough to not look unresponsive. 

If the game is paused, the code will just skip over that part to the end of the big while loop. At the end of that loop, set 

It sounds like it's colliding with itself. I have no idea what Level.GetCollision actually does, but I'm assuming that based on its name and call signature that you give it a coordinate and it checks to see if there is anything in the level that exists at that point, and I'm assuming that your tile is a perfectly valid candidate to collide with. The issue might be that you are adding the direction to the x component, not the y component. If you're moving vertically, it would make sense that 'what's coming up' would be a result of adding or subtracting a value from the y component. 

I work for a while on a minecraft game (voxel). I am front a problem for a long time about the collision detection. I want recover the cubes collision from my highlighted black's cube like on the picture , but only on the sides. And not on the edges ! Actually i got all cubes in red and green when i check with the boundingBox method. Actually i use the method with the class "BoundingBox" to check for collisions. Can anyone help me or direct me on the best way for retrive the right cube ? Code example with the boundingBox methode for check the collision 

I'm having some problem to draw textures with class "DrawUserIndexPrimitive" on Xna. I can draw my cubes / models without problem. But I want to draw different textures on my cubes. I loop on each "ID" of a different texture applied to my different cube. But it does not work. I apply every time buffer and vertexPosition with IndexBuffer different from my class "GraphicData." the final texture to be applied is the same on all my cubes thank you Here is my code for function "Draw" 

I developed a small and simple 3D games minecraft style. I would add a "MiniMap". Until here everything is fine. I had the idea to load the entire map in the background, and then I added the edge of the minimap over. So I can move the map when the player moves. My problem is that I do not know how to make hidden anything above the minimap. Have you any idea? I'm stuck in my development Here is a schematic of what I would do with my minimap. And hide all that is striped in red, outside the minimap. Thank a looooot ;-) 

The GameLoop is ran within loop that is configured to run at 60FPS. You can see this in this code block here: 

I have been building a pong clone. I've been using a mixture of peoples different code to understand the way they structure their games as well as reading on game patterns. Currently I've gotten to draw a paddle on the screen and the player can move it with the keyboard no problem. The issue comes when a player presses a button that is not 'Up' or 'Down'. For instance when the player holds the 'Up' key the paddle travels upwards, but if they simultaneously hold the 'Right' key it causes the paddle to fly downwards at a much greater speed. My keyboard checking code is: 

I created two of these class objects to hold the image that is created from the players score variables. Issue is that the first time these objects are created, they are not shown on the screen. It's only when the objects are created again that they are shown. In gameloops constructor class: 

I'm unsure of what is causing the paddle to behave so strangely. Any insight given into this problem or even just the way I've approached this problem would be appreciated. 

From what I can see it doesn't matter where you recreate the classes, it will work. Is this due to how the classes are being initialised? My first thought is that it would be this line: 

I recently added "Shadow Mapping" in my XNA games to include shadows. I followed the nice and famous tutorial from "Riemers" : $URL$ . This code work nice and I can see my source of light and shadow. But the problem is that my light source does not match the field of view that I created. I want the light covers the entire map of my game. I don't know why , but the light only affect 2-3 cubes of my map. ScreenShot: (the emission of light illuminates only 2-3 blocks and not the full map) 

Simply export your annimation from 3DS Max to a file type by supproter "XNA" (fx, fbx, etc. ..) And import your annimation in your project xna with "importer". (see the sample in the use of Microsoft Skinned model annim sample). Many existing tutorial to convert a model from 3ds Max to annimé xna .. Here is one: Tuto 3ds Max to Xna model anim 

UPDATE: See photos below the description I try desperately to implement shadows on my XNA games. My game is a style of games like Voxel (minecraft). The problem is that I do not find support / help or example explaining how to add shadows on cubes (vertices and indices) with (BasicEffect). I just find examples to add shadows with a (HLSL Effect) or a "Model". Is it possible to create shadows with the class "BasicEffect" on vertices cube ? I already try with "Matrix.CreateShadow(...)" but no success . I really hope so. The logic of my function "DrawWorld":