I'm assuming, possibly incorrectly that your users are sitting in from of the windows boxes and need access to some linux gui applications. VNC works very nicely. Most Linux distributions have a the server sides vnc x-server included these days. Get a compatible windows vnc client and you should be good. If you need some additional security look for the ssl-enabled vnc stacks that are starting to crop up. Getting a windows side xserver like the one in cygwin will also works but is more complicated and will be much harder to explain to windows users. If your users are already linux savy this won't be to bad, otherwise go with vnc. 

This might not be correct in your case. But, typically the answer to this question for a database application is that the database needs vacuumed, optimized or some such as is appropriate for the database in question. From what I can find it looks like mysql has an command. I'd look into that. 

A Windows 2008 R2 machine reboots automatically every now and then, typically on Fridays afternoons. The reboots are "announced" in the event log as follows: 

Yes, On the file server: In "server manager", "roles", "file services", right click "manage shares and memory", "manage open files". You can do so also remotely if you run server manager elsewhere and right-click connect to a remote server. Normally, hardly anyboday besides an Administrator can do that and should not do so lightly (with great power comes great responsibility). 

Maybe you can log all real-life DNS requests for a sufficiently long period of time (this may in fact be several months if you want to catch that once-per-quarter-query-all-printer-page-statistics script). Then delete all records never requested for. 

You may have a considerable delay in upgrades because it may take a few back and forth movements antil this mobile WSUS learns which of the updates are actually needed and should be downloaded. 

Port 25 is the standard port SMTP traffic runs on. If you intend for you system to be an email server than those might be legit servers trying to send you or your users email. If you do not intend your system to be an email server, figure out how to get port 25 turned off. Historically email servers would be configured to politely send on email for other servers. Today this is bad, bad, bad. It's called being an open email relay. It would be wise for you to verify that you are not doing this. But, don't go to far and try to block port 25 traffic if you do mean to accept email from the outside world. 

You do not need to recompile anything. In fedora you can get the sqlite php module by installing the php-pdo module. The following should do the trick. 

I'm playing with Windows 2012 DHCP server for IPv6. As with IPv4, the client network interfaces can be configured to either obtain an IPv6 address automatically, or use a statically configured address. However, what I observe is that even for those hosts where I configured a static IPv6 address, they additionally acquire a DHCP address. This is even the case for the DHCP server itself! How come? 

To be honest, the zone (or as someone later edited) was really . Therefore I needed to remove from the globale DNS block list applied. 

I do see that I can't enable the Meltdown/Spectre mitigations in Windows Server 2008 R2 is a similar question, but I suppose that the environment differences may justify different remedies. After installing the Meltdown/Spectre related Windows updates and registry keys, and verifying that the relevant Vmware patch is installed (more precisely, ESXi550-201709101-SG is listed as "considered obsolete by the host", as is ESXi550-201709102-SG, but ESXi550-201709103-SG is installed). The Microsoft testing tool gives me only 

This might already be what your doing but, here is a thought. If the contents of sample are only to be accessed via FTP then you can move that directory outside the web server's document root and use your 0775 with owner=user and group=nobody plan. The php script will be able to write, user will be able to use FTP and the outside world will not be able to get at sample through the web server. 

Nothing requires that ping be possible between two hosts. It might be that somebody between you and google is dropping ICMP packets. If everything else is working I'd not worry much about this. If you are particularly worried check with whoever runs your networking equipment or firewall and see if they are letting ICMP traffic through. Also check to see if you can ping anybody else in the outside world other than google? 

We have an Exchange 2010 on Windows2008R2 and OWA was up and running fine. After recent updates and a reboot, we first had a problem getting the Exchange Management console started. This problem was ultimately solved (something was wrong wit Proxy settings), but it seems that some of our attempts to solve it have broken other stuff. At least what we are facing now is that OWA gives us "400 Login Timeout" (per ). We have already removed and recreated and virtual directories with no success. We tried to follow whatever google spits out about the subject, but it all seems to be for Exchange 2007 or earlier and therefore at one step or other simply is not applicable to our situation. 

A previously nicely functioning Remote Desktop Server Farm ahs stopped working two days ago. The setup is as follows: 

You should try the Django work without any restarting of apache. Most sever side environments work fine while doing development work without any need for stopping and starting the web server over and over again. But, yes you can run any number of apace instances as long as you make sure your second server's config file is pointing at different resources. Like: 

About serving static files. Yes, you can use a lighter web server to do this. But, before you go to the effort be sure that it will do you any good. Is apache really using resources you need elsewhere? Maybe just configure apache to not start quite so many child processes. Be sure the added complication will pay for itself, because down the road it will almost assuredly confuse somebody when they try to figure out how everything is working. 

That other dude got your links totally wrong cause is in fact the URL encoding of the UTF-8 encoded unicode codepoint U+200E (LEFT-TO-RIGHT MARK). To cath their link juice anyway, the following might work (note the flag): 

If you copy-pasted your config here you have a typo in it ( should be ). It should hardly be the cause for your memory eating until swapping kicks in, but it may be worth a try. 

Possibly other variants exist as well. There is of course one important point: Don't shoot yourself in the foot! For example, 

This is not a DNS problem (although there is one problem: I get "... has no A record" instead of 204.232.175.78). What you observe with is caused by a http redirect (). 

I assume that the sequence of events logged herein, including the time deltas of about 0.3 seconds between steps, is in fact "normal" and contarry to what the user claims, this looks extremely as if he had sent the mail by Outlook? 

I'd suggest using the expensive raid controller to do the bulk of the raid work. LSI cards and the software they come with works quite nicely. When properly configured, they will send you email when intereting things happen to the array. Like when disks fail. There is nothing wrong with either of the two linux software raid options, but you've gone out and purchased a somewhat fancy raid card. Let it do the work. Configure the disk array to expose one big device to Linux. If you would like to break up the final device into small volumes use lvm for that. One big physical volume, one big volume group and cut the volume group into whatever number of logical volumes you need. 

Be sure to try generating lots of different types of failed login attempts. Try from X (gdm or kdm or xdm), try from the console, try from ssh, try from sudo and try from su. Different subsystems can (and will) be configured different ways. It's not uncommon for ssh to be configured to use an internal login command that cuts around the /var/log/btmp business. Try the command as well. You might look in /var/log/secure to see if your failed login attempts are being stored there. But, I'm afraid I don't know the structure of the Debian log directory. Try on anything in the /var/log directory. It's quite likely that ssh is logging something someplace. 

I guess this is precisely the event one can expect if a Windows update from our WSUS server requires a reboot. However, as far as I can see, such reboots should happen at most at about 3 a.m. This has happened repeatedly this year, namely 

Everything works fine except when someone tries to retrieve In fact, what happens is that the client gets a reply with redirection to On the other hand, 

I am aware that it is possible to exclude folders from roaming profiles in , or (for central management) preferedly by a GPO setting (User settings - Admin templates - System - roaming profiles - exclude directories from roaming profiles). Thus if I add to that setting, that folder will not be sync'ed, so it behaves more or less as if were under . I need a way to include folders. That is, I have a software that stores stuff in , but I want it sync'ed. Unfortunately, I do not find any GPO settings for this pupose. Currently I have a workaround with a logoff-skript that copies to and a logon-skript that copies everything under to . But I am not happy with such a workaround and it feels like error prone. Additionally, I wish I could include the registry settings under (i.e., personalized file-typ associations) to the roaming profile. I am aware that this is excluded on purpose (after all, if the settings say that files hould be used with application XYZ, it may happen that XYZ is not even installed on other machines). But in my case, I am managing a terminal server farm where all farm members have the same software installed, and users complain that e.g. they have to pick their preferred browser or image viewing software every day. (From my research so far, it might help to repeat the above workaround with - but I did not even try that yet as I am not sure if it is a good idea to just wildly copy registry files around or if the destination would even be writable at the time the logon skript runs) Any idea for (better) solutions to this problem?