I have set up a Microsoft "Live" account, and one of the features is the "OneDrive" cloud storage. I've used this quite a bit from Windows 7, and it has worked flawlessly - I could open my files everywhere, even on a Mac. Now with my new Windows 10 laptop, I don't have to install the OneDrive client software anymore - it's a built-in Win10 app. Sounds like a great improvement - but where on earth do my files go?? The files that I synchronize to OneDrive using the Win10 Onedrive app don't show up in the same place as my Windows 7 files, so on Windows 7 or a Mac, I cannot see those files...... or am I just looking in the wrong place?? What would be the right place to look for files synchronized by the Win10 Onedrive app?? 

Using Tortoise Hg you can right-click on a file and view its revision history, which only shows those changesets in the repository that changed that specific file. Is there a way to accomplish the same thing in MacHg? If I view the full revision history I see all the changesets and the search tool filters the list down on commit messages and other meta data, but I can't find a method to filter the list to only those changes impacting a given file. 

I have an Outlook meeting invite with over 40 people on it, but in the field of the appointment tab and on the tab people show up in the order they were added, not alphabetically. This makes it difficult to scan the list to see if a given person is already on it. Is there a way to alphabetize the list of people who have been invited to a given meeting? 

I'm trying to write a Windows CMD file (for Windows 7) that will launch four instances of Visual Studio 2010 with four solutions (which make up the project I'm working on right now). What I've tried is something like this: 

I'm trying to find a good, simple CD-to-MP3 ripper to copy my physical CD's to my computer's hard disk. I'm running Windows 7 Professional x64 - and that appears to be a major problem. All the "usual" free- and shareware tools I've tried (CD-to-MP3, Visual MP3 and quite a few more) seem to have trouble with either 64-bit Windows, or with my HP CD/DVD built into my HP Compaq Elite 8100 machine. Does anyone have any good recommendations? I don't want to install a monster like iTunes - something really clean, small, simple would be fine. Free- or Shareware - if it works reliably and with good quality output, I'll be happy to register! Any hints are welcome! 

In the PowerPoint slider sorter view, is there a way to set the zoom level larger than 100%? On PowerPoint for Mac this slider goes to much higher values, essentially allowing zoom all the way in to a single slide, but on the Windows version (depending on screen resolution and slide dimensions) the maximum zoom is often several slides wide. Evidently it's possible to achieve a similar affect by changing the page size, but is there some sort of preferences hack that will change the maximum value of this slider? 

I don't have an answer as to why the other folder didn't import properly, but I found a work around. In a Windows-based version of Outlook I opened the PST file and exported everything at the top level but not in the folder into a separate PST file. I then separately imported this separate file into Outlook for Mac. 

By default, Windows 10 (Pro) seems to open files in Edge - yuck! I picked Acrobat Reader instead - and for a while, it seemed to work. Then, however, I suddenly get a message in the message center "An app association has been reset" (or something like that - mine is in German) - without any further explanation - and now Win10 is again opening all my files in Edge. I keep doing this - sometimes more than once a day - but I can't seem to get Win10 to simply ACCEPT my choice of Acrobat Reader over Edge - this is HIGHLY ANNOYING ! Is there any way or hack to get Win10 to finally SHUT UP and just accept that I prefer opening my files in Acrobat Reader? 

Update Screen shot showing the timescale portion of the graph as well. Definitely not stacked three high and fonts are normal size. I was going to say yes it occurs in all my files, but then I realized I based them all on the same template, so I found another project file of no relation, and also created a "new" file and neither showed the same whitespace issue. It is clearly related to a peculiarity of my specific file, which is great to know. 

There doesn't appear to be a method for selecting a particular font weight in the new message default font dialogue box. For example: I can select Calibri, but not specifically Calibri Light. 

Of course - this will happily launch Solution#1, but then it is blocked and never gets around to start up the other solutions. So I need something like "execute those four tasks in parallel" - but in Windows CMD script... any takers?? I might also consider PowerShell, if that would make life easier... I would just like to be able to click on a single icon, go grab a coffee, and when I'm back, my four solutions would be open in Visual Studio for me. Any thoughts, ideas? 

My buddy is using Microsoft Live Mail 2011. The challenge is: this is a basically German setup - so the menus and dialogs and all are German. He also needs to write e-mails in English and French, and would like to also spell-check these e-mails before sending. Under , you can define what languages are supported by the spellchecker. We made sure we have all the German, French an English languages installed and ready. BUT: even with this setup, while German e-mails are spellchecked correctly, anything we type in English is shown with a red squiggly underline.... What I've been unable to find is how to tell the e-mail editor that this is an ENGLISH text now so that the English spell checker would be used. We even went so far as to set one of the English languages as the default (using the button in the options dialog) -> same result. Gemran is spellchecked correctly, all English text is underlined as mistakes.... How on earth can we teach Live Mail to either use all installed languages when spell-checking, or how can we define that a given e-mail is German, another one is English, and a third is French?? 

I am attempting to import a large (5 GB) .pst file created in Outlook 2007 for Windows into Outlook 2011 for Mac. When I view the file in Outlook 2007 I have a large number of messages at the top level (e.g. at the "personal folders" level in the picture below) as well as a single subfolder into which I've manually sorted messages I've sent. 

The whole area in the orange box is totally useless and I can't figure out how to get rid of it. It's wasting a tremendous amount of vertical space. I can collapse the ribbon, but this wasted space just slides up. 

However, once I've started a new message, I can use the drop-down font selection box and select , which brings up a totally different dialog that enables me to select from the list box. 

Whatever you have set in there is displayed when a new tab is opened without a specific URL. It default to which shows the most recent sites - but this crapware re-routed that URL to their lame search site. Fixed it, and things are now back to normal and Firefox is usable again! 

I have a HP Ultraslim docking station for my HP Elitebook Folio 9470m ultrabook. The connection to the external monitor and the network works fine - but I cannot seem to plug in any peripherals into the USB ports on the docking station 

My buddy is using TotalCommander as his file manager and program launcher, and I was wondering if there's any way to create a program launch button that will start up Visual Studio as an admin? When I create a shortcut on my Win7 desktop, there's a setting in the Advanced options to launch Visual Studio as an admin. How can I do the same in TotalCommander?? Has someone figured that out yet?? 

I've followed the import instructions. After importing I can see the Sent folder, which seems to contain all the messages it should, but at the top-level is empty and none of the other messages are in there. 

Installing the MyTALK software allows up to two bluetooth sources to pair with a Jambox simultaneously. Once installed, Jambox settings can be modified from a computer via USB. Under the menu previously paired bluetooth devices can be deleted but a pairing precedence cannot be set. The device will pair with the most recently paired devices. 

It's happening because one of the columns in my Gantt chart has a long title and I'd squeezed the column width to be very small. (See the title and width of box in screenshot below). The dialogue for that column had box checked, which was causing the header height to grow, even though the text wasn't visible regardless of height. 

The peripherals work just fine when I plug them directly into the ultrabook - but that kinda defeats the purpose of having a docking station! Any ideas? Thoughts? Similar experiences? Anything I can check, set, configure to make those USB ports recognize my peripherals? 

Some crapware has installed itself into my system and has "infected" all my browsers. I've been able to reset all the home pages and search providers to what I want - but in Firefox (v22), I'm still struggling with one point: whenever I open a new tab, that crapware site gets loaded - which I DO NOT want. But how and where can I undo this damage? I haven't found anything just yet.... I did find a number of items on the Mozilla support site talking about the page - but that's not what seems to be causing this site to load in every single new tab that I'm opening. Where else in Firefox can I define what site gets loaded on a new tab? I gone back and forth through all the configuration dialogs, checked the extensions etc - it's not there. I've removed all mentions of that crap site from my registry - so it shouldn't be there, either. Where else could that crap URL be hiding and be pulled from for each new tab??