It makes the log file reusable so that other transactions can use it or as per Brent's analogy someone else can use the drawers to keep there stuff. After going through the answer I strongly recommend you to read about transaction log on SQLSKILLS.com 

These blogs would help you in understanding how to use DBCC IND to get various information from database and how to interpret the result. 

I don't know from where you got this idea, min server memory has no role here don't touch it. Its OS which is facing memory pressure here NOT the SQL Server. 

Yes of course it will create a transaction log backup file. backup job has nothing to do with whether any activity is going inside database or not. Even if DB is idle with almost nothing going inside it still if you have schedules log backup it will execute. You should not skip any files because log backups are connected with each other using LSN( its really difficult to know when actually server is idle like pointed by Kin that you might be able to skip log backup) and if you miss a log backup file restore sequence will break. So you need to make sure you have all trn log backup files intact for restore as per RPO and RTO. If you miss log file backup there could be limited restore and hence data loss. For second part of question. You can anytime follow the restore sequence like first restore full backup then all subsequent log backups. If transaction is committed before backup finished it would be there in backup files. 

With confirmation from Pix(from Chat) the correct way to remove cumulative update is to use instead of using . The way to remove updates is documented in Installing Updates from Command Prompt. The script would be 

If you are running on standard edition there is not much way around and you would have to believe that mirroring is doing its task. Instead of worrying whether data is being sent on mirror or not or whether changes are reflecting you must monitor SEND queue and REDO queue using GUI In this case. The size of the SEND queue shows how much transaction log has been generated on the principal server, but hasn’t yet been sent to the mirror server. If it’s not zero, it means the mirroring state isn’t synchronized. Furthermore, the size of the SEND queue indicates the amount of data loss that will occur if the principal database suffers a disaster. If you find the REDO queue size growing, this implies the mirror server can’t keep up with the amount of log being sent from the principal server. It could be there’s additional workload on the mirror server that’s preventing the mirror database log from replaying as fast as possible. It may also be the physical hardware on the mirror server isn’t as capable as that on the principal server. The REDO queue size shows how much transaction log exists in the mirror database that hasn’t yet been replayed on the mirror database. These two will help you know how much behind principal is from mirror server. Read this Alternatively you can failover principal to mirror but make sure before failover that mirror is fully synchronized with principal to avoid any data loss.(if possible or when you have maintenance window) to check the status of mirror server. IMO failover is best way here to determine and prove that changes are actually getting reflected if you need to show for some audit purpose with screenshots. 

The theory is all fine and good, but it only starts to really make sense once you understand the practice. The Lawyer's version of the first three Normal Forms is: 

which allows the easy conversion from Calendar YTD values to non-Calendar YTD values. However the table is a derived table, meaning that it must be maintained as new years are instantiated. I would like to replace it with an Indexed View to eliminate the need for this maintenance. I have proved the equivalence of the select above with that below, using a NUMBERS table, which is precise and deterministic and uses no sub-queries or APPLY operators, allowing it to be the definition of an Indexed View: 

I am with your teacher here. I cannot see any difference in degree of Normalization between the two solutions, but you are embedding aspects of a particular implementation presentation (Two views of what is often referred to as the External or Logical Schema.) into the core data structures. When performing the initial database design (of the Conceptual Schema) it is preferred to hide as much as possible both of the external presentations and of the physical table design. Once the Conceptual Schema has been designed (and fully normalized), then one would determine the best way to present the Logical views of that structure to external applications, and the optimal physical assignment of columns to tables (the Physical Schema) to maximize performance. Your proposal is pushing subtle choices of Physical and External design into the Conceptual Schema inappropriately. It appears to me that your teacher is having difficulty explaining that your proposal might be a valid physical database design, later, given certain assumptions, and accurately reflects the External views as currently implemented, but fails to meet the needs of a Conceptual Schema that maximizes normalization with minimal clutter. A key observations is that whenever two tables (entities) have the same Primary Key, then even if the normalization is the same the clutter has been increased. There will always be many ways to clutter a clean (Conceptual Schema) design, but this clutter can always be eliminated from it. In a real world database design with hundreds or even thousands of tables minimizing clutter is an essential design attribute. 

In EXCEL, from the Data ribbon, Get External Data tab, select From Other Data Sources -> From SQL Server. Follow the wizard to connect to your server and create a query. 

It's a Multi-Level Marketing system! Jeff Moden has written a a pair of articles here and here on efficient implementation of Hierarchical Reporting against a SQL Server database. There are a number of ways to store the hierarchical information but the two main ones are Adjacency List (each child has a parent foreign key) and Nested Sets (each parent stores details of its child hierarchy). Adjacency List is more intuitive and faster to update, while Nested Sets provides faster reporting. Jeff has explained this topic far better than I can, and developed efficient SQL Server algorithms for converting an large Adjacency List tree into a Nested Set representation, 

This would generate corrupt backup of database now restore this backup file using continue after clause normal restore wont be possible see TSQL Restore for restore command. After above is done run checkdb within transaction like below on above restored database. 

But note the above commands . That is what you are experiencing. After running above query you can change SQL Server max server memory to lower value( may be 4-5G in your case) this WILL force SQL Server processes to release memory and thus bring down memory consumption again I am suggesting this as machine in picture is DEV machine. Changing max server memory does not requires restart. The other thing is restarting SQL Server service this will definitely clear caches and memory held by SQL Server process would be released. But after you restart SQL Server, it might, after some time take back all memory. 

Can you also upload complete output on some shared location and post the link here. This would help in understanding what component is taking memory Edit: As per dbcc memorystatus output i can see 2 NUMA nodes and memory utilized by each node is approx 

2.Take frequent transaction log backup specially after the above delete comand completes. You have to ultimately balance the number of records which can be deleted without inflating transaction log much. Even if recovery model is simple the logging behavior is not going to change much logs will be produces. A checkpoint statement would help you make sure logs are getting truncated automatically after transaction completes 

A listener is specific to Instance of AG so you cannot connect to multiple AG's using one listener. If you have multiple instances you have to use multiple AG's. How do you think a single listener will manager multiple AG's now how will it know which AG to connect ? 

Now this means that registry is inconsistent and ACL checks cannot be performed. In that case we have to manually provide access. 

PLE shows for how long page remain in buffer pool. The longer it stays the better it is. Its common misconception to take 300 as a baseline for PLE. But it is not,I read it from Jonathan Kehayias book( troubleshooting SQL Server) that this value was baseline when SQL Server was of 2000 version and max RAM one could see was from 4-6 G. Now with 200G or RAM coming into picture this value is not correct. He also gave the formula( tentative) how to calculate it. Take the base counter value of 300 presented by most resources, and then determine a multiple of this value based on the configured buffer cache size, which is the 'max server memory' sp_ configure option in SQL Server, divided by 4 GB. So, for a server with 32 GB allocated to the buffer pool, the PLE value should be at least (32/4)*300 = 2400. So far this has done good to me so I would recommend you to use it. 

The SQL value null represents the absence of data, so when you pivot and a cell as no data a null will perforce be generated as the cell value. It is your responsibility as the programmer to coalesce the null to whatever domain value is appropriate for missing data, when that makes sense. 

in your inner WHERE clauses is non SARG-able, so no index can be used. Change both occurrences as shown below, to make this term SARG-able: 

(Please forgive the SQL Server test case - the problem is common to all SQL implementations because that of common semantics mandated by the SQL Standard.) Even though you have used a LEFT OUTER JOIN, the semantics of SQL can convert this to an implied INNER JOIN if you improperly put constant-test conditions in a WHERE clause instead of the JOIN clause. The example below ilustrates this. Preliminaries to create test data: 

A Non-Clustered Index on the child table by ParentID and TypeID will cover the subquery. An Indexed View on the subquery is possible also. 

Every user in the system will immediately start seeing the three default bookmarks, personal copies of which they can then edit as they see fit. 

No, it's not acceptable to have circular foreign key references. Not only because it would be impossible to insert data without constantly dropping and recreating the constraint. but because it is a fundamentally flawed model of any and every domain I can think of. In your example I cannot think of any domain in which the relationship between Account and Contact is not N-N, requiring a junction table with FK references back to both Account and Contact. 

Index width would be degraded significantly with your proposal. Just how do you propose to manage all those random 2-digit integers to enforce uniqueness. Have you thought of how much code would have to be written and maintained to implement this scheme. Won't typing all those key fields in for every join in the implementation be a joy. 

None of these requirements for 1NF is violated by the design you propose. For instance a Junction Table created to normalize a many-to-many relationship will always have a composite Primary Key, with each component being also a Foreign Key into one of the joined tables. 

Note that the single clustered index on the view is identical to the (one and only) clustered index on the original table. However, several queries running against the Indexed View run slower (averaging about 3*, ranging up to about 6*, slower) than against the original table. Does anyone know why this could happen? Is it a possible bug in the Engine to not treat two identical clustered indices identically? My test data currently covers only two periods, one year apart. I initially thought it might be due to the columns of the view being nullable, but using isnull to coalesce them simply makes the queries so slow I can't even measure the performance. I am on SQL Server 2014: 

+ Max worker threads * 2MB + Memory for direct Windows allocations approximately 0 to 300 MB in most of the cases but you may have to increase it if there are many 3 party components loaded in SQL Server process (Including linked server dll’s, 3rd party backup dll’s etc.) + If you are using CLR extensively add some additional memory for CLR. Consider the memory requirement by jobs (Including replication agents, Log shipping etc. ) and packages that will run on the server. It can very from MB's to GB's according to number of jobs running. For medium sized server you can take it as 250 MB Make sure there is good enough free space for operating system. Approximately (100 MB for each GB till 4G) + (50 MB for each additional GB till 12GB) + (25 MB for each additional GB till your RAM size) Other memory requirements. If you have any other memory requirement specific to your environment. Max server memory= Total physical memory – (1+2+3+4+5+6+7) I have not included memory configuration for SSIS.SSRS,SSAS you would also need to subtract memory required by these services from total physical server memory. After you have configured above you need to monitor following counters 

I guess previous users were taking file system backup which in my opinion is not best practice when you have important app running. You can never get point in time recovery. Your thinking is correct about creating a maintenance plan backup it gives you more control on backup. Plus if you don't want point in time recovery you can put database in simple recovery mode and can just have full and differential backups as per RPO and RTO. This would avoid the hassle of transaction log file backup and unnecessary growth of log file 

NO, SQL Server would not do it immediately. Rebuilding indexes does lot of page movements and so does stats update. There is quite a chance that pages already present in memory, before index operation, would have been thrown back to disk. Now when you run the query again SQL Server optimizer will prepare new plan looking at new statistics and would request I/O to bring pages into memory which were thrown back to disk. 

Go with standard edition 64 bit and yes you would also need 64 bit OS for that. 32 bit server these days have lots of performance restriction especially in terms of memory and VAS. 64 bit will have 8 TB VAS and enough memory to support. 32 bit server is kind of outdated now ( unless you have grave requirement)