This annoyed us too. Guess what - it's in Sharepoint 2010. Good old Microsoft. Always holding back features so the next upgrade is compelling. 

As you can see there is no specific config applied to each port channel. When I connect everything up using this configuration, I get no communication between the two switches. Output of show spanning-tree follows: Switch A - Dell 6248 

My ESX hosts each have 8 NICS. I have set up 2 NICs for our iSCSI SAN - each is connected to a different SAN switch. 2 NICs are set up for vMotion and Service Console - these are each connected to a different core switch (ports are trunked with VLANs dedicated to vMotion and Management) I now have four ports left over. Currently we have these set up each going into our default VLAN. Two NICs are connected to one core-switch and two are connected to the other. We decided to aggregate the connections to each switch - so they are teamed at the vswitch end, and port channelled at the physical switch end. I am now reading that port channelling these connections is not particularly useful, perhaps even over complicating things. Is there a particular problem with using port channels for VMware? What method provides the best balance between redundancy and performance? 

If it is a VM, then start with 512Mb of RAM and increase if it turns out to be too little. If it is a physical machine, then it depends how much memory the server will take, and your budget. I'd be tempted to say max out the server capacity, or as much as you can afford. Memory is relatively cheap, compared to downing your intranet to increase RAM. Can't really say more without more specific details. 

This will show you the features you currently have licensed. VPN-3DES-AES is what you are looking for. You should have it unless you specifically asked for an ASA without it, or you bricked your ASA and recovered it, losing the license details. You can request an upgrade to 3DES for free as Shane said, but if you bricked your ASA and recovered, you probably want to contact Cisco or your reseller to get the license key back in case you lost some other features too. 

I've seen discussion of this being caused when using a non-standard kernel without the correct CONFIG_AUDIT and CONFIG_AUDITSYSCALL options set. Where this is the case, it is advised to comment out some lines in the pam.d config files. I am running a Virtual Private Server where I need to use the kernel provided by the supplier. Is there a way to find out what options they used to configure the kernel? I want to verify if the above is the cause. If this turns out not to be the cause, what are the risk of disabling pam_loginuid for crond and sshd? 

I look after a bunch of remote offices that connect via VPN - a Cisco ASA 5505 in each office acts as Firewall and VPN end point. Beyond that we keep things as simple as possible in the offices to minimise the support burden. We don't have any kind of server except in offices large enough to justify having someone dedicated to IT. Basically there is the ASA, some computers, a network printer and a switch. One of the problems I am seeing in a lot of offices is that DNS requests looking up hosts inside our network often fail - I'm assuming timeouts due to the offices internet connection (they are all in developing world countries) having some sub-optimal qualities (e.g. high latency caused by VSAT segments, or packet loss. The obvious solution to this is to have some sort of local DNS service that can serve local requests - so I think it would need to do zone transfers from our Microsoft Windows 2008 R2 DNS servers at HQ. However, simply installing Windows Servers in each office is both expensive, and creates a support burden. This got me thinking about pfsense/m0n0wall on embedded devices - those can act as a DNS server, and could be configured at HQ and sent out as just something that needs to be plugged into the network and can then be forgotten about by the staff locally. Maybe there are some alternatives to the ASA 5505 that include some DNS functionality. Has anyone here dealt with the problem, either using some kind of embedded device, or found some other solution? Any gotchas or reasons to avoid what I have suggested? 

So you are trying to block all IPs that try to login as root? I would imagine most non-targeted hacking attempts will first try logging in as root then try enough non-existent accounts to get the IP banned. If this isn't the case maybe you should change your approach. I think a better option than locking root altogether would be to disable external login as root through sshd's config. That may result in attempts to login as root triggering a security message that fail2ban can use. 

This is also logged in the Appication Windows log as an Unhandled Exception for the .Net app. Both the developer and I suspect this is related to the Security Settings on the server. The account in question is already added to the Allow log on locally and Log on as a batch job. There are SO many options, millions of permutations, that it will take ages to figure out what is correct. If I set the account as a Domain Admin then it works, but I don't like just setting things to the equivalent of root rather than figuring out the appropriate security level. Does anyone recognise this specific issue, or have any pointers for how to figure out which security settings need changing? 

With the Z1 you could create two VLANs - one connected to the VPN and the other not. You would then create SSIDs that connect devices to each of these LANS. You could designate certain ports VPN ports, and others not, and instruct employees to connect company devices to the company SSID or ports, and their own devices to to the other SSID and ports. Unfortunately the Z1 doesn't currently support enforcing this through MAC addresses or their new Systems Manager Sentry, both of which would be quite simple. You could potentially use RADIUS authentication to permit wired and wireless access to the company VLAN/SSID - but the RADIUS server will be the other side of an internet connection. I think that's your best bet. 

When a web server receives a request ending in a / it will serve the default page as in the configuration or default. You can configure this in an .htaccess file or in the core config for Apache, using the DirectoryIndex directive. There is also a directive DirectorySlash that specifies whether to serve the index file when requesting a directory name. If you turn this off then you may see an autoindex page instead. Apache recommend that you don't turn this off without a good reason. To be on the safe side, always include the trailing / or link specifically to the intended index file for the directory. If you are using a different web server, please update your question. 

Short answer - you are already using a paid DNS host - the cost is just hidden within the domain registration service. GoDaddy are hosting your DNS records as part of the registration service. EasyDNS will do the same thing for you - i.e. register a domain name for you, and provide DNS services, as will all the competition. If you don't know why you would want one provider over another, then the only thing that probably matters is the price you paid for the domain name. DynDNS provide additional services which allow you to use your domain name with a dynamic IP address - e.g. your ISP doesn't give you a static IP address. Again, if you don't know you need this, then you probably don't. 

Wireshark seems overkill if you are just testing the network. would work, at its simplest just running a set number of pings during your test and then analysing the results, or going a bit futher writing a small programme that runs the test on a schedule and then saves the data into a CSV file. You could run this between any two nodes on your network you want to test latency between. If you are looking for total latency for the programme then you will need something different. I wouldn't trust wireshark and synced clocks to test this, since you will be looking for milisecond differences that may not show up accurately between two different hosts on the same network. 

I don't believe that there is any significant bandwidth. EasyVPN just works more like a client side VPN with a remote box requesting an IPSEC tunnel with a central client, whereas with Site 2 Site either side can initiate the connection. Otherwise both are exactly the same. Maybe your previous config had a problem, and could only be initiated by the central hib, and the central hub didn't need to set up connections, wheras now you are responding effectively to the demand from your remote sites. 

DHCP requests are limited to a broadcast domain - i.e. subnets delimited by routers, unless you have something like IP helper setup on the router. So using some kind of network level discovery method, you will never know for sure if you got them all, unless you connect to every subnet. You could use Wireshark or Network Monitor to view the network traffic in each of your broadcast domains - every DHCP server in a broadcast domain should respond to a DHCP request, even though the client will only handle the first response it recieves. 

However, I've since got things working by killing the process and starting afresh, as suggested by @Henry below, so perhaps I am no longer seeing the same thing. Will try again if I am seeing the issue again after next reboot. Update - 14 March Monit alerted me that sshd had disappeared, and again I am able to ssh onto the server. So now I can run the script 

Something like Nagios (which has thousands of user contributed checks) is probably your best bet, although Nagios can take a long time to set up. I've had a good experience with Groundwork OpenSource, which is basically Nagios with a config web GUI, then added additional checks from Monitoring Forge. All these checks are basically written in PERL or some other scripting language, and can be adapted for use fairly easily if you don't need the web front end or notifications of something like Zabbix or Nagios. Groundworks includes a lot of WMI based checks as well, which is better suited to Windows monitoring. 

I am seeing the 1030 and 1058 errors for a remote Windows Server 2003 domain controller. Specifically the 1058 error says: 

Road signs when explaining network routing. A router is like a crossroads, and the routing table is like a road sign telling you which way to go to get to somewhere (an IP address). Sometimes you get to a crossroads, and there is no road sign for your destination. So you should just go straight through (default route). Sometimes there should have been a sign to your destination, but there isn't so you just head straight through and never get there... 

You need to find out about the functions of your HQ end equipment (the DrayTec) and then what hardware is compatible to act as the other end of a link. I can't speak directly to your DrayTec, but I use Cisco ASA, and that has the option of doing traditional Site to Site links where you need a static IP address and specific configuration at each end. It also has a Client type mode called EasyVPN where you don't need a static IP address at the remote end - you configure the remote with the IP address of the central device, and then put in credentials. The remote device can then connect from any internet connection, and provide access to the VPN to a LAN behind it. This works very well for us. Maybe DrayTec have a similar option. 

By default, when trying to send an email, Ubuntu will look up the MX record for the address domain, and try and send directly to that. You have two options: 

You could use VMware Converter to export the whole VM as a single OVA file, which can then be sent to the client. You need to think carefully about things like licensing and license keys, server naming, and joining the server to a domain on the clients network. I am sure this sort of thing will become quite common in future, and those things should become simpler - right now you need to talk in depth with your client and agree the details. 

I have a requirement to send a notification to an external email address whenever a message that meets certain criteria appears in a users mailbox. This is similar to sending an auto-reply, but always sending a specific message (not forwarding the original message) to the external email address, not the sender. I can't quite figure out how to do this in Exchange 2003/Outlook 2003. It has to be a server side rule that does not require the Exchange mailbox user is logged in. 

I know that each of these things needs to be appropriately rated for the equipment to which it is connected (although I am not sure how to calculate the correct rating). The offices will generally have the following equipment (in varying quantities): 

You are on the right track. I've used the method detailed on the page you link to, and detailed exactly how on my blog. It works for me using PuTTY from a windows box, and also SSH from one CentOS server to another. If it isn't working for you, and you are sure you got the syntax correct, it could be down to your SSH client. 

You'll get faster response for web surfing and reduce your network traffic if you set up a local DNS server, even if you only use it as a proxy DNS server (e.g. all your client machines do their lookups to your local DNS server, which then does the lookups on the public/ISP DNS of your choice, and then caches the answers). Why will you get faster response? Ping a host on your 10/100/1000 Mbit network, and compare the result to pinging a public DNS server over your 1/2/8/10 Mbit internet connection. My guess is that you will benefit immediately from a local DNS infrastructure which won't cost you all that much. If you also use it for local hostname resolution, then you'll benefit from easier to remember, meaningful hostnames for the hosts on your network. 

It isn't a bad decision, if you know why you did it, and understand what you have done. Just by changing the third octet does not mean that each IP address is in a different subnet - the subnet for each individual host matters! So if each of your IP videocameras had subnets of 255.255.255.0, they would all be on different subnets, and require routing (not necesarily separate routers) to talk to other subnets, including the "parent" one. However, you could create a route to all of them using the 10.10.0.0/255.255.0.0 subnet, if that was appropriate. Doing things in that way can be beneficial as it means the routing tables are smaller, using less memory on your routers. However, it can also be confusing to inexperienced network admins - there seem to be plenty around that don't really understand subnets. It might be wiser to create smaller subnets, as I doubt you'll ever actually be deploying the 65,534 possible hosts you could have on the 10.10.0.0/255.255.0.0 subnet. Getting subnet design right before you start deploying anything is a good idea - once things are out there in large numbers it is a bigger task to fix mistakes! Measure many times, cut once! Read up on subnet design. 

Chances are that the other company gets as much of your email as you get of theirs (or more, since they have the .com which people are more likely to use in error), so you should probably get in touch with their postmaster, as you may be able to come up with a solution between you - e.g. an autoresponder that notifies senders of the distinction. Longer term though, you probably want a more distinct domain name, especially if the other company does something similar to you. That is more of a branding/management decision. At least if you talk to the other people you may be able to inform those responsible for branding how much potential business you might be using. 

Check to see whether your co-location provider has any VPN options you can use to create a tunnel to the network all your servers are on. Well worth it. If they don't and if you have any spare Us, consider putting a Cisco ASA 5505 or other cheap firewall at each end to join networks together. Hardware firewall is well worth the money, and if you have more than one server at the colo it will quickly pay for itself in terms of time spent configuring and troubleshooting VPN on every one of the servers. Since you said the server "runs all your stuff" I think a hardware VPN device is going to serve you better in the long run. 

This is one of those situations when you doing your job disrupts someone else doing theirs and vice versa. Sure you could burn many hours trying to figure out a technical solution, but talking to each other and finding a suitable time will be cheaper and more easy to sustain in future. If they really need zero downtime, then you need to know so you can invest in that, since there may also be costs related to unplanned outages that are unacceptable. If they aren't bothered about that, then they should not be demanding you don't do your job!