Make sure the user that apache is running as has permission to access /var/www Hope that helps, RayQuang 

I am planning to set up a Tech startup company that will provide web application solutions. Eventually we hope to diversify into different areas such as possibly social media or other services. For now we plan on running a high demand (from 1000 to 10,000 users in the first year) website running the application. This includes a MySQL database backend, email, and development servers. My question is then, what type of server arrangement will work best, that is ti say should i have a small cluster of ultra high power machines (E.G. Top of the range Xeons, with 12GB RAM) or will it be better to have more less powerful servers load balanced? Should I go for 1 - 2 u servers rack mounted ot would it be beter for it just to be tower servers for maintainability? Finally I would also like to know what kind of Internet and router i would need, I currently have 10mbit down and barely 1 mbit up, but soon our area will have a fiber optic connection with international speeds of up to 25 mbit / sec. Thanks in advance, RayQuang UPDATE: sorry I forgot to mention it, the platform that I will be using is PHP with the APC code cache, Probably running Debian. 

If I were you I would seriously consider using something like the the iptables firewall generator to make your rules, I spend two days trying to use iptables as a router and after using this site i got it working in 5 mins. Heres the link: $URL$ Hope that helps, RayQuang 

But that was not successful and it said failed to bring up interface. And suggestions would be greatly appreciated :) 

i would highly recommend using a CDN along with a reverse proxy to reduce the load on your server. For the CDN you should use it to: Host commonly fetched files such as imeges, static html, Javascript. A good choice would be Amazon AWS. And then use a reverse squid proxy to cache the requests to your server. Only use your server to send back dynamic data. you could possibly load this data through javascript to lighten the load. Hope that helps, RayQuang 

If I were doing offsite backups i would choose the following options: (a) shell script that does SCP copy to remote server, This way you could add a cron job that automatically runs the script that creates the backup. Additionally you can make it so that it creates a temporary archive file before actually transferring the files thereby saving bandwidth by not transferring while sill gziping. or (b) Install a server management tool like Webmin and get that to do automated backups. I am currently sing this on my production servers right now without any problems, It just works flawlessly. I would also recommend cloudmin (paid) for managing many vm's as it provides an all in one solution. some extra links: $URL$ $URL$ Hope that helps, RayQuang 

My question is. How much will this delay incoming outgoing requests / file transfers. thanks, RayQuang 

Firstly i would like to point out that you have not installed a webserver on your "localhost" but rather on your computer as the term "localhost" or 127.0.0.1 merely refers to the current computer on the loopback interface. Getting to your question, I do not believe that this is a UDP data transfer as ningx would send the file over a HTTP session, which in turn uses TCP. I would like to point out that UDP is very unreliable as it does not make sure the packets are transmitted in order, There is no verification if all the packets sent have been received and is usually only used to transmit small amounts of information. Common uses of UDP are for DHCP (Dynamic host configuration protocol), RIP (Routing information protocol), SNMP (Simple network management protocol) and DNS (Domain name service). As you can see these protocols do not usually transmit a lot of information i.e. a DNS request: Dig rayquang.com: 

This gives me a working connection, however I'm not sure how to configure several like these on a single NIC so I can use multiple external IP's. I have tried aliasing the VLAN's like so: 

The first thing I would like to ask is what kind of websites are you hosting? If its a small personal or corporate website that doesn't have many visitors, then don't worry about a little bot of downtime, or get a reliable hosting provider. If you would really like to have a page then you could use a reverse proxy server to redirect the user while the web server is down. Hope that helps, RayQuang 

I have just set up my new gigabit network and when I was about to increase the MTU to use jumbo frames, I get this error: 

I'm trying to setup multiple virtual interfaces with VLAN's on a single NIC. I'm running Debian Squeeze. Currently this is my 

I would definitely recommend NOT getting a NAS, as they are not only expensive but can be easily recreated by using an old or low cost computer running a light linux distro such as freenas or if you want a full distro like Debian. This enables you to do a lot more with your NAS such as running a web server, mail server, router for your network, caching proxy etc. I myself have a server running at home and use that as a shared storage space. If you are familiar with linux i would highly recommend this, but if you are looking for a simple solution then you might want an off the shelf NAS. I hope this has helped, RayQuang 

I would like to know if introducing a new gateway in my network will slow things down. The question may sound unclear but here is an illustration: Before Installing gateway server 

I recently copied a file as the root user to my users's home directory. Ever since that my user has not been able to go to its home directory because "permission is denied". I have already chowned the directory so that it is owned by the user but still i'm getting the error. (OS: Debian Lenny) Can canyone help? RayQuang 

I have just been running aptitude update on my debian server via webmin when the install failed, Now my Apache2 server isn't running properly as it isn't recognizing the "namevirtualhost" directive, all the domains hosted on the server are being redirected to the default server. Luckily the other services like Postfix and Dovecot are fine. What should I do to fix this problem? Thanks, RayQuang Update 1: The only errors that I receive when restarting apache are: 

hI, I am trying to install the terminal multiplexer tmux on my Debian Lenny server so that I can have multiple terminals through ssh. However I have had a lot of difficulty installing it from the debian package, and by compiling it. When I try the package it says something about the wrong version of libc6, and when I compile it I get the following error: 

Personally I would recommend something like Ubuntu server, or Debian if you're comfortable with it. For a web administration interface if you need it, look at webmin. Thanks, RayQuang 

We have fiber optic internet coming to our office soon, and i would like to know if it would be worth installing fiber NIC's in our servers and machines instead of using cat6 gigabit. Here is the layout: (fiber) cable from distribution point in basement -> fiber optic modem -> Network gateway (debian lenny) -> network computers and servers I was wondering if it would be worth installing a fiber connection from the modem to the gateway and the network clients. Will the costs be worth it in terms of speed, latency and stability? Thanks, RayQuang 

I would highly recommend reading Oreilly's Beautiful Architectures (More focused on the actual programs that will be running) and Cloud Application Architectures (more focused on the system itself) . Here are the links: $URL$ $URL$ Hope that helps, RayQuang