I'm attempting to follow the guide on the Ubuntu wiki for installing and setting up Kerberos. I am running Ubuntu 14.04 (LTS) 64-bit. I have setup avahi-daemon in order to provide .local DNS names. I have then run: 

I then tried putting in the 4 x 4GB sticks all on one CPU - A1, A2, A3 and A4. With the 2 x 8GB sticks on B1, B2. However, it then complained about: 

The dialog asks me for a realm, as well as the hostname of the server, both of which I enter. However, it then seems to hit an error: 

We have two office locations, A and B. We have two ADSL2+ lines at both A and B, as well as a switch at both sites. At site A, the ADSL2+ line is plugged into a system running pfSense 2.x, that's currently acting as a router/firewall for the computers at site A. We have a single Ethernet cable linking site A to site B. We'd like to use the ADSL2+ line at site B with the pfSense box as a redundant-failover dual-WAN. I can do this by using the Ethernet cable between the two to connect the ADSL2+ modem at site B back to the second WAN port on the pfsense box at site A. However, we also need to connect the switch at site B back to the pfSense box as well. Yet we only have one Ethernet cable. What are some options that would let me connect the site B modem back to site A, and also connect the LAN at site B back to site A as well? Would some kind of tagging work? Or are there other alternatives? Cheers, Victor 

On the front indicator panel of the drive, there is a steady amber light (i.e. critical failure). I have a SATA-to-USB adapter, I know the physical adapter is the same for SAS, but I'm guessing this won't actually work for connecting to a SAS drive. From a quick search, it seems I'd need to get an enclosure and an external HBA. I'm wondering, what are the chances of any data recovery at this stage? My understanding is that in general enterprise drives are more prone to simply reporting as fatal, rather than returning possibly corrupt data. Would we be able to get any data at all from the failed drive? And if we can't, I suppose, with the striping, depending on the stripe size would you be able to get small chunks? 

It seems to be waiting at that point for quite some time. I thought of using vnc to connect to the box to see what's going on. Even though I've used , my understanding is that the VNC display should still get created by default. However, this is the output of : 

I have a FreeNAS server setup at my parents place. It was previously running FreeNAS Coral. This had a single ZFS volume called 'datastore'. It's a RAIDZ-1 volume, comprised of 4 x Toshiba 5TB disks. For some reason, that installation seems to have borked itself. Anyhow, I re-installed the boot USB with the latest FreeNAS 11 and booted up. I then went through the wizard to import my old ZFS volume. It seemed to import the volume fine - the GUI also prompted me to update the ZFS pool version, which I did. However, I now notice that I seem to be missing several ZFS volumes - yet no errors are being reported. Output of : 

I have a system that was recently reformatted/reinstalled. However, somebody forgot to check the backups...sigh. Backup drive is a write-off (faked flash drive capacity) Anyhow, there were two partitions on the harddisk that we're concerned about, one NTFS 30Gb, and one BTRFS 30Gb. I assume the BTRFS partition is a write-off, since there's no few recovery tools for BTRFS. With the NTFS drive, the original partition was formatted (in the Windows 7 installer), and Windows installed on top, so the first 15Gb are essentially gone. I've just made a image of the partition as it currently stands, using dcfldd. I assume that's enough to do a recovery from, as opposed to the whole drive, since I just did a reformat, and re-used the same partition? Any advice on particular tools to re-enact the recovery? Basically, I'd like to scrub it for any files at all that I can pull. Opensource tool that work under *nix are preferred, but quite frankly, right now, I'll take anything...lol. Thanks, Victor 

We have a HP DL360 server with a P400 controller, which has two 72GB 10K SAS drives in a RAID 0 configuration (yes, I know...RAID 0). The HP Model number for the drives is DG072A8B54 Recently, one of the two drives appear to have failed, and is no longer detected. In the HP iLO console, we see: 

I have a Ubuntu 14.10 (x64) host, and I am using KVM to setup a Windows 2012 R2 guest VM on it. I am using the command to set things up. I have setup a bridge network in as follows: 

It repeats each line in dummy_logfile near instantaneously. So it looks like reading the NFS share is delayed, but cat reading over the NFS share is not. I was under the impression that was near-instant. Is there anything in the interaction of NFS, buffers, cache, etc. that might explain this behaviour? Does each cat somehow force an update or something? Also, doing a on Alice (the server generating the dummy_logfile) seems to be near-instant, so it doesn't appear to be some issue with itself. Cheers, Victor 

I've noticed that there appears to be a delay of ~ 3 seconds for Bob seeing events. The tail -f will echo a logline, then pauses for around 3 seconds, then it spits out 3 seconds worth of log lines, then another 3 seconds of nothing, then outputs another set etc. However, if on Bob I do: 

The site seems to go longer than before, but still dies. Checking the list of processes, I have (third column is physical mem, fourth column is virtual size): 

However, this didn't do anything - and from the port 631 - is this just for the CUPS control interface anyhow? (which actually worked via ZeroTier even without this line). Is there some other config that controls how IPP works via CUP? 

We have two Solaris servers, let's call them Alice and Bob. We also have a Solaris NFS server used by both of them, call it Charlie. Alice writes to a text logfile on the NFS server, which is then read by Bob, who acts on events in that logfile. The issue we're having is that there appears to be some delay in Bob seeing updates to the file from Alice. For testing, I ran on Alice: 

I tried putting in the 4 x 4GB sticks in A1, A2, B1, B2 and the 2 x 8GB sticks in A3, B3 - but it complained: 

Is there an easy way to find out what exactly is going on? My understanding of Apache's innards isn't that good, but I would have thought we wouldn't need this many concurrent processes to serve up a page like this, with this sort of traffic. We did inherit the app, so we don't know much about it's insides, but it's a fairly basic CMS-type site, showing a few search results, I didn't think it would need this sort of grunt. I did run ab against the site, I was getting a fairly lousy request rate (well under 50 a second), but that may have been my poor choice of settings - a lot of those requests seemed to fail. Where should I be looking for information on what's happening, or any troubleshooting tips I could try? Cheers, Victor 

However, according to my local DHCP server, that device hasn't tried to claim a DHCP lease yet. I am thinking this might be because of the network drive I've selected, and that Windows 2012 R2 doesn't support it out of the box. However, is there any way to still connect to the box? Also, are there any issues you can see in the way I'm setting up this guest? 

The only problem - there is no logfile. It seems the default doesn't actually have logging enabled. Anyhow, I add the following to it: 

I have an IoT device that communicates with a remote server via HTTPS over port 443. I would like to intercept the HTTP/HTTPS communication - e.g. using Charles or mitmproxy. If it was a desktop or Android device, I could setup the proxy's SSL certificate in the certificate store. However, this device doesn't really have any HTTP settings - so I'd need to setup a transparent proxy right? However, how do I get it to trust the SSL certificates presented by Charles/mitmproxy? Thanks, Victor 

I'm trying to install memory into a Dell R610 server, and am honestly at wit's end. The DIMMS I have are: 

I've just installed Solaris 11 Express, and I can't for the life of me work out how to get vim to backspace correctly. The backspace key works fine at the normal console. However, under vim, it simple goes back a character, but doesn't actually delete anything. I've tried , no luck. I've tried both the included system vim (/usr/bin/vim) and OpenCSW vim (/opt/csw/bin/vim). I've tried setting the TERM to "xterm" or "xterm-color", no change. I've pasted my termcap file here: $URL$ Any ideas? =( Cheers, Victor 

We have a moderate-traffic site (roughly 20,000 hits a day), running a PHP/MySQL app on Apache 2.2, Ubuntu 9.10 Server, from an Amazon EC2 c1.small instance (1.7 Gb of RAM). We had issues with the website repeatedly becoming unresponsive. As a dirty hack, I set the MaxClients/ServerLimit to 450. 

This just writes out the output from every second to a textfile, which is stored on the NFS server. On Bob, I do: 

There should be other volumes - e.g. "datastore/joo", or "datastore/photos" etc. Any ideas of what's going on? Could the pool version somehow have borked something? =(. The fact it reports 12 TB free is pretty worrying - but I am hoping the data is on the disks there somehow....any suggestions on getting to root cause, and/or recovering? $URL$ Update - output of : 

I have a Windows workstation that has established an SSH connection to a remote server using Putty. From that workstation, I can tunnel stuff through the SSH tunnel, including a HTTP proxy that is running on the SSH server I'm wondering, is it possible to enable other computers in the same subnet as the workstation to connection to that workstation, and use its SSH tunnel/HTTP proxy? I tried using the "Local ports accept connections from other hosts" option in Putty, but I still get a connection refused when I try to connect from other boxes to the Windows workstations. What is the proper way to configure this, so that I can share the HTTP proxy via SSH tunnel? Cheers, Victor 

I have an old IBM X345 server with a ServeRaid 5i card that I was running as a fileserver/test-server. It was running VMWare ESXi 3.5, with a virtualised OpenSolaris machine inside of this this (as well as other machines) with ZFS as the filesystem. Anyhow, recently, after a reboot, on startup, ServerRaid complains that two logical arrays are offline. I have six SCSI drives in the machine - four 147 Gb ones, and two 72 Gb ones. From memory, the first four drives are in one array/logical disk, and the fifth drive is in one of it's own. The sixth drive isn't used. Yes, this was running in RAID 0...shame on me, I know. I booted up the ServeRaid Support CD, and the first and fifth drive were marked as defunct. The first drive (147 Gb) was listed as defunct drive, I/O subsystem error, and the fifth drive (72 Gb) as defunct drive, physical drive not found. When I right-clicked, I did see an option to mark the drives as online again (I'm not exactly sure how this would work with the physical drive not found?), however, there was a warning about data loss if I proceeded. I'm assuming this wasn't the option I wanted to recover the disks. What exactly does the IO/Subsystem error mean? If I mark online will it blow away the disk? Also, on the Lightpath console on the server, I have an orange error light on the DASD. I'm guessing that's not such a good sign? Or is it? Could it just be the ServeRaid card? Cause if so, I can just replace that..sigh, really hoping it is. Anyhow, how exactly should I proceed going ahead? Is there any way to recover either of the defunct drives (io subsystem or physical drive not found) back to their initial state? Or can I somehow rebuild the data from the remaining drives? (I suppose I'd have a corrupted VMFS (VMWare Filesystem) after that, and then I'd have to rebuild that, and then rebuild the virtual disk images inside of that...?) Any recommendations on how to proceed? (And yes, some people are probably going to say...oh...just reformat, and use RAID1 next time...lol. Hoping for something a little more hopeful than that...haha). Thanks, Victor Ps: I've also made the Support Archive from ServeRaid available here: $URL$ (This is basically all the controller logs, and configuration information).