I am studying a Wireless subject and I have a random question where we have two floors each floor has a size of and WIFI specs are as follows, 

I need to find if I need two Wireless router or one to cover the entire two floors. Now I have calculated as But How can I calculate how much area would one Wireless router will cover ? I don't the answer i just need the guidance so I can calculate it myself and draw the graph. Can anyone please help me ? Thanks 

As can be seen in the above output, both and are sending updates to , but I don't have any network with this ip address. Beside that, is not showing any updates at all when i enabled debugging on it. Here is the output of command on , 

Any given network that serves the public probably has a few thousand instances of 192.168.1.0/24 attached to it at any given moment, so it works. It would be somewhat insane to do so deliberately on networks managed by one company, so I'm glad to hear you wouldn't. In the case you provide where you are connecting two private networks to a third private network, there will also be some potential lack-of-joy from "double NAT" if a connection to the outside world (public IP address) is contemplated - perhaps even triple NAT depending where you connect to. Best to avoid that, IME. After some lack of joy when setting up VPN, I have eliminated all instances of 192.168.0.0, 192.168.1.0, 192.168.2.0, 192.168.100.0, 10.0.0.0, 172.16.0.0 from any of my networks. Up until that point 192.168.1.0 was fine for many years, but having been through that, even networks I don't currently plan to connect to VPN get an address that's as non-default as I can manage, and none of them are the same. Picking a non-default section of the private address space greatly reduces issues when users are connecting from places that (nearly always) are using one of those defaults. 

I am new to networking, and currently studying about how router learn different routes. One of my lecture slides shows the following, First of all, please have a look at this network, 

I am trying to implement simple scenario of RIP using Packet Tracer, first of all here is the scenario. 

In the above diagram, I don't understand why the source and destination address are not encapsulated ? shouldn't they be changed to the router's address. Because if there is an eavesdropper at R0, he can easily see the destination of the packet. now at Outbound PDU, 

This seems very tenuous as far as being on topic. However. Simply build or buy a very well insulated box (rack case), and provide vents that can be opened, or closed, depending on temperatures inside and out - assist with fans as required. If the router is on all night and makes heat, sufficient insulation will be all that's required. Otherwise a basic ceramic heater and a thermostat. Be sure to check the devices specified operating temperature range, so that you are not heating the enclosure beyond what the device actually requires - many things are quite happy to be quite cold, so long as moisture is kept out of them. What type of insulation really does not matter - whatever is easy. Foam sheets, loose cellulose and a frame/box to contain it, etc. If you have a wifi antenna inside the box, don't use foil-faced insulation. Alternatively, take the thoroughly professional approach of dropping the cheapskate client. Edit, add: On the hot side, it will cost much less to run an air conditioner that cools the well-insulated box than to run one to cool a whole building, if it gets too hot for just fans to be effective. 

I am confused with what happens to the adddress when we are configuring in the router. I have the network with 253 hosts, , and I have configured in my network. Now, while configuring DHCP, I have excluded the first four IP address of the network using command, but I haven't excluded the address that I have used as a address in DHCP configuration, which is the last address of the network, i.e. . Now, I am confused that, since I didn't excluded that last ip address and point it to a will router try to lease that address ? If not, is it automatically excluded ? or do I have to exclude it myself to avoid any conflict ? EDIT: is pointing to another router where hosts are connected, and where is configured. I am using 1841 Router in Packet Tracer. 

It is better to be in the same channel as your interfering signals (if you can't find a free channel) rather than in overlapping channels that are not the same channel - if you are in a nearby channel, there is interference, but no communication. On the same channel, the spec requires some cordination to share the channel. Often your best actual bet is to run more wire, and place your APs at lower power nearer your end use devices. Using the 5GHz band is also very helpful as there are more non-overlapping channels in most of the world, and it does not penetrate walls so well, keeping neighboring signals out of your space (or at least greatly reducing them.) 

I don't know what am I missing. I read on other post that I was supposed to disable in each router which I have already did, and I have also clear the routing table after that but it is not working either. 

I have changed the packet tracer mode to simulation to test how ESP is working to encapsulate data when I access server from PC0. I accessed the webserver (192.168.2.3) from PC0 (192.168.1.2) and examine the packet at R0 and I got the following output, Inbound PDU, 

I know that is created in the routing table when interface is configured, and is created when an interface is active. Now, I tried the same scenario in Packet Tracer and here is what I got when i type command, 

I have a few 3Com Baseline 2824 SFP Plus gigabit switches, 3C16487. These are apparently also known as HP JE738A (after HP bought up 3Com) though mine are not badged that way. One does need to find this out to get any useful results from the HP website. The Management software they came with was 1.0.0.7 - I just got them updated to the latest I could find 1.0.1.1 though it felt like I was crawling through a cobwebby basement at HP's website to find that. The download file is a windows .exe self-extracting archive... Unfortunately, the new management software does not solve my biggest issue in using these switches many places - a terrible VLAN implementation, where ports are EITHER "desktop" and untagged and only on one VLAN, or they are "Uplink" and everything is tagged. I frequently have need of "this VLAN tagged and this VLAN not tagged" on a given port, so this limitation makes them far less useful than a Baseline 2948 I have that does manage the tagged/untagged concept – presumably a major difference between the 2800 and 2900 series. I suspect that's as good as they can manage, and I'll just have to find them homes where they can be "one step above a dumb switch," but I thought I'd ask if anyone knew otherwise, in case it turned out I was missing anything. Responding to comment: Is there any way (firmware version I have not located, etc.) to get a more modern approach to VLANs on this model of switch, where ports can be tagged or untagged on different VLANs, rather than this extremely limited approach to VLANs where certain ports are "uplinks" and all traffic is tagged, while other ports are "desktop", limited to one VLAN, and untagged only? 

Can anyone please tell me why my routers are not learning the correct routes to neighbouring networks, and sending updates to wrong addresses ?. I have no or anything else configured in any of the routers, just simple is configured. 

Even though, I have configured in each router, my routers still wouldn't learn any routes outside its own network. Here is the outputs of command for each router, R1, 

How come there are two different IP Packets, and why there is still un-encapsulated IP address in outbound packet. Can anyone please explain ? 

I am creating a scenario in Packet tracer where i have two routers, and i have established an IPsec tunnel between them using ESP protocol, as show below, 

Your understanding is generally good. There is one place (that I know of) where higher than standard power is/can be of some use - and that is where you are making a connection between two devices BOTH of which can run at higher than normal power. Of course, this also makes them more prone to interfere with other devices. In a rural environment where you have, for some reason, no cable/fiber between buildings, or getting fiber between buildings is on the plate but you need network before that, a dedicated pair wireless link (preferably with both ends also using horizontal polarization and directional antennas, so they interfere less with normal AP traffic that tends to be vertical polarized) can be of use. End-user computers would NOT be connecting to the link in this case. But. Fiber beats the heck out of that all day every day. It's a temporary expedient at best, IME; I have done both.