Actually if you had Windows Server 2008 I would install that one since you will get the IIS7 webserver and be able to install SQL Server 2005 or 2008 on it for your hobby based web development. Windows Home Server probably won't let you do those things since it's really designed as a home file server and backup service. Hope this helps some. 

If you're all using the same blog engine then you shoulld be able to export the posts and then import them back into a single instance of a blog. For example, you could take 4 WordPress blogs, export the posts from MySQL and then turn back around and import all four sets of posts back into a single WordPress blog. Now if you have different blog engines for your team, then you are going to have to manually massage the posts to make them work. Good luck and hope this helps some. 

You might want to take a look at TeraCopy which is a program designed to copy and move files at the maximum possible speed by dynamically adjusting buffers to reduce seek times. TeraCopy can also do asynchronous copying which speeds up file transfer between two physical hard drives. I have personally used this application and have found that it does speed up file transfers which usually would take some period of time to accomplish. Hope this helps some. 

You can try this: First select the lines that you want surrounded. Then goto: TextFX > TextFX Edit > Indent and surround {text line } I don't know if there is a short cut assigned by default for this, but I'm sure that you can make a quick macro if you need it. Hope this helps some. 

From my understanding, when Windows is looking for a user's folder, it goes under 'Document and Settings' and then looks for the logged in computer user's directory. It seems that your installation of Windows is looking directly at the folder rather than thinking it's under 'Document and Settings'. 

So I found the answer to this problem by doing a simple thing. I renamed the document to . Seems like the main issue for this problem came from have an ampersand in the middle of the file name and Windows was having some trouble in figuring out what to do with it. Once I renamed the file without the ampersand, I was able to copy and paste with no problems. 

If you want to try out the RTM version for free, you can always download the 90 Trial of Windows 7 which is on the Microsoft website. This will let you test the software on your hardware with the final version of the product. After installing this version, you should be able to see if any of the errors that you are experiencing have been corrected. Hope this helps some. 

It's more than likely a code problem on the websites that you visit. If the sites happen to be running say a google ad which is written in javascript and has a small bug, then your firebug will see this error and notifiy you about it. If that same ad is in many places the odds of running into that same error is great. I personally would turn off Firebug when I'm not actualy working on a site/page. Hope this helps some. 

Probably doubtful. A desktop machine doesn't draw much more than a light being left on when it's sitting idle. Here's a page that talks about power usage for a computer. As for what type of server OS to install, that's really going to be based off what you'd like to use the machine for. If you're comfortable with windows and don't want to relearn anything, install you Server 2008 OS and set the machine up for an application server/file server. Or install Windows Home Server like has been suggested and use it for a interal backup machine. Last, install a version of Linux and use the machine for PHP/MySQL development or your own personal mail server (many options there). Either way you go with it, have fun. 

More than likely anyway that you export a virtual machine to a physical machine, you're going to end having to reactivate it. One, the system will notice that the hardware is different (motherboard, harddrive, RAM, processor, videocard). Two, you going to find that Windows will need to find drivers for any specific hardware that is installed on the machine (video, NIC, sound, etc). Last, if you reactivate windows on the new hardware, your licenese for the OS will not allow you to keep the virtual up and running also. It's a grey area, but typicaly you can only have one instance of the OS running at a time (though I doubt that the EULA police will raid your home for this). Just remember that. Good luck on your project and hope this helps some. 

This tutorial is for Windows Vista, but should work also for Windows 7. Vista Log Off Shortcut Creation 

I would partition the laptop's hard drive into a C:\ (system) and a D:\ (storage) type of layout. That way when you do use a system imaging tool you only image the actual operating system instead of a lot of data that changes often. Using a live CD might actually be a little easier to work with since you can have networking and internet access if need be. You can usually save off an image to just about anyplace such as a CD, DVD, external drive or network drive. If you're thinking about disaster recovery, you might also want to think about doing a nightly backup of your data so that you can also recover it if the laptop's hard drive fails. Good luck, and hope this helps some. 

You can create ASP.NET applications (web forms, MVC, etc) with a cloud based solution called CodeRun which looks and acts much like Visual Studio. Here is a 3 minute video describing how the IDE works. Hope this helps you some. 

Some HP machines have been setup with a hardware limitation of how big of a hard drive that can be installed. I have a HP Compaq Business Notebook nx9100 which has a physical limitation of less than 80 gigs of harddrive. I know this because I tried installing both a PATA 160gig and a PATA 100 gig harddrive which both did the exact same thing that you described. If the hard drive that you're moving from one laptop to another happens to be larger than that phsyical limitation then this could be the cause of your problem. Hope this helps and good luck. 

Yes, you can upgrade from standard Windows 8 installation to a Windows 8 Pro edition quite easily. Follow the instructions found on this Microsoft Windows Help link: Add features to Windows 8 Hope this helps you some. 

The easiest thing to do to get two machines online with the same internet connection is to just hook a switch up to your modem and attach a separate Ethernet cable to each machine. Here is a simple switch example: Linksys EtherFast 10/100 5-Port Workgroup Switch EZXS55W Switch - 5 ports No configuration is needed for either the modem or the computers. Just hook the cables up and you should be good to go. Hope this helps some. 

So today I was trying to copy a simple .PDF file from a local folder on my machine to a network folder and every time I tried to move the file I would get an error dialog box which would state that I was passing a wrong parameter and give me the error code of 8x90070057. Does anyone know of a way to work around this error so that I can get this file copied? 

Actaully because of the nature of open source applications ("I can build one of those!"), giving you a one for one replacement for your OSX apps is difficult. As you can see from the other answers for this questions there are at least a couple different applications for each type of app you're looking for. Since there are so many different variations of text editors, music players, movie makers, desktop enviroments, the easiest thing to do would be to find a set of applications that you personally like and enjoy using. If you find that you're a Gnome desktop user, we a thing for some KDE applications and the occasional fling with Vim, no one is going to stop you. Since you spoke of Ubuntu, I would suggest that you just go through their application library and start downloading applications that sound fun, exciting or might be usefull for you. Installing and uninstalling applications is trivial with Linux. Play with the thousands of applications out there and have fun. Good luck and hope this helps some. 

Windows 7 likes to be the main OS on a dual boot system. Your boot manager is the problem. Either use the Windows CD or your Ubuntu CD to go and rebuild your boot manager. Good luck. 

Instead of using RAID for your disk setup, you might get a better return on your investment if all of your virtuals live on different high speed hard drives. Good luck, and have fun! 

You might want to read up on this article about the Windows Update error 80070643. If you were installing Microsoft Office 2003 updates when you received the error, follow the instructions in the "Microsoft Office 2003" section of the article. Otherwise, follow the instructions in the "Windows .NET Framework" section. Good luck, and hope this helps some. 

Windows Desktop Search might actually be what you're looking for. This works much better than the built in search found in Windows XP. Hope this works for you. 

The more ram that you can dedicate to your virtual machine the better. Even one more gig of ram dedicted to your virtual machine will make it run better. You might also want to go through the services that are running in the background of the windows installation and turn off those that are not needed as those will free up more memory for you. 

A very easy way of getting SUSE 11 up and going on a virtual machine is just download one of the pre made appliances that are offered. You can find several of them here. Once you download the correct version, you would just need to make a new virtual machine and point that virtual machine to the directory containing the downloaded virtual's hard drive. Good luck, and hope this helps some. 

You might get better control of your search by using Windows Search or Google Desktop. Generally these index the files that you're speaking about and give back faster results than the built-in search features of XP. Hope this helps. 

I would recommend using a live CD of some type either Linux based or a windows based one so that you can determine if you're dealing with a hardware issue or a software issue. If you can successfully boot into a live CD's enviroment then I would say that you're working with a software error and that a repair or restore of the windows operating system might need to be done. If you can not get into a running system off of a live CD then you might want to check out any new hardware that has been installed. Swapping out older hardware for newer installed hardware to see what works and what doesn't. Keep using the Live CD since you know that it's a working system and can't be changed. Remember to only change out one part at a time so that you know what you've worked with and what you haven't. It sounds like you might have a fault memory module installed since you're dealing with an intermittent problem. Good luck and the trouble shooting and hope this helps some. 

You're problably looking at some stylesheet issues rather than anything in the code behind of the application. The rendering of pages in IE6 is much different than IE7 or 8. I've run into the same issues on occassion and usually it's just a simple tweek of a defind style. You can use the IE Developer Toolbar (which works in both IE7 and comes standard in 8) to see the layout of divs tables and etc along with the associated styles. Find the offending markup, tweek it in both browsers until you can get a consistant rendering across the diffrent browsers. Good luck and hope this helps some. 

Wouldn't it just be easier to purchase a wireless network card than trying to make the desktop work with a laptop shared network connection? The time you spend trying to get the machine setup that way could well be spent on other things. Good luck on your project. 

From Ubuntu's website, 32-bit and 64-bit differences. Basically what it comes down to is how much memory you will be able to access. With a 32-bit system with 'Physical Address Extension' or PAE, you can hit a maxium of 64 gigabytes of memory that you can access. With a 64-bit system, you will have can have an almost unlimted amount, but most hardware will limit this to one terabyte of memory. When using a 64-bit powered machine, the percived speed of the system is much faster than a 32-bit machine. So from a users standpoint, this is great benefit. Stright from Ubuntu's website 

While amazon still shows CS3 as a purchase option, it might be cheaper to go ahead and upgrade to CS4 if you're going to spending hundreds of dollars for a license. 

With keeping your files and software on an upgrade is possible, you may still be inheriting the issues that caused your Vista installation to blue screen. If you still have the intallation disks for your software, I would take a live CD boot into that, copy off your personal files and then install everything from scratch. You might have better luck with that. Good luck and hope this helps some. 

It could be that one monitor is sending a digital signal and the other an analog signal to the video card. I would guess that the analog signal would be on the Dell monitor which is why you're having system issues. As for a solution, there might be some system setting in OSx which tweak in order for the laptop to handle the different video inputs. Good luck, and hope this helps some. 

I'm going to make a wild statement and say that this will be a horrible experience. Installing XP on a modern machine is going to painful because one the hardware is totally different from what XP was designed for 10 years ago, and secondly, XP won't have the drivers written for said hardware. Quite a few new laptops preinstalled with Windows 7 are 64bit machines. 64bit XP will run, but it had terrible support for hardware and trying to find drivers for things will be a pain. Video card, webcams, wireless networking, USB3 support, all of those may or may not end up working. If you stil have a laptop that is 64bit, most XP disks are 32bit, and that's going to physically limit you from the ammount of memory that can be used with your machine. Many new macines now-a-days comes with at least 4gigs of memory, and can easily be upgraded to 8 because of the 64bit hardware. You can install the 32bit OS on the machine, deal with the hardware issues and end up limiting yourself to less memory than what's installed on the laptop. Since Windows 7 has excellent support for XP mode, and if you have Windows 7 Professional or better, it's free to download and use, I have to go against the grain here and say keep what you have and use XP mode for a much better experience. Good luck on your quest, and hope this helps some.