If you have a static IP that doesn't belong to some colo it should just be a matter of contacting whichever mailserver responsible and requesting that they add your IP to their whitelist. Also do a Google search for SMTP whitelists and put your IP address on as many as you can find. I did this right when I started up my SMTP server and within a couple months I was getting mail through without an issue. Of course all of this assumes you're not sending out some kind of mass email in which case you're probably going to have to jump through some more complicated hoops. 

I have an ASP.Net project that's using the ClearScript.V8 library which relies on the Visual Studio 2012 C++ Redistributable to work. I'm faced with the prospect of having to install this on 50+ machines and I'm curious if I can get TFS to do it for me. I realize this straddles somewhere between Stack Overflow and Server Fault so I'm asking on both sites. 

Is your DNS server an authoritative name server for the domain? Then simply add an A or CNAME record to your DNS entries and point it to the IP address or an alternate fully qualified hostname of your server. Once you do that go into IIS, find the website and add the hostname to the website filter. 

Currently, what you're trying to do can't be done in a single operation. Move in S3cmd to the API is essentially a copy and delete all in one and it's a restriction of the copy operation. $URL$ 

Next, run the deletion via API calls (You can easily test via Postman or just using curl/etc) NOTE: In the below calls, add to the HTTP Header 

So, the above authenticates users against AD and works as designed. It searches for the user group "VPN Users" within (the default '/Users' OU) If the user has the proper group set then it allows a user in! I want to add a user to another separate OU, for example: Team1/Desktop-users/Standard users could be my new OU with users in it. I want to allow users in that OU as well as the original one. Would this be as easy as adding another object in the config? 

Sometimes I would like to view log entries as a "standard" looking text based log file. Right now sometimes I'll end up going to the server where the logs were generated just so I can display a block of text to follow a timeline of logs a little quicker than going through graylog. This totally defeats the purpose of having central logging, but it's still saving me time. For example, sometimes a script needs to have debug enabled while it parses through a file with 1,000 lines of data in it. Since debug is enabled it literally spits every line it processes into the log files as it parses lines. I would like to view this as a sequential log entry file rather than each and every entry having its own object in the graylog ui. I do realize that it has a "Show Surrounding Messages" function, but that still shows each message in an individual object in the gui. It would be really nice to see this in a standard log view. So that it literally looks like a normal text based log. Use Case: In troubleshooting an application behavior over a 5 minute period which consists of 700 log messages, I don't want to have to expand each message individually. It would be much more human readable if I can view these logs as a "standard" log file rather than through the GUI. Is this possible, and if so, how can I do it? Thanks 

A user on the Amazon forum's led me to a solution. The problem will occur after binding an SSL cert to a website in IIS that was not issued from a recognized CA. I'm not sure if this would be classified as a bug or by design but it's confusing either way. To resolve the issue you must verify the existence of the issuing CA's certificate in the Trusted Root Certificate Authorities store. You can do this with the following steps: 

First, make sure that the IUSR account has access to write to the WordPress site Themes directory Second, locate your PHP.ini config file. Mine was in Make a backup and open the original file in notepad to edit it. Change the value to a directory that the IUSR account has write access to. (Beware, values can be set multiple times in the config file so look for duplicate entries.) Change and to a file size appropriate for the kind of themes you are uploading. I went with 20 megabytes. Change and to durations appropriate to the size of the theme and bandwidth of your server. 300 seconds for both settings works well for me. Reset IIS 

You may not be realizing how much you are benefiting from firewalls simply because everybody else is using them. In a day when literally everyone, down to home DSL users have firewalls in place port sniffing has been all but given up as a feasible attack vector. A decent hacker isn't going to waste their time checking for such things. 

I have an OpenVPN server that authenticates against a single AD domain. Here is my auth-ldap.conf that is used with OpenVPN 

This is commonly done with instance An EC2 instance can have any number of tags in key:value format. They are often used liberally to help further processes identify instance roles/types/environments/etc Some examples: 

I want to open up TCP to the docker daemon so that Jenkins can build containers against it. I'm getting lots of info about how to do this. Hoping to get the best method. Goals of dockerd: 

ANSWER TO THE QUESTION: Logical 'OR' -- the GPO will apply if any of the Security Filters match. SOLUTION TO SITUATION: Configure user Group Policy Loopback Processing Mode 

EDIT: I've also tried setting the host definition to a standard ping check, and put in a service definition for the command. The host shows UP but the service is DOWN. Same exact error "Socket timeout after 10 seconds" -- The command line use is nearly instant with the UDP OK return. I am stumped. EDIT 2: I tweaked the debug settings, and have turned logging verbosity up to the highest value (2). It doesn't really tell me much, but it looks like Nagios is interpreting the command as expected... 

So the only thing left over is the directory with the same 5x layers listed. This seems to be the reason why it's still listed on When I delete the folder (from ) then the repository is no longer shown in the This seems to be a method to purge it from the listing. However - what if an image has 2x tags, yet only 1 is deleted - is there a reason to delete anything from in that case? How would that be handled with multiple versions of an image? Obviously I can't just clobber the directory as the final method since, in the real world, there will be many tagged versions of an image. So this needs to be done intelligently. 

Click Start Type 'mmc' in the search and hit enter Click file->add remove snap in Locate the Certificates snap in and click Add Select the Computer Account Click Ok Expand the Certificates snap in Locate the Trusted Root Certificate Authorities store 

If the issuing CA of your SSL cert does not exist you must import it into the store. You can do this by retrieving a file for the issuing CA, and importing it by right clicking and selecting and following the steps in the wizard. 

I'm running WordPress on Windows 2008 / IIS 7 and I get a non-descript error when I try to upload a theme. It just says "Are you sure you want to do this?" and then a line below that says "Server error" 

Run this script and use it to verify that the above settings have been applied. If not, check for duplicate entries in the config file that may be overwriting your settings and verify you've edited the file listed in the output under It took me a while to gather up all these pieces so hopefully anyone else having the same issue will end up here first. :) 

After doing some fairly inconsequential set up of a new Windows 2008 server instance it will cease responding to any connection attempts after a reboot. RDP, HTTP, HTTPS, you name it. I am unsure if this is because the installation has become corrupt or if something in Windows 2008 is triggering security measures and simply blocking all inbound connections.