First you installed XP and then 7... on HDA. That's the first and primary hard drive. Their partitions get referenced by the bootloader on that drive with the information that they are installed on HDA. Then, you connect the Linux HD, and you change the BIOS settings to make that drive the primary drive... namely making it HDA. This makes the Windows drive HDB. You reinstalled the OSes in same sequence? What? Look. Change the Windows drive to be the primary again. Leave the Linux drive in the computer. Make sure you can boot to both versions of Windows... don't worry about Linux yet. Install EasyBCD and fix your bootloader to allow you to boot to all the Operating Systems. 

Konqueror browser perhaps? I say that, because it appears that part of the security built into Konqueror appears to be a warning system that says exactly what you have experienced, when you attempt to go to an IP address instead of a domain name. This is because most times when you try to visit a link that is an IP address instead of a domain name, you are being presented with an IP address because it is temporary and what is at the destination is not safe. Of course, some with Firefox have seen this too. I know. I'm not saying that EVERY time this is the case. However the makers of the Konqueror browser seem to think that the results of such occasions are negative enough of the time to post a warning when this comes up. At least... you are not alone in experiencing this, and the common factor between you and the others who have experienced this is that they attempted to go to an IP address instead of a domain name. Not that this response you saw is limited to ONLY people who go to IP addresses instead of domain names. In the end, without knowing the browser you are using, your OS, the address you attempted to visit, it's all guess-work in the end. 

Hm. For $10-$15 your solution would be an ethernet cable. I know, you don't want to run one... but that's the solution that fits in that budget. For $25-$50, you could get a Wireless Ethernet Bridge... like this TP-Link WA500G. I present this particular one simply because if you shop around, you'll find it fits within that price range. There are others as well that will cost that much or more (Poke about eBay for a Linksys WET54g perhaps). This is a good solution because you configure the device itself to connect to your wireless network. It then passes an internal IP address to the device you connect it to... your TV. Your TV is now on your internal network and within the same subnet as all the other devices on your network... just as if it had a wireless card itself, or as if it was wired directly to your router. I keep one of these handy for when I want to connect client's desktops to my network without having to install driver software. These things will work with any device that has an ethernet port.... game consoles, TVs, DVR boxes... you name it. There are even fancier ones that have 4 ethernet ports on them. For $55-$100 you could go with a power-line adapter, as has been suggested. For that outlay of cash, you get a pair of special plugs that will turn a segment of your electrical conduits in the walls, into a network segment. There isn't any configuration like you would see with a wireless ethernet bridge. You just plug an ethernet cable into your router, plug the other end of that cable into one of the power line adapters, then plug that power line adapter into the wall. You then plug the other adapter into the wall near the TV, and use a second ethernet cable between the TV and the adapter. The more expensive ones will not take up the wall socket as they come with a power pass-thru, but the ones at the lower end of the price range don't have pass-thru plugs... so in order to use them you would need to be able to give up a wall socket. Can be an elegant solution, but then again, can end up being more expensive than you need it to be. 

Open both the Word document and the Excel worksheet that contains the data that you want to create a linked object or embedded object from. Switch to Excel, and then select the entire worksheet, a range of cells, or the chart that you want. Press CTRL+C. Switch to the Word document, and then click where you want the information to appear. On the Home tab, in the Clipboard group, click the arrow under Paste, and then click Paste Special. In the As list, select Microsoft Office Excel object. Click Paste to insert an embedded object, or click Paste link to insert a link to the object. 

I'm going to skip most of the stuff on this page, and just copy the meaty relevant part at the bottom... 

I disagree, and your screenshot proves it. You said nothing about installing the proper Windows 7 drivers that you downloaded from the laptop manufacturer. Did you download the Windows 7 drivers from the manufacturer for all the hardware? Don't say you did not have to, because obviously this copy of Windows 7 Ultimate didn't install properly, if hardware is showing up as eject-able, that normally you should not be able to eject. Where did you get this copy of Windows 7 Ultimate? A Torrent? I have found that most people who install W7 Ultimate not only didn't need Bitlocker or the ability to switch between 35 different languages, but they almost never paid for it. I'm not criticizing you for that, I'm pointing out that if you didn't go and purchase a retail (or OEM) copy, you have no idea what might be wrong with that install. You just did this installation, so obviously doing it over again shouldn't be an issue. My advice is to skip the download of Windows 7 ultimate, and download a copy of Vista Home Premium OEM. That way, you can use the product key on the bottom of the laptop and get a valid install... and you can get the laptop working the way it was when it was new. But, if you insist on using Window 7 Ultimate, then do it right, and download all the drivers from the manufacturer, and use them instead of depending on Windows Update.