I'm unsure what you expect to be matched by - a series of digits followed by a literal period (AKA full stop) or decimal point. 

You can view Certificate contents in Firefox () If you can export to PEM, you can convert that to PKCS12 

Update: To find out what program is already using (i.e. listening or bound to) port 80 use as root. Update 2: Note that you need to be root to bind to privileged port numbers (below 1024) 

As you know, you must match devices to signal levels and impedances expected by each of these. For example, connecting a microphone to line-in will result in inaudible or very weak recording levels. 

Business model The music industry traditionally made money from the sales of vinyl-records, cassette-tapes and audio-CDs. Protection of their copyright was seen by the industry as essential for their survival. To combat illegal copying of tapes they persuaded legislators to impose a levy on blank tape sales. The music industry felt that facilitating playback on personal computers was facilitating the infringement of their copyright and thus facilitating their own destruction. So decisions concerning audio-CD contents and formats were heavily skewed against making anything easier for personal computer users. Inertia The audio CD has been established for a long while and there is no point making new CDs incompatible with existing CD-players. This means that care has to be taken if adding digital content to audio-CDs. Digital data and audio data on CDs use completely different and incompatible underlying formatting. This makes it tricky to mix both - though this can be done. Given a large population of old CD-players, the industry has evidently not seen a benefit to them of "improving" the audio-CD format. Their perceived use case is: You buy a CD, you put it in a dedicated audio CD-player attached to an audio-amplifier and loudspeakers. You sit down and read the track information printed on the CD cover. Digital Distribution Nowadays the trend is to downloadable content, at least paid-for MP3 files generally contain metadata for artist, album-name, year and genre etc. It therefore seems unlikely that the music industry has any interest whatsoever in doing anything new with their CD pressing process. Its a dying business after all. 

Use disk encryption and make off-site backups If you don't have an edition of Windows-7 that includes disk encryption, you can download and install something like TrueCrypt or any of the many commercial equivalents. 

The option of grep is used to refer to a file that contains a list of patterns - your file does not contain a list of patterns it contains a list of filenames man grep 

Putty does not have keyboard mapping (though there is a feature request) Perhaps this EMACS wiki article is helpful? 

Possible options include Convert the HTML and associated files to an executable. I asked Google about "html to exe" and saw some useful looking results. Convert the HTML to a common word-processing format. I'd guess that RTF is readable on a wide range of platforms. If (as most business people assume) your customers can read Microsoft Word documents, you could try that format or the more open OpenDocument format. Again, Google is a useful recource 

If I am playing Fallout 3 GOTY when another application puts up a dialog box on the desktop (e.g. Java auto updater needs permission) then I am subsequently unable to return to Fallout 3. Sometimes the desktop is shown (at wrong resolution) but clicking the Fallout icon on the taskbar just displays a wide but minimum height empty window (just the usual window decorations). Sometimes I can just see the dialog box but have no mouse cursor. Usually I can use task manager to kill Fallout 3. The OS is Vista 32-bit. The desktop screen resolution is 1680x1050 but the game runs at 1280x800 for performance reasons. I've had similar problems with other full-screen games. Is there any way to prevent this problem or to recover from it so that I can resume the game? 

No, that is a fault in your router or a problem with your modem, ADSL-line or cable-connection or ISP. Instead of unplugging everything, try connecting to the router's administration web-page. From there you should be able to get it to reconnect or to reboot. If the problem persists, I'd try calling your ISP support and/or changing the ADSL filter, cables or router. 

I upgraded all my Win8 machines to 10 so I can't check if it is the same in Win8. A registry search should locate this quickly. On a DNS server, the hint file is only needed at start-up, it shouldn't be referred to for every query thereafter. For Windows this used to be in a file called in . 

If that drive was the only hard drive, and a full new install was performed on the replacement then no. If full-backups were made and kept, those would reveal what software had been previously installed. If the user's data files had already been restored, you might infer what software might have previously produced those files and therefore which software might have been present. If the computer had two drives, C and D, with some software installed on D, then D was replaced without un-installing software, then if the operating system was Windows, the registry on C would reveal what software had been installed on D. Summary: You should give more details! 

Chrome's "Print as PDF" function seems to preserve the vector nature of fonts and some other parts of the final image - you can zoom in indefinitely, as shown below, without the obvious pixellation you get from bitmap images in PDFs. 

Depending on how complex the document structure and formatting is, you could use a tool such as Pandoc to convert an MS Word document to a plain text format such as Markdown-Extra. As you are probably aware, SuperUser questions and answers are written in a subset of Markdown. It is also used in GitHub and other places for documentation. I use it a lot for generating websites (both static and dynamic). If you have made heavy use of styling then converting the MS Word document to HTML5+CSS3 might preserve more - the tradeoff being much less readable text. 

No in general. That sort of default-value set for BIOS settings is likely to be constants in the firmware ROM (or equivalent), not data in some reprogrammable IC. Yes if you have the money and time to make special arrangements with a BIOS maker + motherboard maker and anticipate buying tens or hundreds of thousands of units. 

Tools like rsync do have options to do the sort of file-based copying you discuss - but these tools have to make special provision for each of the special cases. For example 

Yes, both bootloaders, when so configured, allow you to boot one of several operating systems installed in separate partitions. See examples for both grub and for plop 

The only ways to change your routing to a specific destination are to use some kind of proxy or a different ISP. Routing is pretty much determined by peering arrangements between ISPs. The fact that traceroute never ends just means that the last router or last few routers are not reporting back packet TTL expiry, it doesn't explain the overall latency (your 400ms ping).