I ended up using ABBYY Screenshot Reader. Its not perfect (it gets about 10% of chars wrong), but works if you're prepared to do a little editing. 

Sometimes, I find myself typing out a lot of text from a screen capture. Its quite tedious. Is there an OCR (Optical Character Recognition) program out there that would allow me to quickly convert the something like a screen capture, or the contents of the Windows clipboard (a bitmap), into text? 

Yes, the new SSE4.2 instruction set in the Intel i7 and Intel Xeon X5650 can be used to speed up compression. Given that my CPU usage is 3% while simultaneously compressing three 2TB hard drives, Win7 is almost certainly using SSE4.2 behind the scenes for NTFS sector level compression. See Power Savings with Hardware based GZIP Compression, Tony Summers et. al., AHA Products Group, Comtech EF Data Corporation. 

I'd like to stop portable USB storage devices from being used on my computer. Its just too easy for someone to copy confidential data from my hard drive to a USB flash drive. Is there a way to install a program on Windows 7, so that if an unknown USB drive is inserted, it asks for a password before it can be mounted and used? 

How do compress an entire drive, ignoring previously compressed files (in particular, .zip, .rar and .tib)? Compressing a ".tib" file is pointless: its an Acronis TrueImage file, about 15GB, and as its already compressed it makes no savings to disk space, while wasting about 2 hours of time. 

I'm wondering what reasons could there be for this? Is there a log I can check to see what was actually installed? 

get connected to Lion Server again failing that, a way to completely remove lion server so I can re-install Another place to look/check etc. so I can continue debugging, I'm a bit stuck at the moment. 

I'd like to add a dedicated N (or g - lock the 310n to g) channel to the network. Any thoughts? Is buying a second cheap G router the best option (setting up a wired bridge with dd-wrt), get an N bridge (if so, any recommendations?) The only reason I actually care about N at all is getting some speed to my mac mini (HTPC). I really don't want/need a new router (unless there's not a good option that costs less than a 610n). 

It really has nothing to do with the number of "users" or wireless clients. If I'm downloading a 1gig file at 1mbs that would leave 53mbs (on a 54mb link) for other applications to do stuff. However, if I'm able to get that 1gig file with a rate of 45mbs that would leave 9mbs for other applications. The speed of the flow depends on bandwidth, routers, network conditions between the two devices involved in the flow. Note: due to header overhead etc, you will never get 54mbs of transfer rate out of a 54mbs network. And it's really not that straight forward, but it's a more accurate way of thinking about the problem. 

These total to about 1.5 - 2mb of ram and almost no load. So, yes, your system resources are impacted, though I doubt you'd ever notice. 

Should be pretty easy to wrap the above in a shell script. There are likely ways to do this without using the tmp files. 

Unfortunately, this is not as simple as just installing the .NET 2.0 runtime, because its already installed. If I run the recommended installers for .NET 2.0 or .NET 3.5 SP1, it exits silently. Events leading to problem: 

PowerPoint 2007 used to display a list of miniature slides down the left hand side, which could be used for navigation and cut/paste. This list has disappeared - any ideas on how to get it back? I've been through every option on the Ribbon, multiple times, and can't seem to find the option to turn this back on. 

Its getting reasonable compression: up to 40:1, and typically 2:1. The resulting CPU load is only about 3% Does anyone know why is the CPU load so low? Does anyone know if the Win7 realtime compression/decompression kernel is using SSE3 or SSSE3 or SSE4.2 instructions behind the scenes? 

Try logging in with a user account that has Administrator privileges. You can check your privileges in the "Control Panel" and "User Accounts" section. 

We have a RAID 5 array using Intel Matrix Storage (i.e. a motherboard based RAID). One of the hard drives has started to make a grinding noise, and the array is currently rebuilding. We'd like to interrogate the S.M.A.R.T. values on the Seagate drives, but for some reason none of the programs we've tried have been able to read the S.M.A.R.T. values. Is there any technique for reading the S.M.A.R.T. values out so we can tell which drive is on its last legs? 

We have a remote computer that only has ports 49000 to 49010 available. We want to control it with TeamViewer. Is it possible to configure TeamViewer to use LAN only mode, and a custom port other than the default? 

A different approach is to use a program like swatch. Swatch is built to do exactly what you are talking about, plus a dozen other things. 

Will open System Information and save a screencap to filename.jpg You can then copy/email/print/etc. that file. System Information.app launches with a screen that shows: 

Try removing your profile (you will lose your bookmarks, passwords, browsing history, etc). Your profile is usually located in ~/.mozilla or ~/.firefox, it's a sub-directory in there, remove the subdir only. This is a fixable problem (or at least should be). The issue is figuring out why firefox isn't starting. That said, it's possible that firefox not starting is the least of your problems. Who knows what else is busted. . . getting some idea as to why firefox is failing may help you figure out if anything else is broken. If all else fails: 

Create a new VM Install OS on new VM Add disk image from the crashed VM to the new VM (add disk via vmware settings) Copy needed data from old disk, to new disk. Profit! 

from the command line will (at least for me) open a new tab to superuser.com in firefox (which is my default browser) 

This is a case of not reading before doing. I wanted to start clean with Lion Server, so I did what I normally do, drag the app to the trashcan and re-install it. (not realizing that server was a bit more involved than most other applications) I'm now unable to connect to the server via Server.app. After I select the server and enter my username and password the connecting spinner spins forever. dtruss on both Server.app and servermgrd really didn't tell me much. I can connect to :311 with a web browser, so it appears that servermgrd is working to some extent. Things I've noticed: /etc/apache2.before-restore.... directories /etc/certificates.before-restore... directories /var/servermgrd/*.lock (with old dates) Anyone have a clue on how to: 

I'd like to use some method to automatically log me out from my workstation when I walk away from it. The Bluetooth connection on my phone could be a good method to do this - do you know of any software that uses this method, or others for contactless logoff? 

We'd like some sort of program that redirects all reads/writes to port 5938, to port 59000. It has to work in both directions, kind of like a "port tunnel". Is this possible? 

I'd like to tune my network card to have the absolute minimum latency when pinging a remote server. Is there a Windows utility that allows me to change things such as MTU, ACK time, buffer length, etc? 

I'd like some automated method of converting the following URL into a format I can read on my Kindle (i.e. .mobi or PDF). $URL$ The output would have to have the first level of articles included (about 10 blog entries). 

Macro Express Pro will be able to do this for you. It has a very nice graphical language that allows you to drag sequences of commands onto a list. I've been using it for about 5 years, it powerful enough to do just about anything you can imagine, including this task. Suggest setting the "activation" to "clipboard", add a command to copy the contents of the clipboard to a variable, then switch focus to your target program, paste it in, then switch focus back. I've just finished writing a big a big macro to do the same thing as you're describing, to copy text from a web page into a document for safe keeping whenever I hit a hotkey. 

NFS, while useful, is not generally great at dealing with user perms. In order to do this you have to do a few things: 

RipIt & Handbrake do a really good job of ripping and compressing. For normal "single main feature" DVDs I have a good workflow, and for the most part handbrake does a good job of figuring out what the main title is. The process for ripping a DVD that has multiple episodes of something kinda sucks. Has anyone made any progress on automating (or at least simplifying) the process of getting show-s01e01.avi from a DVD? 

Get a new cpu fan. They're cheap and pretty easy to install. Were you looking for a different answer? 

Clarification: I've installed the Lion-Server package on my desktop. This isn't headless server hardware. 

There is a piece of software called MarcoPolo that lets you execute various actions (including scripts) when the physical state of a box changes (you can switch on stuff like external power, external monitor, ambient light, time of day, attached drives, visible wifi networks, ip address, etc) 

i2p is another anonymous proxy system. It works differently than Tor but it still quite slow. It essentially creates a virtual encrypted/anonymous network on top of regular IP. There are web servers that are only accessible via the i2p network. The i2p network provides things like out proxies and dns proxies that allow you to get to normal (i.e. non i2p) websites. You need to run an i2p "router" (java software) on your local device to connect to the i2p network. 

I'd really consider getting separate devices to handle the three different tasks. It costs a bit more now, but will save you money in the long run. With an all in one unit, upgrading one piece forces you to upgrade everything. I have a generic docsis 2.0 modem, a linksys 610n router (really nice dual radio that supports dd-wrt) and a generic linksys voip box. When I want to upgrade to a docsis 3.0 modem, I don't have to pay for a new router/voip box. (not to mention having to re-configure my router). In the end, being able to upgrade individual pieces rather than re-buy the whole thing is a plus (yet I'm still a Mac user, go figure) 

I have a Hex-core Xeon X5650 running Windows 7 x64. I'm currently doing simultaneous compression of three NTFS hard drives, 2TB each, with the commands: 

Perhaps use the mail merge feature in MS Word? It wasn't originally designed for this, but you should be able to get exactly the results you need. $URL$ 

If you want cloud backup, then I prefer Amazon S3 plus some backup program such as 2BrightSparks SyncBackPro or CloudBerry. They will both handle synchronization issues seamlessly (SyncBackPro has more powerful features, however its not as easy to use out of the box). 

Looking for a method to display the "best of the day" images from Flickr or Google Images, as a screensaver. I've heard that a Media RSS viewer might do the trick - any recommendations? 

I'd like a better method to import .csv files into Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2. The default import wizard maps everything, by default, to a varchar(50), even when its quite obvious that its a columm of numbers. It also lacks support for normalizing data, or mapping columns into different tables. In short, I need something better. Your recommendations? 

There are some methods to do automated login using the Bluetooth connection to your phone. Unfortunately, after evaluating about 8 solutions, all of them (without exception) were buggy and didn't work well. Seems odd, as the script to do this is only about 8 lines of code. Market opportunity, anyone? 

What I have tried Room 1 has the internet router. An ethernet cable connects the router to the ethernet wall socket. Room 2 has a laptop. An ethernet cable connects the laptop to the ethernet wall socket. If I connect the laptop directly to the internet router, it can browse the internet. If I connect the laptop to a internet router via said ethernet wall socket, it does not work. I have used a multimeter to check that each colored wire is properly seated in its socket. I touched the tip of the probe to the end of the wire, and the tip of the other probe to the two cutters that go through the insulation to the wire underneath. Update It works perfectly now, after following the answer by @Dwayne Reid. This practical example has helped me understand more about the physics that run our world. Update 2016-03-30 9 months on, and it's still working solidly. @Dwayne Reid and @Charles Cowie, thank you again! Update 2017-09-23 Over 2 years later, and it's still working brilliantly. @Dwayne Reid and @Charles Cowie, if I could buy you a beer, I would! 

QoS is the right choice. I don't know about the D-Link software, but I know that dd-wrt handles this just fine. I don't know if it's available in the D-Link firmware, but you may be able to set your QoS stuff using a mac address rather than an IP. that way you would still be able to use automatic address assignment. The only reason I could think that would give you connection problems would be using a duplicate IP address. Try setting the static IP of your xbox to be on the upper end of your range. i.e. if your home network is numbered out of 192.68.1.0/24 space, try setting the xbox to be 192.168.1.200. This should take it out of the range of addresses normally used for DHCP. Someone will un-doubtedly complain that this is a gaming question. I think it's a networking question. 

Try running firefox from the commandline, what happens? If that fails, try running the following from the command line: 

edit: You can print $$ to a file in the else, prior to the exec if you want to capture the pid. You can also just grep through PS output to kill based on pid. 

The UID of the files on the mount need to be the same as the user's UID on the local box If the user has local root you'll want to make sure root-squash is active on the NFS server. This ensures that access to files as the local root user is blocked. That said, if the user does have local root, it's pretty trivial for that user to create a local account with the same UID as the files he wants to get access to, and su to the new local user account, thus giving access to any file with the same UID as the newly created local user.