If in doubt, use the option (uppercase F) - but then you don't escape metacharacters in file.txt. Note the following 

I have owned several HP "all-in-one" devices. None of them needed a PC connected in order to make a photocopy. Just make it clear to the vendor that standalone copying is the purpose for which you are purchasing the device. Where I live, we have legal rights to return goods which are unfit for purpose. 

I think he is saying it is not Ghostscript that is adding the spaces between characters. And I believe his explanation. The PDFWrite device driver is subject to the limitations of a device driver in Ghostscript. I imagine the API was designed for making marks on visible surfaces, not for anything else that has been subsequently shoehorned in. In particular, the notion that a sequence of marks constitute a word is of no importance when making marks at specified positions. The mark making device doesn't need to know the difference between a space and spacing (kerning etc). A kind of corollary to this is that, so far as I know, words are not a thing in PDF or in it's ancestor Postscript. They don't have any need to keep track of words and don't provide any specific way of identifying them within PDF or PS file contents. 

An easy solution for suppressing sections when printing is to use a CSS stylesheet Add something like this to the element 

I am attempting to setup a WiFi network with on ArchLinux where I have and (not anymore in ArchLinux). As I am reading some tutorials they offen refer to when setting up static ip for the wifi network interface. Is this file relevant also on systems with or should I use CLI to setup the static ip address ? 

I am wondering if the hard-disk can be somehow repaired in this condition or if it can be just scrapped. 

Are these bash scripts only simple wrappers for executables or what is the reason for them being there if they are architecture-independent? Is my reasoning correct or do I miss something? 

I am using desktop and would like to have certain commands available in which just executes commands. I am appending to in but this works only for interactive shells. I have tried it with / but to no avail as well. 

I am trying to understand when is source and in manual both in terminal and online is mentioned that 

Evidently it is because foreign address of the 127.0.0.1 is and option shows only ports with I suppose the is ip6 format. But why option shows only ip4 ports? 

I expected that this would be everything necessary to get the Internet working but DNS did not work without adding to . What is the purpose of the DNS setting in *.network file then? 

I was wondering if copying files between different file systems (for example from ext4 to ntfs) is slower than copying to the same file system (from ext4 to ext 4). I also would like to know how does this apply for cases of ext4, btfrs and ntfs. 

Choose , and note the encoding. Use a Hex Dump tool to check the line endings - notepad expects CR LF but files from non-Windows sources, or files downloaded with incorrect FTP settings might have just CR or just LF. Open the file in Wordpad instead. 

See the information for HP Mini at Ubuntu Hardware Support Googling for "Ubuntu HP Mini Wireless OR WiFi OR 802.11" will find several useful accounts such as $URL$ 

If you have an existing client-server application that uses server port 2020, you can use SSH tunneling to encrypt it. The client is whichever computer initiates the connection, e.g. your "serverA" might act as the client. 

Perhaps the first "g++" found in your PATH is a script that contains a "perl" command or which starts with a shebang line that specifies "perl" without giving a full and correct path to a perl executable. 

Surfnet has an interesting Overview BitTorrent See Wikipedia on BitTorrent and this article on how to share large files with your friends (privately). 

Or you could use something like PGP to encrypt a Zip symmetric-encryption password that you want to exchange with another person. Or you could use PGP to encrypt a zip file (with or without Zip password protection) 

Eug48 wrote a vnote to text convertor in Python. The text is there, it is just encoded in "quoted printable" or other form. 

A proxy server and a router act at different levels in the protocol stack. A proxy acts at the application layer (e.g. an HTTP proxy). A router acts at the internetwork layer (e.g. IP protocol). The primary job of a router is to move packets between networks. The primary job of a proxy is to perform some useful service such as caching HTTP content, applying application-level filtering and authorization functions and so on. Routers are usually not concerned with establishing TCP sessions. Even a router performing Network Address Translation (NAT) just keeps track of sessions between internal clients and external servers and amends IP-addresses as needed. In normal use, routers are not the end-points of TCP sessions. In normal use, routers do not read the contents of application-layer protocols. 

The fact that is supposed to be shared among multipple machines and users does not help grasping the use of word 'shared' here which is meant to be shared across different architectures. This makes me wonder: 

From time to time I use gVim in windows. I am used to running commands with which in Linux outputs into gVim window but in Windows the new command line window is opened. How to force gVim to output it in its window? 

I know that BIOS/UEFI is used during computer startup to boot the system and check HW and that it provides abstraction over hardware Does this mean, that the OS kernel calls BIOS/UEFI layer when the OS is setup instead of interacting with hardware directly? 

I have MBR data in file and I would like to inspect it. Which Linux command can do this? WHen I ran the output was only 

I understand that networking uses sockets as well but I am wondering if Unix domain (IPC) sockets somehow relate to network layer. If so, does this use network HW somehow? Does it work like a loopback? If not, then why are listed by in Linux ? 

I have a situation when I want to connect from Windows machine to a web server running in virtual machine in Linux host. For this I would like Linux host to listen on a certain port and redirect it to the guest OS. What is the best way to achieve this? 

(I have disguised the details of my on ISP's names and addresses) If your PC produces error messages, it is time for the last step. Phone your ISP's help-desk You already pay them to provide help with this sort of problem. Update your question with more information You can cut & paste your own results from nslookup, ping and tracert. In the command prompt window, click anywhere with the mouse right-button and choose "mark" from the context-menu. Now use the mouse's left-button to select the command and response text. Press enter to copy the marked region to the clipboard. Paste into your question between lines containing <pre> and </pre>. 

See $URL$ 130 = 128+2 = signal 2. In this case I used ^A to send 0x01 to the shell which sent signal 2 to the process. ^C just sent 0x03 which displays as ^C. So I would NOT be trying to find out why Putty "sends" SIGINTR when mobaXterm doesn't. Neither of them do that. They just send an ASCII control character. 

Preserve your important data (documents, photos etc) You should already have several backups of your important data that you make copies of daily and which you keep separate from your computer. If you don't, as soon as you get anything working, make at least one copy of your important data to an external storage device (USB stick, USB hard drive, DVD-writer etc). Preferably make several copies and check they can be read on other computers before proceeding. There are other options for recovering your data (see other questions here on that subject) if you need to re-install Windows 7 or move to a new computer. Fix Windows Try booting in safe mode If that works, Try reinstating a system restore point. I mention this because you got a message saying a recent hardware or software change may be the cause of your problem. If you cannot restore from a system restore point. You may need to try using the system repair option If all this fails, you may be able to purchase a Windows 7 recovery/installation CD from the manufacturer of your PC. Using this may destroy any personal data you have stored on the PC. Make a repair disk Plan for the future - think of it as insurance. 

I am afraid this is another of FHS questions but I was not able to find more detailed explanation which I feel I need. Yeah, I know about Uni FHS and etc, but what still feels like lacking clarification is dir and it's contents. I believe this is partly due to the fact, that I am used to Linux instalations occupying only one partition with exception of . As I understand, its content is to be shared among multiple machines so it is (could be) mounted from some 'shared' hdd. It also contains the binaries not so critical as in and . Correct me if I am wrong. Its description as "read only" confuses me a little bit. 

In learning materials is often a picture of one TCP segment which is inside one IP datagram which is in one link-layer frame. Is this always the case? Is there guarantee that TCP segment is atomic and is contained within one IP datagram? Does the same apply for datagram and frame? What I mean is this: 1. 

Where are architecture-dependent data? Everywhere else? Does this mean that machines with the different architectures would not share /usr only /usr/share? (thus making it another physically separate partition) 

So basically IP treating the input from the transport layer as simply bytes (like transport layer treats application layer data) 2. Or the possible case, when IP and TCP boundaries match but more TCP segments are within one IP datagram whichtarget the same host but the contained TCP segments are part of different TCP connections. 

Of course it depends on what you mean by mainstream and what displays people will be using your software with in 5 years time. Aren't some film-makers using 4K (4,096 × 2,160) cameras now? The RED Epic-X S35 records 5,120 × 2,700, The RED Epic 617 is planned to record 28,000 × 9,334. 

Update: OK so you are typing SMTP commands by hand into an SMTP server. Learn how attachments are serialised. Read the RFCs for MIME attachments. Use Thunderbird to view the source of a short message that has a small attachment (Ctrl+u IIRC). Look for the various ways that binary attachments are encoded so that they can pass through a 7-bit ASCII or 8-bit channel. You can create the attachment as an external file. Even rot13 would demonstrate the process adequately. Then you just have to work out what MIME etc headings to key in and how to paste in the suitable encoded encrypted attachment during your telnet session. 

Whether Windows can be booted from SD card depends on whether the computer BIOS or UEFI supports booting from SD. The details of the interface are unimportant (it includes SPI). 

Address allocation Your ISP's equipment will allocate IP version 4 addresses from a pool. It is likely that this pool contains one or more continuous ranges of addresses. These will be allocated more or less randomly. Usually the servers try to allocate the same address as was used last time but this is not always feasible with small pools and a large turnover of customers. If your ISP has provided a static IP-address (some ISPs charge extra for this, some don't) you should always gett the same public IP-address allocated to your router. For some ISPs this depends on unique authentication credentials configured in your router (as I discovered when my ISP replaced a router killed by lightning), other ISPs might simply associate the static IP-address with the WAN-side MAC address of the router. So yes, if you have a Dynamic IP-address, as most people probably do, your neighbor might today have the IP-address that you were using yesterday. Or vice-versa. IP V4 Addresses You talk about "last 5 digits" but each of the four numeric parts of an IP V4 address can have from one to three digits (0-255). For example: 1.1.1.1 10.0.17.33 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.250 192.168.250.187 So really you are referring to the last two octets which may be represented as two to six decimal digits (actually two lots of one to three digit numbers) The address is really a 32-bit number in the range 0 to 4294967295. It is just presented in "dotted quad" form with four decimal octets for historical reasons (look up "classful network" if interested) 

Am I right in the assumption that it is not part of that 'shared' hdd but it is just a mounting point for a hdd/partition dedicated to one machine? (so basically not stored with other files at all) 

I would like to set HTTP proxy for Google Chrome on ArchLinux. When I open the proxy settings section in Chrome GUI I get: 

I can add virtual WiFi interface with but this is not persisted and gets lost when the system is restarted. What is the proper way to make this permanent ? 

I noticed that Opera browser is in version 12.16 for Linux version 22 for Windows. Why is there such a dramatic difference in version numbers? 

However I can't find what this option is. My guess from context would be that it sets non-interactive mode for the shell but it is just a guess. 

I have 6 nameserver entries in resolv.conf. Due to the recent changes in our network I added last 2 recently and did not bother commenting the old ones as I thought that having extra nameservers won't effect if the name is resolved or not and it will probably just take little bit more time. But without commenting out the previous 4 nameservers the names wont't resolve and I am just wondering why. Even in resolv.conf manual I see: 

How to view in Vim if there is any end of line character at the end of the file? If file content is '1234' as by Vim shows (with option) '1234$'. If file content is '1234\n' as by Vim again shows '1234$'. How do I distinguish between these two different contents if they are shown as same? Is there any other way how to inspect EOL chars using Linux default tools? 

Probably network overhead and chatter. Your 10 MB file isn't transferred as a single transaction, it is broken up into packets whose maximum size is limited by your LAN technology and which may be relatively small, those packets need to carry information about where they are going, where they came from, what priority they have, how many hops they have travelled so far and so on. They may arrive ou of order and so need to carry information that allows their payload to be reassembled in the right order. Packets therefore carry more than just data. There are headers and checksums at multiple levels. There are packets that do related work (DNS lookups, ARP requests), there can be retransmits of lost packets, there can be encryption, tunelling and many other overheads. Some systems, particularly those from Microsoft, spend a lot of time broadcasting things, advertising services, discovering services and trying to coordinate and negotiate roles in the local network. You need to be careful not to include this background chatter (more like a dull roar) in your measurements. Download wireshark and use it - you'll find it quite enlightening. 

From the above it follows that you need a separate file to store passwords (smbpasswd) or a domain controller if you want to avoid plain text passwords transiting your LAN. 

If there's any difference then something in the network and/or network drivers is to blame. Bear in mind that packets can be legitimately split during transit. (My money is on a bug in some C# code)