BUGTRAQ. Subscribing to the vendor announce and security mailing lists for the software you use is advised too. 

Have you checked the process list on MySQL () and the process list in Windows to verify that it is MySQL? (Task Manager) 

You can specify the protocol, the source of the packet, the destination for the packet, the destination port , the source port , and many other flags that will affect how the packets are treated by the rule. If your default policy were and you wanted to allow everyone at the subnet to access SSH on your server, here is an example: 

According to the Apache documentation, DirectoryIndex can be specified in a VirtualHost. If you have any other DirectoryIndexes specified, you might try removing them and only specifying within the VirtualHost. Your style of configuration would have to support this, however. As an alternative, you might consider using mod_alias or mod_rewrite instead. Check out the Redirect functions with mod_alias. 

To traverse a directory, it must have the executable bit set. This is how filesystem permissions work in UNIX. would be the appropriate permissions if you wanted to allow the group write access as well. 

While the recommendations provided by others are rock solid, diagnosing while ongoing is better done using different methods than the slow query log. This is a tool best used to monitor for slow queries for tuning as part of normal application maintenance. It sounds like you have a query running that is inefficient or simply dealing with a large data-set. When the queries become slow, run and sort by length of time running. This should allow you to determine the query that is causing others to take longer to execute. If you do not have a tool like mytop installed, you can use this command to sort based on the length of time running: 

You can use the setting to chroot a group to the directory. For example, this will chroot the group to : 

It looks like you may have attempted to configure php to be executed as CGI. This would not be the ideal implementation for PHP. Do you have handlers specified? Is the module loaded? If you provide your full configuration file, we should be able to help you. 

The system that negotiates the SSL connection is going to be responsible for performing the keypair handshake. If your clients are accessing the Apache server, it would serve the SSL certificate. The SSL certificate on JBoss would only be used by the Apache server, as it is the client in that case. If you want the JBoss server to handle the SSL negotiation on the front-end, consider using NAT (or a PAT) to translate the ports. 

With one IP, you are going to have limited support regardless. SNI, which allows VirtualHost with SSL, is only supported in modern browsers. SNI Compatibility 

You could also use something like expect. Some clients do not always handle input redirection without additional effort. For logging, you can use tee and redirect STDERR and STDOUT when running the main script. Example: 

Typically, when a numeric UID is displaying in a situation like this, it indicates that there may no longer be an entry in for the UID. Is 1001 specified in ? 

Yes and no. is something that is sometimes good to change. Generally, it is best to "default deny," as in default to the least privileges with most things. You will likely find that if you change the default umask and are not particularly aware of permissions that you may encounter situations where the default permissions prevent things from working. For example, a PERL module install via CPAN that doesn't set the permissions public readable as part of the install and then later a Web application is unable to read it. Really, the main benefit of hardening permissions will be seen with a multi-user system. Nevertheless, it is important to be particularly aware of anything that's easily accessible within an Internet accessible daemon. For hardening, it is often better to take a look at anything SUID or public writable. I find myself verifying permissions and tweaking them to least necessary privileges just as I go about my day. When I change umask it is often for a particular purpose such as with a particular set of users or when files are created programatically. If you're looking for some "best practices" for your server and general hardening techniques, take a look at Bastille. If I recall correctly, there was something in there that changed the default umask. Bastille 

My first thought is using a package for your native distribution, as Java is compiled anyway there is not much advantage unless you need a very particular version. If that were the case, you could also create your own package. I typically redirect STDIN. For example: 

I typically would use a CIFS share and a cronjob. Mount the SAMBA share on the UNIX server and put a bash script in cron to utilize it. 

Standard location for logs in . You want to look at the logs for . If it is not clear and you provide the output, I should be able to provide a specific recommendation. 

When compiling from source, is the default prefix. Some people like to use the standard system-wide locations, such as , instead even though it could be argued that it breaks the hierarchy standards. MySQL's default directory to store all variable files such as configuration and databases is . The default system-wide configuration file is . Ultimately, short of searching the filesystem, would be to look at the process list () and see where MySQL is running from, as the parameters MySQL is started with would identify its location. 

There's a lot of initial diagnostics left to perform here. Errors in ? Errors in ? Packet loss evidenced in ? Issues with link negotiation? Are there any differences, physical or not, between the Windows box and Linux box? Edit 1 Can you reproduce the performance using different protocols and sites? 

Snapshot functionality is going to depend on the architecture utilized by the host for the virtual server. VMWare has the ability to snapshot as does Xen and KVM. A popular solution is to use disk snapshots as well be it via LVM or a more expensive hardware storage solution. This solution would likely be the quickest and least painful way to restore quickly in case of error. Godaddy archiving to a remote site via FTP or network protocol is likely to be less comprehensive and may require manual action in case of issue. This sounds more like a classic backup solution. Unencrypted transfer could risk your data as well. Ultimately, the provider will need to detail exactly what feature-set is provided by their backup solutions. 

There's a variety of different solutions for things like this. I prefer shell scripting, others might prefer other methods. For interaction with things that require input and don't have flags to specify the answer, you can redirect input. I would read the apt-get manpage before taking this approach, as it may have native support for what you are trying to specify. For example: 

If temporary tables are over utilized, my first thought is that the application using the database is in need of query optimization. 

I use an external server for running an additional instance of Nagios, which is a last resort notification in case of complete failure. I wish I had an answer for your modem audio playback question. I want to say it should be simple but my knowledge of that stuff is getting rusty. There used to be Voice Modems sold specifically for playback of audio. If I were you, I would be trying to redirect audio playback using console software. I'd think this could be very simple. I might research more later when I have a moment. 

Most modern distributions and processors support PAE, which is Intel's instruction set allowing memory addressing beyond the 32-bit limitation. PAE allows a maximum of 64GB of RAM to be accessed by the processor. PAE has additional CPU overhead. 32-bit Linux has a per process limit of 3GB addressable even with PAE. Typically, the kernel reserves approximately 1GB. MySQL is a single process daemon. As such, it will be unable to address outside of the 32-bit limitation even with PAE. Some useful references: 

You probably have the but not the . In other words, binlogs are updating but queries aren't running. You can verify this with . Execute and then on the slave to restart both IO and SQL. Otherwise, produce any errors in the and the error log, and I will be able to provide further recommendation. 

Sounds like it's your firewall rules, if you're bound to the routable interface as you say. Provide the output of iptables -L -n. 

You may have a difficult time finding a book comparing these practices directly. I am not aware of any. The software development life cycle and IT are often directly intertwined. IT is often responsible for the production environments, which enables proper separation of duties. As such, you should already have some existing external perspective although probably limited. Typically, change control or change management between development and IT are nearly identical, at least when the changes are applied to the system. The differences are in the details, as an Apache upgrade is not going to be deployed the same way as a proprietary application. Nevertheless, all changes deployed to production should follow the same fundamental requirements. Typically, I think of change control as the documentation and audit trail for the following key points in a plan format: 

I like Cisco managed switches. If cost is consideration, as it seems to be, you might even reconsider why you want a managed switch. You can have multiple physical Local Area Networks. For example, you buy or build a router and have it route the traffic between several switches. That's how everyone used to do it before VLANs. I have the hardware lying around to do this now, maybe you do too. 

It sounds like your agents already have their own e-Mail addresses. If you run your own e-Mail server, you can specify the , , and headers to anything you like. Anything more can be handled by the script you use to send the e-Mail. The main issue will be if any of your agents have SPF records configured for their mail servers. If this is the case, some recipients will likely deny the e-Mail if you change the envelope sender. (Return-Path header) In this case, you could have the Return-Path be an e-Mail address that does not have SPF records or that has SPF records configured for the sending SMTP server. Another potential solution would be to setup e-Mail aliases for all your agents and forward them to their existing addresses. 

This is typically addressed on the network layer, where all outbound SMTP would be source NAT'd to the same IP. The definitive source for QMAIL's official distribution is Qmail.org, which is where you could acquire netqmail. netqmail is QMAIL packaged with recommended patches that were commonly applied, as there had not been an official release in a while. There are numerous patches linked on QMAIL's web site, which change the interface binding behavior. I have successfully implemented this patch in a production environment before, which allows different domains to use different IPs. The patch isn't documented that well but I have the following in my notes: 

I would not use SSH tunneling for application traffic unless you have a good reason to. If the application runs on the same server as the database, you should probably use the MySQL socket and disable the networking for MySQL. This is especially true if the server runs directly on the Internet. If you have multiple servers, you can use SSL natively in MySQL to encrypt the traffic in transit. I suspect you are referring to developers in larger environments using SSH tunneling for client connections. Typically, this would be because firewall access is not granted directly to MySQL but is allowed for SSH, where SSH would enable a work-around without increasing the footprint of MySQL. MySQL Using SSL for Secure Connections 

Mounting the filesystem with specified in fstab would probably help. I suspect someone will have a recommendation better suited for your particular application. I begun initial research on filesystems used with flash storage, as I want to custom-build a home theater PC as an appliance. You may find a different storage solution better suited for your device. Unfortunately, I have yet to find something I prefer so I do not have a detailed recommendation there. Edit 1 According to the smb.conf(5) manpage, it supports immediate syncing within SAMBA: 

MySQL does not support replicating from multiple masters to a single slave. If you want to replicate data from multiple masters to a single physical server, you will need multiple instances of MySQL slaving from the different masters. If listening on TCP/IP, you will need to configure them on different ports and specify different locations. 

Typically console output is specified in . Fedora 8 and newer uses rsyslog, which would be . Looks like netfilter (iptables is the userland client) activity to me. 

A well-run infrastructure is going to have the tools, monitoring, and controls in place to largely prevent this. These include: 

I've had an end-user authenticated proxy in place for years and yet to encounter an important situation that did not have a reasonable work-around. Point being, they are rare. In Windows, the utility is often a big help. Work-arounds are often specific to software and depending on the type you may find more help on Superuser. You could use ACLs but authentication usually makes more sense. 

Following that, remove if you don't want to keep a copy. doesn't "overwrite." Using relative paths is a bad habit and will be something that you will easily regret. I recommend using full paths whenever reasonable. 

You could cover most your requirements between XMPP (Jabber), IRC, a "blog," mailing lists, and a wiki. 

You could apply a similar concept routing to the Internet as well, as nmap will identify what ports are filtered. 

If you do not have an existing knowledge base and understand technology, you are unlikely to have much luck even with the aforementioned opportunities. Understanding would be developed by configuring things at home, reading, or even school. Universities often create opportunities where experience can be developed during your education. 

You could use SQUID as a transparent proxy to accomplish this. It doesn't have to be HTTP. But really, you have two different hostnames. You can point them to two different IPs and DNAT the traffic accordingly. 

Only a little, I'd test it or only have it be one of many steps as I'd think the impact would be minimal. The idea is that the cookie will be sent for every request even though it's unnecessary for static content. Check out this document.