Is this an artifact of the PT simulation or is this an expected behavior on a "new" network whose hosts have never communicated with the switch before (ARP resolution?) 

As someone who has done lots of crazy things to get equipment installed on ships at sea: I wouldn't quite call it insane. Improper, yes. Completely crazy (for a temporary solution), no. I have a long run of Ubiquiti Toughcable going from a wiring closet, through a conduit and waterproof gland onto my company's rooftop which connects to a microwave radio link. It's been in place for nearly three years without any issues. I think I am using the Toughcable Pro - no braiding. A surge protector isn't going to help you here, but it would be wise to ground equipment well at both ends, if applicable. But I must ask, why not run the link through your building? Even if you have brick walls in the way or something, it still seems like it'll be easier and maybe quicker in the end. 

I'm sorry to tell you that I believe the answer is no; you can't just insert a comment wherever you want on Procurves. However, for what it's worth, there is a handy way to configure "friendly" port names so you can at least add what amounts to a comment for each port or group of ports. I use this frequently. 

In Packet Tracer 7.0: After directly connecting two switches or a router and switch, pinging the neighboring device always fails on the first one or 2 attempts (i.e. only 4/5 or 3/5 ping attempts are successful.) 

Shouldn't be a problem generally speaking. The ethernet carries digital signals on the wires and the two-pair POTS wires carry analog signals. If crosstalk or other interference did occur I think it would most likely be during ringing of the phone, when current was being drawn through the wire to ring the phone(s). 

This is what I think you're trying to ask: When I have a DHCP network but want a handful of hosts to have static IPs, is it best to reserve the IPs on my DHCP server or set static IPs on the hosts themselves? If that's your question, edit it and I'll take out this paragraph. The only benefit I see of configuring static IPs on select hosts themselves is that the address is permanently set and not relying on the interface's MAC to reacquire the "reserved" IP. However, reserving address already handed out by DHCP is quick and easy and doesn't require any access to the host. For instance, if I put a wireless print server on my WLAN and want it to maintain a specific address but don't care what, I can reserve the address it is assigned without every touching the print server. As an aside, you mention this is a small business. For an office of five or 10 people I would personally set static IPs as a best practice. No DHCP server needed, nothing ever changes, and perhaps it adds just a tiny extra bit of security in that one can't just plug a device into the network and have instant access. 

I don't know what hardware you're specifically talking about here, but modern switches and routers support auto-MDIX which essentially eliminates the need for crossover cables. Since you used a Cisco Catalyst tag, I'll link to this Cisco page. 

The Wago BootP Server should have been able to assign/reassign the device's address. The coupler had some kind of internal short or fault that I was unaware of at the time, so this was a super unusual instance. 

You can change encryption settings on the Sonicwall. If the device's IP is 192.168.0.1, log in with $URL$ to get to the Diagnostic page. 

You are very likely missing a connection on one or more of the eight wires needed for gigabit ethernet or perhaps two are "swapped" i.e. in the wrong places. You could use primitive technology like a multimeter on ohms/resistance function but I would highly suggest borrowing or renting a simple tester. You send a signal through the conductors on one end (battery powered) and the receiver lights up if/when each conductor is connected correctly. $URL$ 

I'm attempting to uplink an older D-Link DGS-1224 switch to an HP Procurve 2810 using a 50 meter MM OM3 fiber cable on the bench before running the cable in the plenum for production. Cable is high quality and brand new. Both transceivers seem to initialize fine in their respective switches but when I connect the LCs on both ends no activity or link is shown. I found by accident that when I press in the LC connector just a bit further than it normally "clicks" into place on the D-Link the link is up and traffic appears to be moving. As soon as I let go to allow the LC connector to return to its normal resting position the link lights go dark again. I also tried using an older orange OM1 or OM2 (don't know) cable which is only 8 meters long and got the same result, including link lights when I press it in a bit further. Has anyone else ever seen something like this before? Is the light not "bright" or powerful enough to be received unless it's closer to the sensor? Should connecting two transceivers and switches made by different vendors be a problem as a general rule? Thanks! 

to check if it's successful. Look for LACP partner = yes on both interfaces 47 and 48 and be sure all interfaces in your team are "up" Check your server to be sure traffic is flowing through both NIC ports. If so, 

To answer some of your basic questions: You only need two devices to establish a site-to-site tunnel. Very often those devices are routers and/or firewalls. Especially in small or medium business a device which is really a router AND firewall in one (an appliance) is used. You don't need a firewall per se, but it would be silly not to have one in place on each end of real production sites because a firewall allows you to configure rules to permit only the type of traffic coming from a specific person/place to traverse your private network. To answer your question about configuring both the router and firewall: Yes, you'll need to build the tunnel and also configure the rules in the firewall to allow the traffic from the trusted site, otherwise your hosts at site A will not be able to communicate to your hosts at site B. Again, the firewall is often the same device as the router, but both areas still need to be configured specifically for what you're trying to acheive in the end. The steps for building a tunnel between sites varies depending on what kind of hardware one uses, but a generic description for Cisco is here. This will give you an idea of what's involved. 

I can't provide brand recommendations, but I would recommend used enterprise-grade hardware. Ebay is a great resource. Managed layer-2 and even layer-3 switches, for instance, can be had for pennies on the original retail dollar, especially if you're willing to work with cosmetically imperfect equipment. I'm not very familiar with TP-Link, but I do know you can buy quality used network hardware for less than new TP gear, and I would enthusiastically recommend doing so. Managed switches are necessary to implement VLANs. Switch0 could utilize a pair of aggregated links to its downlink partners (i.e. SW1) when possible to provide an extra inexpensive and easy-to-configure layer of redundancy and extra bandwidth as well. Switch0 could actually be a pair of switches too. This would give the core itself some extra redundancy. 

You can connect each AP to the controller directly, because you only have two APs and you happen to have two distribution ports on the controller. If you wanted to connect more than two APs to your WLC4402 you would need a switch. The ports that "are not ethernet" actually are ethernet, but you can't plug any cable directly into them. They're called SFP ports, and you must insert a transceiver into the port before it's usable. In your case you probably want to purchase a couple GLC-T copper transceivers so you can use CAT5/6 with a regular RJ-45 connector, although fiber transceivers are also supported by the controller. You could also buy only one SFP transciever and use it to connect the controller to an old switch if you happen to have one. From there you can connect <= 48 APs. Have you read the quick start guide for the WLC? It has a lot of good info!