There are a two ways that CommVault Simpana v9,v10, and v11 restore Microsoft SQL databases, Database Level Restore and Database File/FileGroup Level Restore. Each has variations depending on the desired outcome. See below for details: v10 Microsoft SQL Database Restore Documentation v11 Microsoft SQL Database Restore Documentation Here are some directions that apply to v9, v10, and v11. Default Database Restore (In-Place) By default, a database is restored in the same location from where it was backed up using the CommVault Simpana SQL backup agent and the existing database files are overwritten. This restore leaves the database in an online state. 

Perform the partial restore of all remaining filegroups one by one to restore the entire database. IMPORTANT NOTE: This cannot be done in parallel and must be done sequentially! 

From the CommCell Browser, navigate to Client Computers | Client | SQL Server. Right-click the Instance and then click All Tasks | Browse and Restore. Click View Content. In the right pane of the Browse window, select a non-system database you want to restore and click Recover All Selected. Select the Destination Server from the drop down. Rename the database under the Database column and change the path of the database and log files under the Physical Path column. Select Unconditionally overwrite existing database or files checkbox. Click OK to start the restore. 

From the CommCell Browser, navigate to Client Computers | Client | SQL Server. Right-click the Instance and then click All Tasks | Browse and Restore. In the Restore Options window, click the Advanced Options tab. Select File/File Group and then click View Content. In the left pane of the Browse window, navigate to the database that contains the filegroups you want to restore. Select the filegroups you want to restore in the right pane and click Recover All Selected. Select the Destination Server from the drop down. Rename the database under the Database column and change the path of the database and log files under the Physical Path column. Click Advanced. In the Advanced Restore Options window, click the Options tab. Select the Partial Restore check box. Click OK to start the restore. 

From the CommCell Browser, navigate to Client Computers | Client | SQL Server. Right-click the Instance and then click All Tasks | Browse and Restore. In the Restore Options window, click the Advanced Options tab. Select File/File Group and then click View Content. In the right pane of the Browse window, select the database you want to restore. Click Recover All Selected. Select the Destination Server from the drop down. Rename the database under the Database column and change the path of the database and log files under the Physical Path column. Select Unconditionally overwrite existing database or files checkbox. Click OK to start the restore 

From the CommCell Browser, navigate to Client Computers | Client | SQL Server. Right-click the Instance and then click All Tasks | Browse and Restore. Click View Content. In the right pane of the Browse window, select a non-system database you want to restore and click Recover All Selected. Select Unconditionally overwrite existing database or files checkbox. Click OK to start the restore. 

This will start an immediate restore of the database back to the system from which it was backed up from and the data will be overwritten. Database Restore (Out-Of-Place) A database can be restored to another system that also has the SQL Database Backup Agent installed. This restore mounts the database in an online state on the destination system once the data has been restored. 

If available, an alternative would be to stand up the database in a virtual recovery environment in New Hampshire where the backup data is being stored and route Austin traffic appropriately to the recovered SQL system. This would be much faster to achieve you Recovery Time Objective, however only feasible if you can route traffic appropriately. 

I know this is an old question, but it is the first question that shows up when searching "commvault" on serverfault. I have two years of experience with Commvault Simpana v9 and v10 as a support technician and a year as a systems engineer. First Question 

This will start an immediate restore of the database(s) to the destination system selected and mount the database in an online state. Restore Database using File or FileGroup Level (Out-Of-Place) You can restore a database in its entirety by restoring all the files/filegroups that make up the database. This option does not allow for multiple database selection, however this is to your advantage as File Level restores of Databases are usually limited to a single stream per job. Using multiple Database File Restore jobs you can increase your overall restore throughput and reduce the time needed to restore the entire dataset. Note: If you're restoring a single large database to files it is preferable to break out the individual database files as separate jobs using Performing Partial (Piecemeal) Restore of a Database (Out-Of-Place) 

This will start an immediate restore of the database files to the destination system selected and mount the database in an online state. Performing Partial (Piecemeal) Restore of a Database (Out-Of-Place) If the size of a filegroup in a database is large, the restore operation may take considerable time. In such case, you can restore the database in stages. Partial restores also known as Piecemeal Restore in SQL Server versions 2005 and later allows you to restore a database in stages. Follow the steps given below to restore a database in stages at filegroup level: 

Many pieces of software can do this. I'm not familiar with Mikrotik, but I have used BIND for this on Linux. You can find an overview here. Windows Server 2016 also has the ability to do it, though I believe the configuration for the particular feature you're looking for is via PowerShell only. Find an overview here. I have done DNS views on Cisco IOS routers (!) as well, so if you have one of those around, you could use it too. One limitation, however, is that the TTL on all records is set to 10 seconds, with no way to override it, so I would not advise that. 

In that link you sent, they have a section entitled, Sending mail through corporate mail servers. It describes using a VPN. So you would just relay to a mail server on the inside of your ASA and Google traffic filters wouldn't even see port numbers--they would just see ESP or UDP/500 (ESP over UDP). Concerning two subnets on one tunnel, I can only speak to the ASA side of things. I typically create a one-line access-list that defines two object-groups, then just load up the object-group definitions with the subnets you need to traverse the tunnel. For example: 

We have a domain, say . We use a cloud-based provider for the authoritative servers. We have some customers with an IPSec tunnel that we need to give some of our internal records to. For that we have "semi-public" name servers that give a different IP address for some records, but if those records are not defined on these "semi-public" servers, the response needs to be forwarded to the "real" authoritative servers. We don't want to duplicate every record (there are somewhere around 1,000) in our "semi-public" name servers. We're currently using Cisco IOS (yes, IOS routers have name server capabilities) with views to accomplish this. It works okay but it's a bit flaky and the TTL is always 10 seconds with no way to change it. It also means that only the network engineers and not the server admins have exclusive access (politics suck). I have it working in the lab with BIND using RPZ (Response Policy Zone). However, an unfortunate consequence of that is that the responses never have the authoritative flag set. I'm nervous this will present a problem for some resolvers. I could skip the RPZ feature of BIND and just create a separate zone for every record, but that wouldn't be fun because who wants to maintain somewhere around 100 zones for BIND, just to have one record in each? dnsmasq would work for this, I believe, because it sets the authoritative flag. But unfortunately I'm constrained to something that will run on Windows Server 2012 R2. So I'm asking if anyone knows of a Windows solution (which I consider BIND to be since I can install it on Windows and it runs fine) that will provide authoritative answers to queries within a zone but forward on if a particular record is not defined? Perhaps I'm missing how to do this in BIND or perhaps there's another solution (e.g., Unbound). 

First off, you really only need one subnet mask entry, since they shouldn't be put on the same subnet if they have two different masks. But beyond that, yes, you AND the addresses with the mask, and if you get the same result, they're on the same subnet. 

The only way to do redirection of a web request is using a web server. When a DNS resolver, like the one built into a user's system, requests an address, it gets an address. A CNAME just tells it the other place to get the address from, but it wants an address, period. It will then initiate a request to the web server for the domain it asked for, using the address it got as a means to initiate the TCP connection. There is no connection between your browser and your DNS resolver. Therefore, what you are asking for is not possible in a pure DNS scenario, even using DNAME (which is just CNAME on a bigger scale). I am not familiar with the configuration of nginx, but in apache, you can create a virtual host to service domain-b. The top virtual host acts as a "catch-all" for any other way the site is accessed. You can redirect all those catch-alls to domain-b using some rewrite rules. So you can capture aze.domain-x.com, or aze.domain-y.com, etc, and grab the host part and redirect it to aze.domain-b.com. You'll have to use some regex, etc, but it's the right way to do it. See Apache 2.4 Redirecting and Remapping with mod_rewrite. I'm sure nginx has the same functionality, though perhaps executed in a different way. 

I would start by disabling the Windows firewall (temporarily) altogether. Also, you can do a packet capture on the server to verify that the attempts to tcp/445 are getting there at all... something like assuming that 192.168.1.10 is the client machine and interface is the server NIC in question (run to get a list of NICs on the server). You can get WinPcap and WinDump from Riverbed. 

I think some clarification needs to take place. SPF records are for mail being sent out from you. It applies to the zone that mail is being sent from (i.e., the "domain" part of the address). If your domain is and you're sending a message from a "normal mail client" as , you would have a TXT/SPF record for . If you're sending mail from your web server as , that one TXT/SPF record will cover that just fine, provided the IP addressing information you specify is correct (e.g., covers your web server and your mail server). Let's say your mail server is 52.56.221.36 and your web server is 52.56.221.37. You could have two separate entries in your TXT record: and (or if you want to use CIDR, just . You would only need a special "www" TXT/SPF record if you were sending mail from web.server@www.example.com. In that case, I would suggest having only one "main" TXT/SPF record, but just refer to it from your www record. In BIND it might look like this: