Note that not all files in a project are necessarily just text. Some projects require, for example, graphical files to show design. 

Mistakes should be corrected, but the how can be finessed. You are already correct in giving the private feedback to each student, but you can add an additional level to the game. Instead of you correcting the student in the live session or later, part of each student's total work product is to produce a report on their own that is distributed to the class soon after the presentation. Much of this can be prepared prior to the presentation and only updated after your private feedback. In it, you can require that the student correct any known defects in the presentation explicitly. They can admit to having made a mistake and provide the correct information without any confession of guilt or error. The info was wrong - here is the real skinny. There are a lot of reasons for misstatements in a public presentation. You and I make them as well, and we correct them as we can. With students (and new teachers) some of this is actually just a result of stress. So the correction shouldn't increase the stress or give the student any reason to feel bad about themselves. The correction comes from them, even though it was information from you, perhaps, that set them straight. To simply let it go, misleads the other students of course, so that is a poor solution. But lowering self esteem is also a poor solution. Make the experience a positive one, even though the student is cleaning up her/his own mess. The written report has an additional benefit, of course, as students need to practice technical writing in any case. 

Are your students in general good at those sorts of things already or would this be a first for the first two at least. Those kinds of things are worth doing, so if they don't have such experience then you have something nice for them already. However, students also need to be able to 

More valuable than SO is asking your teacher to help get you over the hard bits. He or she can evaluate what it is you really need and either answer the question or send you off on a quest. So again, not the same as an Oracle. 

I'm going to jump the gun a bit here and make a suggestion with less than complete information. Assuming that the students have seen a fair amount of Java and its libraries and also assuming that the book they used isn't terrible on OO concepts then I'd suggest that you run a project course. There are a fair number of possibilities for projects One is to use your own doctoral research interest as stated in your profile and have students build a software system to solve fair cutting problems. Another possibility is to use an old APCS Case study that was quite well developed and used for a few years in the APCS course in the US: Grid World. The study comes with a starting code base and a student manual. You might also join the Greenroom and look at the various projects available there. It is also a community of educators who might be able to offer assistance. The Greenroom resources use the greenfoot IDE which is simple but complete, but the advantage in your situation is the various projects that you might be able to develop into a course. The BlueJ IDE is a bit more sophisticated and the community there also publishes a number of projects via the Blueroom. Many of them might be considered as the basis of a project course. Of course, another consideration is how well you know Object-Oriented programming yourself, as you don't say. If you are less than an expert, you might consider for yourself to look at something like Polymorphism: As It Is Played by Joseph Bergin. I don't think it would be suitable for a course text, but it might give you some background in OO thinking if you haven't already acquired it. I also note that in a project course you have the opportunity to introduce students to some of the additional personal practices they will need as they advance, such as teamwork and, perhaps, pair programming and test first development. Moreover, to ease your own workload, a project course could be very flexible, with students starting work on early requirements while you develop later ones. I'm thinking of something like an agile methodology here, of course, with yourself as the students' "customer". 

For the former, you can type up notes as you go. Try to focus on the main points, not the detail. Leave lots of references in your notes so that you can easily return to the source as needed. However, if your objective is to actually learn the material from an operational perspective - using it - then typing up notes doesn't help nearly as much. Writing out things long hand is much better - but you may need to practice with the pen. And the fact that it is slow is also an advantage, since you engage with the material over a longer period. If you are studying for a field in which you want to become a professional, take notes by hand with a pen on good paper. In fifty years you will still be able to use those notes whereas the computer notes are likely inaccessible. The reason for long hand writing (even printing) is that your brain is more engaged in the process than it is with typing. That is how you learn - engaging the brain, not the motor muscles in your hands (unless you are learning a physical act like rock climbing or a martial art, where muscle memory is equally important. Moreover, to learn some subjects you need to also use the knowledge you are gaining. In math you solve a lot of problems. In CS you write a lot of programs. I History you pose a lot of theses. Whatever is appropriate, but it involves problem solving and creation in some way. See $URL$ for additional comments, including the other answers to the same question. If you search this site for "changing the brain" other hints will reveal themselves. 

Please don't weaponize these comments against your faculty. It won't do you much good to be seen as a contrarian. 

While, in general, I prefer that students on a team get the same grade for the work (see below) I also ask each student on a team to fill out a questionnaire at the end. The questions are simple. Assuming a team of about five, I'll ask each student to name the three most valuable members of the team and to list the contribution of each. They may name themselves as one of the three and are told that. I also ask each "What was your own principal contribution?". For a pair, I ask each, to give the partners main contribution and their own. 

The effect of this technique should result in the goals suggested in the answer of CandiedOrange here. 

This describes another possible model of an honors program that may be feasible internationally. Students normally take a certain set of classes. For those in the honors program, some of those may be specially designed just for them. These courses go beyond the normal requirements in some significant way, perhaps including additional research. However, in this model the key feature is that it is possible for a professor and a student to form a contract in a "normal" course that transforms it into an honors course. The contract will involve additional work of some kind appropriate for the course. The student does the normal work of the course and the fulfills the additional requirements as well. The work might involve additional research and/or writing, up to and including publication. The professor judges the student work as usual and assigns or withholds the honors designation at completion. The work should ensure that the student attains some deeper understanding of the topic of the course, rather than just preforming additional tasks. A student in the honors program, in this model, may have a minimal number of such special courses or not. Typically, if the overall curriculum of the student does not require a thesis, the honors student will write on to achieve honors at graduation. For those who are normally required to write a thesis, some additional requirements might be imposed, such as publication, or at least submission for publication. Managing such a program is a bit challenging. Someone with a deep commitment to the philosophy should be available to assist faculty and students in setting appropriate standards for each such course. A faculty member may be able to amortize the work of guiding such a course over more than one term/student or not. Such a program could, in fact, be used as part of a program of training future teachers. Some of the additional tasks of an honors course might be teaching part of the course itself, or a closely related course. If this is used, I would assume that the teaching would be supervised and even assisted by the guiding professor.