After getting your error messages, go to: Sonicwall's Knowledge base and enter in the error message in the search string. Usually the error messages are in all capitals, like: NO_PROPOSAL_CHOSEN. In my experience, most of the problems come down to the setup of the VPN parameters not matching up between each end of the tunnel. Specifically the ID used for the local and peer IKE IDs. It is our practice to always use the SonicWALL Identifier as this is the most reliable. Good luck 

Most installations of qmail put the tcp.smtp files in /etc. If the file does not exist, then you probably have not installed tcpserver which is installed with the ucspi package. Was this a pre-installed rpm of qmail, or did you install yourself? If you installed yourself, installing ucspi was a pre-requisite... After installing ucspi, you can use the commands below to turn your tcp.smtp file into a cdb file that qmail can read. 

That should fix your issues with the SID. In case you can't re-run sysprep /generalize and re-clone, I have also had success with adding a machine to the domain, reboot, remove it, then delete the machine account via AD Users and Computers. Then reboot again and add the machine again. Sometimes, it takes 2 attempts. 

In your Spamassassin local.cf file (usually located in /etc/mail/spamassassin) add the following line: 

In addition to the "Enable Ping from LAN to Management Interface" already answered... You need to enable "Management via this SA" in the VPN properties. I believe this is off by default. 

Do you have any ability to take a sniff of the traffic? You need to find out what the traffic is and what host(s) are sending it. Are you sharing files on this site? Do you have an open/insecure FTP server that someone could be feeding data to? How about email, is it hosted on this site? Some outlook clients will never give up sending a message with certain non-fatal errors. In short, we need more information to help you troubleshoot. 

Just like with webservers, the answer is "depends". You will need to monitor the amount of queries hitting your DNS servers to determine if you need to move to suggestion 2. On, the other hand, for most domains, two nameservers will be plenty. The bigger bottleneck will be the web traffic, not the DNS responses. 

and kill the pid associated with your open socket, even if it is bash or sh. Also, you mentioned that most of the time SIGTERM works. If that's the case, your app should catch the SIGTERM and jump into some graceful exit code that RSTs all open connections and then closes the socket. HTH 

I am not positive without more details, but I would be checking for permission problems on the volume sendmail is using for its mail queue. Sendmail acts like it can't write anything, either incoming mails or bounces... Also, here is a link on savemail panic that discusses that your aliases file might need to be rebuilt. 

Not to question your setup, but it seems like a bad idea to put the hosts outside your firewall. If they get hacked, all your VMs are now owned by the hacker... Rather, you should put the ESX Host on the private side of the firewall and then make a DMZ vSwitch within the ESX host. You should be able to do this easily by physically setting one of the NIC cards in your ESX Host outside the firewall and including ONLY that card in your DMZ vSwitch -or- you can use VLANing, if you have an ethernet switch that supports it, and combine the DMZ network with other networks on your vSwitch and take advantage of existing NICs in your ESX Host(s). 

What hardware are you using for your NICs? Is it on the vSphere compatibility list? If not, vSphere may not be able to use an appropriate driver that would enable it to use VLANs and other features of a vSwitch. 

Michael, We have been Sonicwall users for a decade or so, and we have fought with this issue for that entire time. What you are trying to do is not possible with a Sonicwall. You can limit the total bandwidth to a particular protocol or port number, but not by per session. We currently have an NSA2400 with the application firewall, and it is still an aggregate limit rather than a per-session limit. That being said, you can setup a low QOS on the HTTP protocol so that any other protocol will take precedence. This won't get anyone else's browsing to be any faster, but it won't kill email or real-time streaming (unless it's http). One other solution, is to put certain offenders in a user group and limit them to some fraction of your total bandwidth and all the non-offenders would still have the remaining fraction left over for browsing. This would require users to login into the firewall before browsing, unless your 3060 has LDAP integration. If it does, then you could setup groups in your Active Directory and then the user won't have to login in each time... 

His outlook.pst is large (~2.2GB), though we have many other users with .pst files bigger without this trouble. Googleing suggests that an add-in like Google Desktop or MS Search could be causing the problem. He has never had any extra add-ins installed... Just in case, I have disabled all the build-in add-ins from the trust center, except for VBA, which is required for some auto-updating spreadsheets we use for contact management... Any ideas would be appreciated. 

Maybe you should partition the 10K RPM drive into two partitions and put your VMs on one partition and your host's swap file on the other partition? If you were using ESX, then then the best practice is that the VMs get the 10K RPM drive. BTW, if you are really concerned about performance in a VM situation, you really should run ESX or ESXi (which is free) 

Does the printer support native PostScript. Many printers only have PostScript emulation. The actual printing engine does not "think" in PostScript and so you lose some definition in comparison to a true PostScript printer. A lot of HP printers (not sure about the 2605) only do emulation. Do your users need PostScript? If they are printing mostly office documents (Word, Excel) PCL will be the best. There are normally far fewer options on a PCL driver, which makes it simpler for an enduser. If your users are printing out graphical presentations or lots of pictures and are very picky about the final product, then I would go with a PostScript driver, but only if it is a true PostScript printer... 

Without a VLAN capable (managed) switch, you aren't going to be able to achieve your goal. You need to be able build a VLAN between your Internet pipe and your WLAN. To do this, you are going to have to have a firewall with VLANing capability -or- another physical port on the firewall and assign the VLAN to the switch port the firewall is plugged into... As far as whether your "dumb" switch will respect the VLAN tagging, it won't. The most it can do is not remove the tagging. Can you give us the exact model of it so we can look it up for you? Even if it does not remove the tagging, it's not going to actually VLAN the traffic for you... PS. If you register on Serverfault with the same ID you used on SO, it should let you edit your posts. Right now, you are showing up as UnKnown. 

Yes, I believe it is a reasonable request, however it suggests that the hosting service is allowing people to use their SMTP service for SPAM, which is why RBLs are saying her emails are SPAM. Anyway, as long as her ISP can add her domain to the SPF records on their DNS server, it should not increase the probability that mail from her domain via her ISP's SMTP server will get tagged as SPAM. 

Multipathing may be causing your issue. Are you able, and have you tried, to disable multipathing and just have one 1Gb connection to your SAN? VMware may be path thrashing when put under load because of a bad link, or a delay in packet delivery... BTW, your maximum throughput with a 1Gb link is going to be ~30MBytes/sec if your SAN and ESXi host were the only two devices on that link... 

You can add other options, but make sure the /L is there, or it will actually merge the two trees instead of just comparing the differences. 

Performance wise, this actually increases the load on your server. You are still running a hypervisor of some sort, which takes up CPU/RAM etc. Also, Windows is perfectly capable of balancing the workload between applications.However, I agree with Jes, that it will provide you isolation between your SQL environment and the rest of your Windows services, but 

The only way to do this with a PAT firewall is to bind another IP address to the external interface of your firewall. Use this second IP to forward TCP 1723 to your second Win2K3 box. 

I think you should reuse the names if the machine is attached to a user. For example, we name our computers using the full name of the person who is the primary user. This makes it easy to find the computer and connect to it for diagnostics etc. Also, it does not require you to walk the user through cmd -> ipconfig to get the IP address. It also make inventory a breeze. For servers, there is no attachment to the name unless users are used to UNC path names... How many of your users use UNC paths regularly? 

The NetBackup agent for Exchange is what you need/want. Here is a link for a white paper discussing the options. 

This must be an issue with earth not being able to resolve either the MAC address of mars, mercury or neptune or another option is that it's a layer 3 (ip layer) issue, like routing as mentioned in bioanarchism's post. To check these things, go to a command line (cmd from the run line):