as well as windirstat as suggested by bot403, i also use jdiskreport for graphical representations of which folders are taking up your space actually i'd say that 10GB is probably about right for a vanilla Win2008r2 Standard Edition install 

Assuming you mean Oracle VirtualBox VM, have a read of this section of the manual: $URL$ Essentially by using NAT, your VM's will need to be on the subnet chosen by your VirtualBox installation. VirtualBox has a DHCP server which will allocate addresses automatically which is why you can access the internet from your VMs. AD/DNS will need to be on a static address on this subnet, not DHCP. I would start by pinging the IP address and not the name too. 

Active Directory Migration Tool (google admt 3.2) will do a lot of legwork for you in terms of user/computer account migration (including deploying agents to remotely reboot computers to join a new domain!). You just need to ensure an forest-level trust is in place. As for the scripts (how many??), i'd just take a copy of them and redeploy them on the new domain. 

looks like this was intended behaviour, but a workaround is shown here essentially you build a variable containing a list of the folders you want to exclude... 

Transport rule would do it, it is ridiculous, but any question deserves an answer. I would just add an exception for when the email body contains the disclaimer text. There's enough flexibility in the transport rules to do whatever you want. 

Another alternative to robocopy could be the File Server Migration tool. I'ev used this to migrate FS data from NT4 to 2003 in the past. Not only does it migrate permissions but it will migrate your shares. 

EDIT: There is a class for specific partitions: Win32_DiskPartition this does contain an property. The property will give you both the disk and partition id (but you will have to parse it). 

no it doesn't apply the increased complexity requirement for current passwords, it will when they expire/reset. $URL$ 

I think you will need to enable Named Pipes in Configuration Manager and restart the services. Also start the SQL Browser service. 

I'm not sure there is a partition number as such. A list of the WMI classes (e.g. LogicalDisk) that you can inspect is here: MSDN If you're using Windows 7 the Powershell alternative is: 

You can add an additional email address to the Owner's account once the exchange account is disabled to catch any new mail. 

...concerns me a little. Especially when the rest of the error says your AD server is 'server.techsoft.local'. It looks like exchange is trying to query AD with 'MAILSERVER\Administrator' (local admin) which AD would have no knowledge of (unless AD is local to the machine and the domain actually is 'MAILSERVER' making Administrator the domain administrator...). Can you check the user roles on the server (Organization Configuration screen)? Have you run the BPA tools in the toolbox? 

I've been playing with VoIP IP PBX solutions for a few months, but I'm trying to find a solution that will allow for the following: 

transfer the FSMO roles to the new server, then demote the old server using dcpromo again you may also want to check the replication status of your new server using 

EDIT Now you have the right port it appears to be a protocol problem. I would verify that the proxy_ajp_module is loading correctly: 

on the command line will give you the version and build number. For 2008 R1/R2 in particular you can always check the build number: $URL$ Although it's a bit harder to detect 2003 R1/R2, not sure if you want to? EDIT: If you want build number or a plain text version number then you can also check the registry: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion 

have you created a separate batch file for each service? have you changed all references to the lock files and directories this file references? you can create a copy of service.bat and use this to install the second service, but there are several references to: 

Active Directory domains don't maintain 'session state', it's just a directory, you won't be able to retrieve a list of logged in users. You can get the last login date of each user but would require a script to check every domain controller in your domain (script link). 

Sounds like you might want a distributed file system $URL$ I had a Grid project and we had to built a compute cluster and decided to use OpenAFS which is the only one I know. It kinda sucks from a learning point of view cause its not easy imo. However that link I posted has a list of them. Some support replication and striping (fault tolerant and parallel. Just research those and pick one that you like). 

One way would be to install a free VNC server/client on each machine. www.tightvnc.com . They would then login to each machine to see that machine. a free two way non setup way to see someone elses computer is $URL$ . However I believe this is only good for 1 to 1 at most. Now instead of having multiple machines login you can broadcast your desktop using $URL$ . However this only works on the LAN I believe. 

I don't see why a temporary password should expire? If the user never logs in then it shouldn't expire because the user needs to select the new one so he/she knows it. According to this on the first access of a record by a user, the user will have to change it on first authentication $URL$ are you saying the user can ignore changing it when he first logs back in? 

They probably mean set the block size to 4k. $URL$ I think the default used to be 512Bytes for a lot of file systems but people moved to using 4k. There should be a way of setting it when you create the filesystem. 

You can write a script that parses the log file of say ftp daemons such as vsftpd and proftpd and do something once it finds a line that matches what you want. However it would be different for each daemon as each has their own log style. On top of which, there will be delay as you will probably have to poll the file to see if its changed. A perhaps more portable solution and better response time would be to make a PAM module(WAY MORE WORK THOUGH) A lot of daemons have PAM support built in. so when someone logs into ssh for instance it will query PAM and the PAM config will pick for the login whether LDAP or UNIX file. then it has like password modules like cracklib to check if it works. it short you can append this line to the pam config of the particular service once you make a pam module. session required /lib/security/pam_yourmodule.so $URL$ for a quick primer on PAM. 

If the hosting company is not the registrar you can go bug them. However most likely it is in which case you have to deal with the hosting company. Redemption period means that even tho its expired the domain you can still retrieve it from the registrar. I am surprised they are not agreeing to it. You can go to $URL$ and list a complaint. Nothing will happen probably but it will be a stain on their record. You could get a technical lawyer and see if you can send a nasty gram to them. Companies tend to listen when threat of litigation looms over them. However, it probably isn't worth the money and waiting would be a good bet. With the changes ICANN made domains are not being squatted nearly as much anymore since it costs them money now. 

Just install the custom ones into /OPT/ . Webhosts had different versions of php before and they have different versions of python. You could just call the different one using the shell script declaration like #!/opt/pytho3/python 

I was wondering if I am editing a file such as /etc/hosts or /etc/sysconfig/network should I put a . at the end of the name. such as test.example.com. Is there a difference? Would anything break either way. 

if you want a script to start once at startup and theoretically it stays up then you should add it as a service to init.d with the appropriate runlevel set. Of course if it should go down then you would want to to come back up. to do that you can have a shell script run ps -aux | grep 'nameOfYourScript' like that. Of course don't include the grep command which will match as well lol. have that script check every five minutes with a cron like this */5 * * * * user checkScript.sh the checkScript you make could be written to start up the program.