I was sent here from Photography Stack Exchange. I'm looking for a portable hard drive enclosure (2.5" notebook) that plugs into an SD card slot and LOOKS like an SD card to the camera. The obvious advantage being unlimited space for video recording. But where it really comes in handy (and crucial) is when you factor in how long it takes to transfer a giant multi-GB video file from the camera's SD card to a hard drive. As far as I can tell, the fastest possible setup maxes at about 20MB/s. (Similar to how Eye-Fi works) 

I'm looking for a "one-click" way of taking ANY PDF and converting it to plain text. Ideally on OSX or Linux. Ideally, the solution would include OCR functionality, but it need not necessarily. The top priority is having something that can take ANY file WITHOUT configuration. 

Let's say I have a Mac with 128GB of RAM and no SSD. Could I somehow configure OSX to use the RAM as an SSD, i.e. as part of a Fusion Drive? Note: manually making a Fusion Drive is described here: $URL$ 

Most recent check for updates was 1 minute ago (2:49 PM EST). I have checked to ensure that I have Win 8.1's latest update. I am not running Enterprise Edition. This is a brand new PC. On my older 8.1 (with worse specs), I had no issues. What step(s) am I missing? 

There is a link on how to opt out and a close button. Following the link tells you to go to the settings and click "Stop Insider builds." And if that doesn't work, to reinstall the previous OS. Update settings are set to automatic, and the device states says it is up to date. Under the tab, it says I need to "Connect to the Internet to Activate Windows" and then under the section there is a link to "Install the latest version of Windows." Which takes me to a link in the Windows store, which says: 

I often find myself wanting to NOT multitask on Windows - or just have the machine devote as much as possible to a couple important programs, like photoshop. I really enjoy using openbox under Lubuntu, and have found that I can get good performance out of old machines. I know how to disable startup programs and minimize the number of programs (and processes) running, but I was wondering if there were a way to make windows open only what I need for a couple of programs. I want to get back to my regular PC for general use, but it'd be great to have a "photoshop OS" or just a browser for when I need to look up something fast. I'm not necessarily looking for a specific program, I'm looking for a way to devote as much processing power as possible to a couple of programs in a no-distractions environment, and preferably manage these environments and choose which I'd like at startup. I'm running Windows 8 (and 10), HP Pavilion G6. 

We'd like some sort of program that redirects all reads/writes to port 5938, to port 59000. It has to work in both directions, kind of like a "port tunnel". Is this possible? 

If you want cloud backup, then I prefer Amazon S3 plus some backup program such as 2BrightSparks SyncBackPro or CloudBerry. They will both handle synchronization issues seamlessly (SyncBackPro has more powerful features, however its not as easy to use out of the box). 

Macro Express Pro will be able to do this for you. It has a very nice graphical language that allows you to drag sequences of commands onto a list. I've been using it for about 5 years, it powerful enough to do just about anything you can imagine, including this task. Suggest setting the "activation" to "clipboard", add a command to copy the contents of the clipboard to a variable, then switch focus to your target program, paste it in, then switch focus back. I've just finished writing a big a big macro to do the same thing as you're describing, to copy text from a web page into a document for safe keeping whenever I hit a hotkey. 

I just bought a new Dell Win 8.1 PC last week. I want to upgrade it to Win 10. For some reason, the Get Windows 10 App is not appearing in the tray, nor the GWX process in the task manager. I downloaded the troubleshooter from the Windows KB topic. It says that my version of windows is not up to date: 

Original question for extra details and preserved for posterity: I have an ASUS Windows 8.1 PC that I upgraded to 10 near the beginning to 10TP releases. In the last few days, I have been getting the following message: 

Updated question: I have an Asus PC, Windows 8.1 OEM. It was for someone who absolutely needed a start menu, so I jumped on the Win10TP when it first came out about a month after we got the PC. I believe I used the key provided by microsoft to get it running. Now that MS is expiring the TP builds, I get a BSOD every 3 hours and messages as copied below. I am unable to install full Win10 from the media creation tool. I am unable to downgrade to Win8.1 and do an upgrade, since Win10TP overwrote the recovery portion, which it warned of at installation. The activation says that I have 10 Pro Insider Preview and that I need to go online to activate it. The store says it needs to update in order to activate, but won't update. I assume that Microsoft has locked out updates for expiring TP builds, as the computer is perpetually "up to date", even when I change to the "fast" ring. I also used the System Restore prompt to try to revert as far as I could, but still get the same error. I have retrieved my product key using Nirsoft's tool (as recommended elsewhere due to Asus' remarkable inability to provide keys/genuine windows stickers), but of course it is a Win8.1 key and entering it into the Win10 Media Creation tool gives an error. Is there a way to make the computer usable again "in-place" - without downloading the 8.1 recovery image, burning an ISO, and reinstalling from scratch? Installing Ubuntu is not an option on this machine, as it isn't mine, and we bought it with Windows on it from Staples. Since we bought it new from a Big Box store, I am reasonably certain that the copy of Windows and product key are genuine. 

I'm looking for a way (hopefully built into OSX) to make two files always stay together. The purpose: give every file used in my classes (mostly PDFs and PPTs) a "summary file" -- which could just be an RTF I edit in TextEdit. The point is for the two files (a text and my summary of it) to always be linked together. 

I have a Time Machine backup folder on an external drive. I'm done using Time Machine forever, and I just want to access those files in Finder without all the restrictions placed on "backup" files. Is there a terminal command I can run to give me all permissions to delete, move, etc? 

Is there a package for getting an accurate reading on the current total battery power usage in Watts on any system? 

I have a desktop with a high-res display and laptop with a low-res display. Can the laptop log into the desktop and display its screen as if it were low-res? -- as if I had a low-res second monitor connected to the desktop. I'm not talking about shrinking the pixels or cutting off the screen with scrollbars (as is default in Chicken of the VNC) 

Yes, the new SSE4.2 instruction set in the Intel i7 and Intel Xeon X5650 can be used to speed up compression. Given that my CPU usage is 3% while simultaneously compressing three 2TB hard drives, Win7 is almost certainly using SSE4.2 behind the scenes for NTFS sector level compression. See Power Savings with Hardware based GZIP Compression, Tony Summers et. al., AHA Products Group, Comtech EF Data Corporation. 

PowerPoint 2007 used to display a list of miniature slides down the left hand side, which could be used for navigation and cut/paste. This list has disappeared - any ideas on how to get it back? I've been through every option on the Ribbon, multiple times, and can't seem to find the option to turn this back on. 

Try logging in with a user account that has Administrator privileges. You can check your privileges in the "Control Panel" and "User Accounts" section. 

Right click in the blank area below the flower, and select "Properties", then play with the settings to switch the files back on. 

I'd like some automated method of converting the following URL into a format I can read on my Kindle (i.e. .mobi or PDF). $URL$ The output would have to have the first level of articles included (about 10 blog entries).