This image shows some problems with the filesystem... i believe the SD might become corrupted anytime soon... It took a pounding already, so no surprise there... Then, there's the configuring network interfaces, again, problems related to the locales... I don't know what to think of this. Also, there is an error referring to init.d 

After this I updated the rc.d defaults with : I can't be sure, but I think after this it didn't boot... I also tried at some point using a cronjob and I'm pretty sure I forgot the & at the end to run on a different thread. I tried editing the cron from the SD card though and nothing changed... How can I disable these boot scripts directly from the SD Card so i can boot the Pi again and fix this? I've been going through the logs, but I'm not sure what to look for... I'm running Raspbian. Anything else that I can get from the SD card and can help you, just ask and I'll post it here. EDIT: After posting this question I realised that ike goldilocks said, creates simlinks in the runlevel directories, which I proceded to remove all that refered to my script. Like I said in a comment to his answer, I once used the following script in to update the ssh (I'm posting the whole to prevent people from saying it misses the ): 

You can even add a toggle button on the taskbar for easy access(see lower right hand corner of picture below). Here is a complete guide to setting it up. 

In the latest version of Raspbian (kernel 4.4), any file I stream through to or using the 3.5mm headphone jack works perfectly. However, in Firefox when I go to any site, it will play the video fine but the only sound you get is a loud static hissing sound regardless of whether you use the 3.5mm or HDMI audio output. This happens on sites that use like Youtube and sites that don't like Putlocker which uses . How can I fix this? EDIT: If I stream media through this issue disappears. However, I believe uses . EDIT2: I installed chromium-browser and it works perfectly on youtube and other sites with the audio and the video, I believe its a firefox issue but I am still unsure what is causing it. 

I searched that error and found an Arch Wiki and their suggestion was that either pulseaudio-bluetooth is not installed or pulseaudio needs to be restarted, or the module should be loaded with . I already have the first installed, the second did not work, and the last gave access denied. 

I'm using ffmpeg on my Raspberry Pi (running on Raspbian) to record a 5 seconds long video at 12 fps from my webcam. It's not the Raspberry Pi dedicated webcam, just a regular USB one. This is the command I use: 

Well, I found a pretty decent solution. I basically use both together. I think the reason why ffmpeg was so slow, is that it already starts encoding before the recording even finishes. So let's say, a couple of frames were captured from the webcam so far, and ffmpeg already starts encoding those. On a regular computer, this would mean that it finishes more quickly, because it does things simultaneously. On the Pi however, this is reason why it's so slow. The Pi does not have enough horsepower to record and encode at the same time, so things will get very slow. Maybe it runs out of ram, and has to use some swap space (which is terribly slow due to the SD card I/O). This also results in some dropped frames and stutter in the final outcome. So the solution is to first record an avi file, which doesn't really require much encoding, it's very light on the CPU, therefore, it's done very quickly. Then after it's done, use ffmpeg to convert the file into mp4. This works very well! Here are the exact commands I use: 

You can use ssh to connect to the Pi. I believe this works with noobs and I guarantee it works with Raspbian. Plug the Pi into your modem via an ethernet cable and connect your laptop to the modem also. Open a terminal on the Ubuntu machine and type ssh pi@ipaddress where ipaddress is the address of the Pi(You can find it in the connected device section on your modem). Then, enter pi and raspberry and you are connected. 

I would like to get rid of all external components on my Pi so as to make it portable. I have a GPIO attached touchscreen. Is there a software keyboard that I could use that: 

To turn the backlight off through software you could follow this tutorial by adding (see tutorial for full setup). This would be put in the if clause above right after . This would make the screen turn off at the same time that it blanks out. To turn it back on you would put the line in the function above in the file right after . 

As you can see, they are all symlinks but the README file. So, I just got access to an HDMI TV that I used as a monitor for the pi, for the lack of a better medium, here are some screenshots and what I think might be happening: 

I messed up the boot on a raspberry pi that is meant to run an important project. It started when I was trying to get a script to run at boot. I tried creating a daemon and I successfully started and stopped the script using: 

It currently boots to a point where I can ping it from my computer, but I can't ssh to it... After the edits i can say: is not even running (the SSHFLAG was not deleted and IPFLAG was not created. I can still ping to the pi though...) The pi shows activity on the SD Card and the ethernet port Like mazianni asked, the content of my inittab (confirms default runlevel is 2): 

From what I understand, it is not possible to connect any 1 wire interface type component in other than the GPIO pin 4. I've been looking into this myself and have not found a solution. But for your solution, if you really don't want to use the 1 wire interface, you should think of another sensor, even if analog, use something like an MCP3008 and you can "talk to the pi" via serial interface and transmit analog readings. 

The outcome is fine, but the time it takes is unacceptable. For this tiny 5 seconds long 640x480 clip, it takes about 2 minutes to complete converting and everything. I understand that the Pi is not exactly a beast of a computer, but I think it really could do better. As you can see, I use a ram disk to eleminate the bottleneck of the SD card I/O, but even so, it's very slow. Do you have any ideas on how to make this faster? I know about , it does a great job and it's very fast (the file is almost immediately available after the recording was finished), but unfortunately I could only get it to output avi format, which is not what I need. I need the recording to be either mp4 or mov format. I know that can theoretically output mov, but I couldn't get it to do so. So basically I need a solution that's able to record footage from and output it in mp4 or mov format relatively fast. 

the problem with this was when I added this to and the actual script to This is the content of the script (I did it according to a tutorial, so I'm not expecting the problem to come from here): 

The first stop is a locale related issue. I have had locale issues before, but they didn't keep me from booting. I find it strange thought the message: It says then that it cannot remove the same file 

After trying this, I was successful and I can read the 3 sensors. I'm posting this answer as a reference if someone bumps into this question, thank you all for your help anyway :) 

It finally cleans up temps, Sets up ALSA, and then it hangs... I don't know what was supposed to happen after this as i had never witnessed a pi boot screen. 

Problem solved. I found online that I had to change the raspi.list file to read "deb $URL$ wheezy main untested" and then run apt-get update and apt-get upgrade. Then running: 

I am running a custom version of Raspbian on my B+ with a touchscreen. This OS was customized to work with the WaveShare SpotPear A screen they sell. It is configured to auto login to to the desktop as the pi user. I wan't to disable that so I tried the following: 

After letting the board alone it still would not work. Moral of the story: if you are powering your pi over the 5v rail be very careful and don't assume anything. 

Try this command: This will give you all the gifs on the system. I doubt there will be that many and you can find which one is the animation for the boot screen. 

I wanted my RPI to boot to the GUI so I set it up in raspi-config. However, now it boots into the pi user without a password. Is there a way to make it boot to a login screen where you can choose a user to login to? EDIT I was confused I didn't mean startx. I went to raspi-config window and chose boot to desktop and it is giving me this problem. 

I made this a while ago to be an all-around, header-only solution for GPIO on the Pi. No libraries to install or anything like that. I use this in every project that needs GPIO. Even though this is C++ (11), it does have a useful implementation of the polling method. You can't specify a callback function though, the way it works is it simply doesn't return until it detects an interruption (so you might have to run this on multiple threads to handle multiple buttons). It doesn't deal with debouncing though, but that's not that hard to do (just simply check the value again after a couple of milliseconds). Here it is: $URL$ Here's a quick sketch on how to use it: 

This would print out "Button pressed!" every time you push the button. It's very simple, this is all the code you need for it (other than including the header file of course). 

I added some more options to ffmpeg to further speed up the process. The speed is quite acceptable now, and the outcome is smooth as well.