Uninstalled and reinstalled QB with clean install, including using the Clean Install tool. Repaired the installation Re-registered QB in the registry using the reboot.bat tool in the QB folder. Ran sfc /scannow -- no errors found 

Did you image the drive? If you created an ISO image, you can mount it, boot from it, and retrieve the key from the registry. Here's an example of how you can do that: $URL$ 

Click the Windows Start button and type “index”. When the field populate select “Indexing Options”. Click the Modify button and select the locations you want to index. 

My Windows Store has gone missing since the last update. I found these instructions to reinstall it but when I run the script I get this error: 

The problem is not the data file because I get the same response whether opening the data file or a sample data file. I confirmed this by installing QB2010 on my laptop and the program registered successfully and opened the data file with no problems. The application event logs show these errors: 

I checked and the folder C:\Program Files\WindowsApps\Microsoft.WindowsStore_2015.25.5.0_neutral_split.scale-100_8wekyb3d8bbwe\ does not exist. How do I resolve this error? 

In fact, the file was not transferred and I received a "file not found" error in the TFTP log. However, when I tried again like this, 

The instructions for doing so were obtained here (everything is the same except I am using the 64 bit version). When I run the command, which I found here, I get the error shown in the image. Nothing appears in the TFTP logs, so it looks like the connection is failing. Now, I tested the TFTP installation by opening a command prompt and going to a local folder and applying the command like this: 

When I attempt to log into the Solarwinds MailAssure console from within my corporate LAN, I receive an error that basically says I cannot log in due to too many failed attempts. This occurs even if it is my first attempt. Then if I click on the link to request a password reset I am emailed a link to click that gets me right into the site, and I am not required to change the password at all. I have attempted to log in from two different computers and my iPhone, all connected to the same LAN, with the same results. Outside the LAN, however, I can log in with no problem. I have a Meraki MX protecting my network but the site is whitelisted. Further, I have contacted Meraki and together we whitelisted my client PC and the problem persisted. The Meraki engineer insisted that there was no way the firewall would cause this error and I concur. Additionally, I have disabled AV and also the firewall on the PC and this had no effect. The Meraki engineer suggested that there is likely something going on with the way Solarwinds is handling the external facing IP. I have tried four different browsers and tried flushing the cache and deleting the cookies but still no joy. Any ideas? 

HOWEVER, if I then click my HOME button after this, Google loads just fine! I have checked my TLS settings in Settings>Internet Options>advanced and all versions of TLS are enabled as well as SSL 3.0. I have tried clearing the browser cache and history, but NOT cookies and website data as I can't delete all of my user's saved passwords. Interestingly, this occurs in BOTH the 32 bit and 64 bit IE versions on this PC, but does NOT occur in Chrome or Firefox. 

There's a good possibility you have a hard drive that is starting to fail. You should 1)make sure you back up your data immediately, and 2) run diagnostics on the drive. 

I am installing two 2TB SATA drives on an Intel S500VSA server board. I want to configure a RAID 1 array. When I log into the RAID configuration panel with Ctrl-E I find that the two drives are identified but I am unable to configure them. I tried Intel support but the board is no longer supported. I have been all over the Intel website but have found no answer to this problem. From the RAID configuration panel, when I go into Management/Configure/Easy_Configuration the two drives are correctly recognized and appear in the list on port 0 and port 1 but there are no options available to configure anything (it says something like, "no further configuration is necessary"). When I go into Management/Objects/Logical_Drive it says no LDs are currently configured. How can I configure my array? I already did update the BIOS. 

I need to back up the configurations on my routers and main switches. I have installed the the tftpd64.exe tool on my local machine and am accessing the router via Telnet. I have bound the IP appropriately and am configured like this: 

the file was transferred successfully. This is at odds with the proper command string as defined in the video in the link I supplied. I'm not sure how this relates to the error I'm getting with the Telnet "copy run" command, but it is indicative of a potential misconfiguration or something so I thought it pertinent to the discussion. My question is, how can I make this Telnet connection copy the config file from my router? Everything appears to be configured correctly and it works on the client side but not with the correct "get" command. How do I troubleshoot this? The router is a Cisco Catalyst 3750, and I am running Windows 10 Professional 64 bit. 

We have our email service hosted offsite on a Kerio server, and I have around 160 users. All was working fine until two or three weeks ago and now suddenly I have maybe 8 or so users who have constant problems getting temporarily locked out of their accounts. Most, but not all, retrieve their email from their phone as well as on their PC using Outlook 2007, 2010 or 2016. On the PCs most are configured as MAPI using Kerio Connector and on phones I have them typically configured as Exchange type accounts (also MAPI). I do not install the Kerio component on phones. What happens is their devices keep popping up the window requesting them to enter their password and even after it is entered they will not sync. In other words, it appears they are locked out of their accounts and being denied authentication by the server. Often I verify this by attempting to log into the webmail component. If this fails, I disable the account in the Kerio admin console, wait ten minutes or so and re-enable it and then it is unlocked. Nothing on our Meraki MX firewall is blocking, the server is whitelisted, and this happens both on and off of our local network. I have been in touch with our email host and he says none of his other accounts is having this issue. He states his logs do not indicate the IP or MAC address of devices attempting to connect. I have tried changing passwords and this had no effect. I have removed user accounts from some of the phones and reinstalled and the problem persists. I have not yet tried completely removing the accounts from the computers AND phones but may venture there next. How can I diagnose and resolve this issue? The majority of those affected are managers. 

I am trying to migrate an installation of PHPlist via the Installatron installer provided by the cPanel console on a VPS. This error occurs in red under the URL heading: 

I have followed these instructions for installing tftpd64 on my 64 bit Windows 10 OS: $URL$ When I do this I get an error when TFTP restarts. It says: 

I went into SSH and created the /public_html/phplist folder using mkdir and the problem still persists. It's a newly leased server with 60GB of space -- 1mb shouldn't be an issue. 

You could 1)install iCloud on the Windows machine and copy them to the iCloud folder, or 2)do the same thing with another cloud program such as Google drive or Microsoft OneDrive. 

Then I can click okay and proceed, but the page does not print. The page will print fine from Firefox or Chrome so the problem seems to be with IE rather than the print driver. I have found some suggestions online to disable UAC and turn of IE protected mode. I tried both suggestions and they had no effect. What might be causing this problem? 

In the search box, type "firewall," then click on "Windows Firewall." Click on "Advanced Settings." Double-click on "Inbound Rules." Make sure the lines "File and Printer Sharing (NB-Session-In)" and "File and Printer Sharing (SMB-In)" are checked. Double-click on "File and Printer Sharing (NB-Session-In)" and select the tab that says "Scope" and change the remote address setting to "Any IP Address" then click "OK." Repeat on the line that reads "File and Printer Sharing (SMB-In)." I also wanted the server to ping on the net so I did the same with the setting for "File and Printer Sharing (Echo Request - ICMPv4-In). I also wanted name resolution, so I adjusted the scope for File and Printer Sharing (LLMNR-UDP-In) and (NB-Name-In). 

The whole point of RAID is to ensure redundancy in case a drive fails. This is done by striping data across drives with parity. What you want to do would negate the purpose of having RAID and leave your files vulnerable if you were to have a disk failure. If you want your files on a specific drive, you should either use an external drive or if you have empty slots you can add a JBOD drive to use for storage. 

You can either clone the partition using a product like Macrium Reflect or you can image the drive and restore it to your new partition. 

I have a new Surface Pro 4 tablet with Windows 10, Intel i7 chip and 16Gb of RAM. When I try to launch the Ignite program from Reynolds & Reynolds, the program does not launch. If I double click on the icon several times, the program still does not launch but I have discovered that if I open Outlook or even File Explorer the program then launches; in fact as many instances launch as there were attempts. For example, I can double-click the program icon three times, then open File Explorer or Outlook and three instances of Ignite will open along with File Explorer. I should add that they still take some time to load completely, but they do then run. I have tried running in several compatibility modes and have checked the box in the program properties for "Override high DPI scaling behavior. Scaling performed by Application" and also tried other options there -- this was actually due to the minimize/maximize/close buttons at the top right of the window appearing far too small and actually reducing in size with subsequent load attempts. How can I solve this problem? 

I have Windows Media Player selected as the default .wav file player. When I try to preview an attached sound file in an email in Outlook 2010 by clicking on the attached file the selecting "Preview file", instead of Media Player opening embedded within the preview pane, it opens in a popout window, often behind all of my existing open windows. There are also no minimize, maximize close buttons at the top right of the window. Why is this happening and how do I make it so the previewer opens within the preview pane like it's supposed to? I have Googled the problem and found no references to this concern online. I have tried disabling and re-enabling the Windows Media Player previewer with no luck.