While adding references to my project, I noticed that some of the core .Net libraries are marked as "built by FX45RTMGDR" while others are not. What is this cryptic entity and why does it matter if it was built by it or something else? 

Windows keeps bugging me with this "Are you sure you want to delete thumbs.db? But it's a system file!" window. Is there a way to permanently disable this? 

I'm reading that modern Nvidia driver installations for mobile cards don't support the Intel-Nvidia hybrid mode. For those who don't know about it, it's designed to save notebook battery charge by switching to Intel's slower and less energy demanding graphics system with a hotkey. Several user-modified releases of video drivers exist of newer driver releases that are aimed to fully support all the features of this hybrid graphics system. But I'm not interested in all that. I'm only interested in Nvidia part of this hybrid system, since it's performance I'm after, not energy saving. The thing is that the latest officially supported drivers are pretty old and I'd like to get the more recent version, and without the "unofficial support" by community that comes with another set of problems. Is there a way to install newest Nvidia mobile graphics drivers ignoring the Intel part of the equation? Specifically, I'm looking for solutions for my Asus UL30VT with G210m Nvidia graphics, but I'm still interested in answers for all Nvidia mobile graphics. 

I noticed that on both Windows XP and 7 (and 2 different computers respectively) I could manage to get that "This device can perform faster if you connect it to a high-speed USB 2.0 port" notification to pop up if I connect the cable very slowly (or struggle a bit doing it with just one hand). If I connect it quickly enough or normally, with both hands, there is no notification. In either case, all such devices appear to function normally. What I think happens is that the contact between wires gets interrupted for enough time during slow/clumsy connection that the USB controller thinks it's not 2.0 but slower. But why does it think so? Or why does it not just say "You are bad at connecting cables, please unplug and try again"? 

I was looking for an extension that would let me change all fonts on a page to one font of my choosing. I found one such extension, but it only has a built-in list of its own fonts, and doesn't allow to customize it. So I unzipped its XPI, found the font list, modified it and now I want to make this custom extension to work just for me. But it doesn't, because the new file hash doesn't match the old hash in the manifest. It used to be possible to disable extension signing check previously, but now it is mandatory. It seems that the only way to make it install is to upload it to AMO (addons.mozilla.org) and retrieve it after it's signed. But what if I don't want to do that? 

Alternatively, you can publish your files for external access (internet-wide, may require external IP address) and simply access them using FTP server or remote connection from any OS with internet access. 

I'm trying to find a way to detect when my computer decides I've been away (no user input) long enough to turn off the display. That also means I'm not watching movies and the OS is not prohibited from turning off the display by any media players. So far I found out that it may be possible to schedule a task to run if an event occurs, through Task Scheduler, a built-in Windows component. But I couldn't find such an event as turning on (off) the display in system event logs. Is there even such an event to begin with? Maybe I'm not using the correct tools for the job. Anyway, I'd like to be able to detect when Windows turns the display on and off (two separate events) so that I could run a certain process when these events occur. How do I do that? Note: I need this to work reliably when the screen is turned on or off by Windows, so any timers and applications "watching" after media players are not the desired solution. 

You can install custom CSS scripts to customize the way a site looks in many popular browsers, but for some devices with limited functions you can't easily customize CSS. So even though a lot of devices these days can run Firefox with Stulys addons and such, there are still devices like PSP or old phone builtin browsers which don't support such features. From what I was able to research on this topic, normally you can't apply scripts to pages inside i-frames, but addons like Stylus do this somehow, so I didn't quite understand what's possible and what's not. Is there a way to craft a publicly available page (personal hosting, public Github page or a local .html document on the device) which applies a script to a certain site (or multiple, on the same url) so you could go to that link and have your favorite CSS customizations on any device without the need to install browser addons? 

Turns out it wasn't hard. First you need to press the "sandwich" button on the right and select the bottom-left-most option. 

Go to your virtual machine's network connection settings and select "Bridged: connected directly to the physical network". Then share some folders on your guest OS, via right-clicking menu, from the "sharing" tab. This should let you access files on guest OS under VMWare Workstation from host OS. 

Usually when you hover cursor above a url, the link hint appears in the lower left/right corner of the browser window. These days people use link shorteners which don't allow to see what the target page is. Sometimes links are shortened several times (because of reasons). You ought to visit the link, be redirected and at the end of the journey you may see the final address link. lting link. Still, it may have been shortened before, which is not actually helping. 

I'm looking for a way to collect stats on what apps are launched when and for how long they're used on my Windows 7 PC. Is there a native tool for that? If there is not, what are the popular third-party tools? 

But it's been years since then, and there have been countless updates released, and newer Windows versions have appeared, so it could have addressed by now. Should I manually defragment my SSDs? Are there any known issues that would make it harmful on Windows 7? Additionally, what has changed between Windows 7 and 10 so that now it defragments SSDs? 

I'm reading a work on Cloud services and it touches briefly upon "Fog computing" as an example of possible future development branch of software-hardware infrastructure, without specifying what it is exactly and any of its benefits. Wikipedia has a few words about Fog computing on its Edge computing page. I suppose it could mean that processing is distributed unevenly between a set of devices, but it's somehow different from concentrating all processing on central data server (cloud computing) or end-user devices (edge computing), but I'm not sure. So what exactly is "Fog computing"? 

I just reinstalled Windows 7 x64 Ultimate, and when an app crashes, its WERFault window is now different from my previous installation's, without an option to show crash details. Previous OS installation was made in early 2013. My notebook wad upgraded to the same OS about half a year later form that, and the same thing happened to it. I think this might be caused by a recent windows update. This is how WERFault window looked before: 

I'd like to know how often I listen to some tracks, manage favorite albums, artists, and most importantly specific tracks (because sometimes there are very few good tracks in an album). Are there any applications for keeping track of music listening times, user ratings, listen counts and such for PC (usable offline)? 

I consider myself a tech-savvy person, but this audio-related problem I don't know how to solve. Imagine the following situation: You're chatting with a friend using Skype to show them what's on your game screen. They can see the picture, hear you, but can't hear the sound from your game. In Skype's audio settings, you can set input (what your friend hears) to your PC's sound mixer output. They will then not be able to hear you, but they'll hear both the game and their own voice. I have tried using Teamviewer and streaming applications for this purpose, but my friend hears himself in addition to terrible lags and latency. Using separate devices is also pretty bothersome: 

Through the years of seeing posts on thermal paste application patterns and precise amount calculations, I haven't found definitive info about how much excessive thermal past would hurt thermal conductivity. The popular opinion seems to be that too much paste (like using the whole tube of it provided in the cooler box) is very bad for conductivity, and it's a common object of "look at this noob's work" pictures. For a very simple example of how I see it, if you squeeze a large round blob of paste right in the center of the cpu and screw down the heatsink on it, it will spread out the excess around the cpu lid where it just sits harmlessly. Because nothing gets perfectly aligned in real life, there won't be a weird closed space in-between the heatsink and the outer rim of the cpu lid with pressurized thermal paste causing significant decrease in thermal conductivity. At least, that's the logical conclusion I've come to. But I haven't really done any precise scientific experiments myself, and I don't have the tools or experience to measure it exactly. I've only replaced the heatsinks twice in my life, but I've never had cooling problems, and my temperature ranges seemed to correspond with what I've looked up to be the average normal range. My impression is that using less than needed is a lot worse (and starts to become dangerous due to possible overheating) than adding more (where the amount limits itself and can't do any harm). Am I correct in my thinking that excessive thermal paste can't do harm (provided you screw down the heatsink appropriately)?