If all you run is a web server a secondary DNS may not seem that important. However, when your server is down there are a number of reasons you may want a backup DNS server, including: 

As long as it doesn't get subverted process accounting can yield useful information. Disabling the root password will prevent use of to become root. A periodic scan of for processes should show when su is being used. Check the or its equivalent might be useful for detecting who is becoming root. 

I can think of no reason why you would need to break alignment between DKIM and SPF. By doing so you are basically admitting you are unable to configure DKIM for the sending domain. The approach I use is to sign email for the originating domain. I use the same key and publish the public key for all sending domains. I use the same selector for all domains. For SPF I use one of three records: 

As long a the server isn't down for too long more than (two or three days) almost all your mail will arrive. E-mail works on a store and forward basis and the upstream servers will retry periodically. I believe the standard states they should retry for four days or so. The good news is most spam is delivered by servers which try only once, so you won't have to filter a huge backlog of spam. Setup a good alerting system and a UPS and you should be good for most cases. My connection to my ISP went down during a storm while I was on vacation and I was able to resolve the situation in a couple of days. 

Then start a session and clear its environment to match that of the cron job before running your init job. You should be able to script the setup and run as a script. 

It looks like you may be using SSH to connect to root. SSH usually doesn't allow logins to root, and many distributions don't allow root logins at all. You might be better off using an SSH authorized key to enable you to connect as root. It would be better to connect to an account other than root if you can. If you want to use an rsync deamon on the remote end I believe you need two colons after the server specification. Rsync user ids are not the same as system user ids. Access is controled by the rsync configuration file. EDIT: If you are using an rsyncd deamon on 10.10.10.1 then either of these should work. (NOTE: I changed the user id, try to avoid using root.) I also assume you have a module mapping to . 

There are various methods to verify domain ownership. You may want to use a different method of verifying domain ownership such as or 

NTP doesn't normally generate many log messages nor have its own log file. Log messages on my system are found in . Statistics are found in the statistics dir ( on my system). Presence of statistics files are controlled by the filegen options in your ntp.conf file. 

It seems your mail server has an IPv6 address. You need to add it as an AAAA record to the mail server definition as shown. If you want SPF to work over IPv6, your mail server/service will need a fixed IPv6 IP address. While not necessary for SPF, check that the PTR records for the mail servers IP addresses sub-domain return its name. For IPv4, you usually need to contact your provider. For IPv6, you should be able to get the network block delegated to your DNS, and you will have to configure the zone. 

If you are testing changes you may have problems with IE unless you shut down all IE windows and restart. IE can be use its cache aggressively. EDIT: You need to ensure mod_rewrite is enabled. Command is . It will tell you if the module is already enabled. If not you will need to shutdown and restart the server after enabling the module. Add the lines above to your virtual host definition and use to reload the modified configuration. The Apache documentation has details on rewriting. You should see the redirect as a 301 status request in your access log followed by a 200 or 304 status on the HTTPS connection. The displayed URL should change to the new location. Logging the port in an extend log format helps to see which connection things are happening on. Alternatively, use separate logs for each virtual server. 

The time servers you are using are synced to the same (possibly local) time server. I have seen servers claiming to be stratum 0 or 1 that had time services that were days off the correct time. Depending on where they get there time service they can be of by a few seconds. My ISPs public time server is current off bu 1.8 seconds. Setting the min poll to 36 hours will severely degrade the ability of NTP to correct your time. The fact your server is offset half a second from your time servers is the result. Try enabling one or two of the pool servers and see if you can connect. This will provide you better time service. 

As already noted is not a fully qualified name. It appears the mail server is not configured to correctly fixup the names submitted by your PHP code. You need to configure the domain for sendmail to a fully qualified domain. See my article on Running and Email Server for some things to consider. I see far to much email from automated systems that looks like spam because of improper server configuration. 

can be a list or wild card such as the same as any other list. Reverse configuration would be . Documentation for exim is at . Check in chapter 7. 

If your server is using the default configuration, it should be using the self-signed certificate. This is adequate and acceptable to establish TLS connections on outgoing and incoming connections. It will however fail validation. You will need to use a certificate from a trusted authority to pass validation. Are you providing clients with certificates that they can use in place of a login? Other than your users provided with user certificates, I would expect client certificates to fail frequently. Many servers use a self-signed certificate, or have other issues that will cause validation failures. Exim won't ask for a client certificate unless you set or . Certificate are well covered in the Encrypted SMTP connections section of the Exim documentation. Many organizations have trouble getting their DNS correctly configured for STMP usage. DKIM is particularly troublesome, and most signers I encounter fail validation. I have little hope that many sites have configured their servers with the correct valid certificates. After recent restricting connections to TLS v1.0 and above, I have had to stop announcing to a number of servers. I haven't yet resorted to trying to validate TLS certificates for any clients. If I ever do, it would at most count towards their spam score. I may enable the log selector to investigate if any sites could pass validation. SMTP over TLS is growing but far from the standard. Those sites that do use it are sites that are well-trusted by other means. UPDATE: I've checked my logs, and so far only two senders have passed validation. Most clients didn't validate. I tried validating my certificate: 

Get the PTR record for the new address setup to point to your mail server's name. You should to add the new address to DNS before switching to the new IP. This should be done 2 times the TTL of your DNS in advance. (Setting TTL down to an hour makes this easier. This may need to be done a couple of days in advance.) If you have configured SPF, check that any IP addresses you specified are updated. (Enable both addresses during the transition.) An alternative is to create an new mail server name and configure this. You will need to change the name you mail server uses in the Greeting message and HELO command if you do this. Add the new MX record using the times for the A records above. Remove the old MX after conversion is done. Legitimate mail servers will queue messages if your server is temporarily unreachable. Check your IP changeover carefully when you connect to the new ISP. You may want to reboot to verify the change will survive a reboot. (If you are behind a NAT router, you only need to reboot the router unless you also change the server's IP.) Remove the old IP address from your DNS once you have the switchover done. You can also increase the DNS TTL when you do this. Check the DNS results from your name servers once everything is done. 

Consider setting up DMARC with a reporting address so you can determine if you could set a policy. You will get reports on how well you are following your policy and failure rates. Use a disposition until the only failure reports you get are for email that does not originate from your domain. Don't set your SPF policy to until you are sure you have listed all the valid senders in your SPF record. 

You should not need to set the record when updating the record. The record points to the record so the IP address of the mail server will be updated when the record is updated. Related records for , , and also don't need to updated if the IP address changes. While you can run an on a dynamic IP address, you will have difficulties sending mail directly. Use your providers email relay server for outgoing email. 

You might be able to forward and send a fail message to the sender using an alias pair. Test before using. Try something like: 

You want to use a split configuration. Your external configuration should not offer recursive look-ups. Search for for more details. In short form, you will need to: 

The permissions are set by the and settings in the transport. The as well. You may want to look at using a shared namespace in Dovecot to allow sharing the folder. 

It appears you are inside network which limits access to ntp servers. Of the six time servers you have specified you are only getting time from one. However, all is not lost. Try using local time sources. I find reliable NTP sources are common. Often your router and DNS servers will provide a reliable time source. If an dedicated ntp server is available, it is often called or . If the local domain is then you would find it as . For your master server consider using its clock as a time source. Setting is stratum in the range 8 to 12 makes it a useful backup but won't override real sources. This may not be an accurate time source, but can be used as common fallback time source for all your systems. Even if you can't get a good time source, you can at least sync all your systems to the same time source. 

IPv6 is dependent on a variety of ICMPv6 packets to keep the network functioning. To enable Ping you need a rule like. 

Your queue is growing as would be expected when you stop Exim. Usage seems to be quite low with a few messages at about 5 in the morning when cron often runs daily jobs. Usage is also heavy early in the evening. Even if the service is stopped, it is commonly called by running the program and submitting the messages. Normally, this call would deliver the mail immediately, or queue the message for later delivery. This is likely what you are seeing. As messages are queueing, it is likely that the some (all) destinations can not be reached. PHP and other languages have modules for sending emails. These usually default to using the local server. Normally, there are options that can be set to specify a different host to be used. You can see where the mail is coming from by looking at Exim's log file. This is often . The details there should show where the messages are coming from, and to whom they were sent. The command should show all the messages and who they have been sent too. There are options to display the headers and contents of messages in the queue. Look for the options beginning in the man page. Normally, you want a mail server running, although you may not want it listening on any public addresses. and other programs use email to send notifications to their users. The default configuration can be tuned anywhere from a local server with local delivery to a full fledged Internet MX. 

rDNS demonstrates some competence on the part of the email server admin, and usually some degree of trust by at least one other admin. records are controlled by the administrator providing the IP address, in this case the hosting provider. The and records demonstrate trust of the administrator in charge of the domain's DNS, in this case you. With few exceptions, legitimate servers pass, but most spambots fail. If you can't get the correct and records put in place to pass rDNS validation, use your provider's email relay server to send email. It is unusual for relay servers to have DNS issues. You can still use your own server as your as it does not require rDNS. While you are updating your DNS, consider adding an SPF policy record if you don't have one. Given this current state of validation software add it as as record, and if possible as an record. SPF policies for domains which won't be used for email such as are also recommended. 

As already noted use to manage log file rotation and cleanup. It can compress old logs, and remove oldest logs after X generations. My usual search for space runs using walking the largest directories using the command . This allows me to quickly find directories and files where cleanup will have a major impact. If you are using to monitor disk usage you can configure it to notify when usage is high. 80% and 90% are a good starting point for warning and critical messages. You run find on a periodic basis to find files larger than some threshold. This won't help if you have a lot of largish files, but will detect files growing unreasonably large. 

VNC can serve up a Java-based client. Most browsers have Java enabled. Just make sure you secure access very well. 

I have always made it a practice to keep fixed addresses outside the DHCP range. That should eliminate this issue. DCHP will offer fixed addresses outside its dynamic range. For fixed addresses, it is common to use infinite or at least very long leases. Check the DHCP leases file to see if the server has an active lease. They are normally configured not to use DHCP, and therefore would not have a lease. 

It appears you want to provide access to a userid which acts as a dropbox for files. You can restrict what the users can do in the authorized keys file. As you only want them to connect to this user id on the server, you can provide them with a .ssh/config file which maps them directly to the correct userid. 

For HTTPS you will need an alternate subject name for the bare domain on your SSL certificate. This will prevent errors resulting from the certificate name not matching the requested domain. In DNS you only need to ensure that the bare domain and your www domain have the same address(es) A and AAAA addresses. Your snapshot of the DNS panel is missing the names. For www and the bare domain (@), you need one A record and one AAAA record each. www is the name for the www address. You can use @ or the bare domain ending with a dot (example.com.) as the name for the bare domain.