I think the easiest way is going to depend on the capabilities of your switches. If they have SFP ports then the easiest way would be to install the correct fiber module and connect the new fiber port in your switch to your existing fiber with a patch cable (pay close attention to connectors). If your switches are void of such technology and you don't have the budget to procure new ones then you are relegated to media converters. (Keep in mind, media converters are a stop gap measure.) Single fiber optics I believe are not very prevalent, so sticking with your desire for easy I would not pursue them unless you are low on available fiber and desire to preserve what is left. 

Until you set a route in your PCs they don't know what to do with the packets. Type "route print" in a command prompt of your windows PC. You will see a route to your local network but no route to anywhere else. Once you set the default route then the machine knows where to send packets. 

To permit a range of IP addresses you need to apply the proper inverse mask. The concepts are covered in Configuring IP Access Lists. However your range of addresses is dictated by the mask you choose. You cannot pick a range that crosses mask boundaries like you are requesting. So an ACL for a range of 100 addresses could be 0.0.0.127. Example: permit ip 192.168.1.0 0.0.0.127 This permit statement will give you the number of addresses you require but it dictates that the available range is 192.168.1.1 - 192.168.1.127. If you absolutely must use the range of addresses that you laid out you could permit in several smaller masked ranges. For instance - permit ip 192.168.1.128 0.0.0.63 

The Cisco support forum seems to indicate that this switch is pre-standard and therefore doesn't support AF or AT. 

It appears to me that the only real questions that you ask is for comments about Fortinet. You probably aren't going to like this but I can see what might have been some motivation for their decision. (Please keep reading I promise I have a point to make.) One of the true shortcomings (my opinion of course) of VRRP has to do with the amount of idle hardware that it employs. That is, if you want redundancy for LAN-A you must install and configure 2 routers - one as a primary router and the other as backup. The backup does very little all day long but monitor the primary router and if the primary never fails the backup might never route a single packet. If you have a need for secondary addresses then you can possibly split the workload (maybe even load balance) across those very two routers. Allow me to attempt to demonstrate: Let's say you have 2 IP subnets (172.22.1.0/24 and 172.22.2.0/24) in use hanging from the same router interface and desrie to employ VRRP for redundancy. You could (add a second router obviously) service the first subnet (172.22.1.0/24) with VRRP instance 1 utilizing router-A as primary and router-B as backup. You could then service the second subnet (172.22.2.0/24) with VRRP instance 2 utilizing router-B as primary and router-A as backup. Thus tasking both routers with full time duties (possibly load balancing) at the same time you are providing redundancy for both subnets. Now you no longer have idle hardware. Having said all of that you are correct that interoperability might be difficult with other manufacturers if/when one of them doesn't employ an entire standard. I desperately hope you find this helpful in some small way. 

I am currently using a very simple eBGP and iBGP configuration in my network to route out through a single ISP. This diagram gives a rough idea of what I currently have in operation: 

I have a relatively large layer 2 network where port flapping is not uncommon. I am using Juniper EX 2200 switches, which clear out the mac-forwarding table on a topology change. It is not uncommon for ports to flap in our network, devices reboot, etc.. Each time a port flaps, a TC is sent throughout the network and all of my EX switches flush out the ethernet-switching tables. This creates a pretty large flood while the switches re-learn. Has anyone experienced an issue similar to this? Do you have any suggestions to limit the flooding that happens after an STP TC? Is there anything that I can configure on the EX switches to limit the flood? Thanks! 

I am running out of capacity through ISP 1 and would like to add an additional ISP and create a dual homed setup. I have a /20 from ARIN that I am advertising to ISP1. This is the setup I would like to end up with: 

Trying to monitor some TrippLite switched/metered vertical PDUs with PRTG using SNMP. I can't seem to find any MIB that would provide me with the output current. Anyone have experiencing monitoring these TrippLite PDUs with SNMP? I've download both the TRIPPLITE-MIB and UPS-MIB from their website, but neither of these files contains an entry to current in amps. EDIT: 

Here is a list of the PtP bandwidths: A -> B 300Mbps B -> A 300Mbps B -> C 300Mbps C -> B 300Mbps However, when we test the network (using iperf, 10 parallel threads) from A -> C, we see the following: A -> C 130Mbps C -> A 130Mbps Link from A -> B is a microwave link operating at 23GHz Link from B -> C is a 5GHz PtP radio. When we test the links individually, they look OK, passing 300Mbps as they should be. However, when we test the network end-to-end, from A -> C, we never see more than 50% of the bandwidth we expect, and usually see closer to 33%. None of these links are passing customer traffic. Is this network congestion? Could it be caused by the two links operating with different latencies? Would this difference in latency cause buffers to fill up on one of the radios? Thanks! 

I know that I can use local-pref to control which of my two edge routers customer traffic should exit through. However, inbound route control is more difficult. I would like to advertise my same /20 to both ISP 1 and ISP 2. Is there any way I can load-balance incoming traffic into my network? I know there are tricks such as as-path prepending, etc... I don't want to run into a situation where all inbound traffic is taking preference through ISP 1, to the point where I'm maxing out the 1G connection, while ISP 2 sits idle. I use VyOS on my edge routers. 

It might be helpful for you to start a packet trace (with something like wireshark) you will see that the first thing your local machine does when you issue the ping command is broadcast an APR packet (assuming it isn't already in the arp table) to the IP address you are trying to reach. Example: 

Shortly someone will tell you that questions about home networks are off topic and will give a link to the rules for this forum. However, an Ethernet's link speed is always predicated upon the device it is plugged into at the physical and MAC layers. The IP (network) connection to some other device has no impact on your link speed. So, if your switch is Gigabit and the machines plugged into it have Gigabit interfaces then they should negotiate a Gigabit link speed. As you mentioned your router being FastE will negotiate a FastEthernet connection with the switch. Your wireless devices with always negotiate some link speed within the capabilities of whatever 802.xx protocol you are utilizing. 

Short answer is no. Link speed and duplex negotiation is between a NIC and a port on a network (usually a switch port) not with the network itself. Collisions can only occur once you have established your connection to the network and are attempting to transmit a frame. 

No. When you are transferring data between computers on your local LAN that data is only traversing the gig E switch you speak of and doesn't touch the router. 

Short answer is no. The piece of hardware you are referring to is called a PoE injector. It is designed to sit between your network and a the device needing power to inject power for that one device. Non PoE switches do not have the circuitry to pass this electrical current to all ports. So reversing a PoE injector and attempting what you are surmising would probably result in a dead switch. 

pfsense will bridge. Seems to me the easiest route would be to isolate the two machines behind your pfsense box and bridge the outside interface with the inside. No reconfig of IP yet you have the separation you desire. You could even do some port forwarding if you wanted access to your server from the outside LAN. 

Just for clarity I am assuming your layout is: Internet - FW - 10.1.1.0/27 - r1 - 10.1.1.80/30 - r2 - 10.1.1.64/28 You mention that you are running a routing protocol (RIPv2) on all devices. Assuming that includes the firewall and all things are configured correctly the firewall should have a route back to the other 2 networks (10.1.1.80 & 10.1.1.64). Can you confirm that you can ping these from the firewall? You state that you can ping all interfaces on both routers but you don't specify the source you are pinging from. You don't mention a default route in your routers so I will guess that is where the problem lies. If your routing protocol is operating properly your firewall is going to be a node hanging off of the 10.1.1.0 network. If you don't specifically tell R1 and R2 to utilize it as the default they won't. Here is a document on the Cisco website on the subject: Gateway of last resort.