Realizing that the unattended/silent install worked (since that's what the System Update utility does), I ran the driver install in unattended mode rather than the default interactive mode: setup.exe -install I rebooted when it completed and it worked! 

Is there a way to prime Outlook's local address cache with names/email addresses from the local address book? It's a real hassle when, for example, you move a user from another email client to Outlook and they have to either type in or look up the recipient's name the first time they email that person. It's so time consuming. Update: Is the process different for Exchange mailboxes vs. IMAP? 

When taking notes with a stylus on a capacitive touch device like the ipad or android tablets how do you prevent your hand from causing multi-touch problems? When you write, both the stylus and your hand are touching the screen. Does the presence of your hand screw up your touch entry just as accidentally placing a second finger on the screen at the wrong time would? 

I'm creating port forwarding rules on my DD-WRT router (shown below) and want to allow all (any) source networks access. My thought was to specify 0.0.0.0/32 but that is not working. How do I specify this? 

I contacted LogMeIn customer service and was surprised to find out that LogMeIn Free is indeed licensed for corporate use. Of course has the limited feature set which could limit its usefulness in a company environment but if all you need are the basics then you're all good. 

Under the above conditions, I clocked under 2 hours of battery life across 3 tests (1:49, 1:52, 1:47). If I actually use the computer, we're looking at 1:30. Something is not right... 

Question-State: solved (not really but it basically works) Edit (Current-Progress): ASUS released a new "BIOS-Update" (BIOS 210; Update FW) which fixes the "BIOS-Settings" issues, but I'm not sure if it also fixes the efibootmgr hard-bricking issues (I don't really want to test this, but theoretically it should). The ASUS support isn't cooperative at all and I guess they don't even understand the problem. tl;dr - you might wanna just read "What happened", "The Issue" and "The Question" Prologue: I've recently bought an ASUS UX303LA-R4342H notebook, which is using an American Megatrends firmware (UEFI; Version: (UX303LAB.)207). I sadly ended up unexpectedly hard-bricking it after 11 days (it's fixed by now). Since the firmware implements the UEFI-Specification I thought I'd use the UEFI-Implementation to manage the whole boot process instead of using additional software like GRUB2. As the "BIOS-Settings" don't offer an option to set boot parameters, which I needed for an external initramfs, I decided to use the program efibootmgr. What happened: I extracted the exact commands responsible for this from the history (/root/.bash_history): 

After command 342 I could reboot without problems, but after command 500 (reboot) my notebook didn't boot up anymore. When I pressed the power button it just displayed the ASUS-Logo and that was it (I couldn't access the "BIOS-Settings" with F2; pressing TAB sometimes removed the ASUS-Logo giving me a black screen with backlight; the power button still worked making it possible to shutdown; the keyboard-backlight was on). The program "efibootmgr" obviously shouldn't be able to hard-brick my notebook even if I would have entered a wrong command. The Issue: I'd say this failure is reproducible by adding two or three boot entries using efibootmgr, but I didn't test it so far as I don't wanna hard-brick my notebook again. - There are similar issues reported on Wikipedia. Instead I tried to execute efibootmgr just once with no other boot entries existing (you can find the command and the result here. Instead of creating just one entry this command created three visible entries in the "BIOS-Settings" under the boot section. I also decided to film it later but this time it only gave me two boot entries: $URL$ As this didn't worked I decided to build the initramfs (I need this for my LVM2 root-fs) directly into the linux-kernel enabling me to use the "BIOS-Settings" to create boot entries. I thought this way there wouldn't occur any problems but I was wrong (again). Using the "BIOS-Settings" boot manager gave me completely wrong and inconsistent results as you can see here: $URL$ Current Situation: My current situation is that I can't even save boot entries via the "BIOS-Settings" (idk why but they disappear after save&reboot (F10), however I can boot them once without saving). I like the notebook itself (my only alternative was the Dell XPS 13 Developer Edition which is currently unavailable) and I don't really want to switch but the firmware seems just completely broken and I don't know anymore if it's a good idea to keep it. But if necessary I could try to use the CSM (legacy) mode in combination with GRUB2 (like with a traditional BIOS). How ASUS thinks about this issue: I already contacted the ASUS-Support but they don't seem to understand this problem. When I contacted them for the first time I described what happened using efibootmgr under GNU/Linux and they responded telling me that they don't support GNU/Linux ignoring my comment that this problem obviously isn't OS related. Later I contacted them describing how to cause it with the "BIOS-Settings" (without the use of GNU/Linux) and I'm currently waiting for a response. I also contacted American Megatrends Inc. where I'm currently waiting for a response too. The Question: 

I'm running Outlook 2010 in Cached Exchange mode against an Exchange 2007 server. Outlook's status bar shows "updating cached messages (2/1950)" and the number never increments. What does "updating cached messages" mean? Information is sparse. Intuitively it seems like some kind of indexing process on the emails cached in the local .OST file. 

What happens is this: if, prior to activating the hotkey there is any arbitrary window in focus, the browser instance launches in the background which is not what I want. If however the desktop or Taskbar has focus then my new Chrome window comes to the forefront as I want it to. 

I'd like to display an RSS feed (updating dynamically of course) on my Windows 7 desktop. The posts I've read about Windows 7 RSS backgrounds are all about displaying various background images delivered via RSS. What I'm looking for would be similar to the Windows XP/95 Active Desktop feature which allowed for web pages to be presented on the desktop background. 

I have hyperlinks in some Excel 2010 (both .xlsx and .xls formats) worksheets. If I enable sharing of the workbook I can no longer edit or create hyperlinks - the options no longer exist on the menu and/or are greyed out. How can I fix and/or workaround this? 

Looking at Amazon reviews for OCZ Agility and Vertex SSD drives, I often see an equal number of great reviews and lousy reviews. People either seem to love them and have no issues or have tons of problems. Reviews for Corsair and Sandisk drives generally seem good to great. What's the story with OCZ? 

I want to remove the folder, so I read How to Remove RSS Support from Outlook and discovered the MFCMapi gem of a utility. I followed the instructions in the section "Delete the RSS folder using MFCMAPI" section, and was able to remove the folder from Outlook. However, the "RSS Feeds" folder now shows in the "Deleted Items" folder in Outlook Web Access (OWA) and also on my mobile devices, but not in Outlook. In OWA I attempted a right-click and delete, but I am told that folder cannot be deleted. I poked around my OST file (I am running in cached exchange mode) using again using MFCMapi to see if I could find the folder but I do not see it. Finally I created a new Outlook profile in which I do not cache messages, so I could get a "live" look at the server and attempt to see the folder and delete it that way, but it still did not show. Any ideas? 

I have a Debian machine with a root user, and several other users that do not have root privileges. Each user has its own directory, and I would like to set a shared directory for all these users. Is it possible to set a shared directory for the root user and other users within the same machine by using Samba? If so, how? So far, I set a Samba password for my root user, called koala. So I ran the following command: Created a directory to be shared: And added this to the end of the file: 

Currently, this works so that if I type I get the address , and if I type I get . How can I add another zone, called , which should also be mapped to the IP . It has been a challenging task. I will thank you for any guidance. 

What should I change to prevent my DNS server from answering to naked domain requests? I will appreciate any help you can provide. 

The host was unreachable because no DNS server was specified. The configuration file must be the following (as long as your gateway and nameserver have the same IP address) 

I have already set a static IP for a virtual machine in a private network in my school's laboratory. However, if I follow the same steps at home I cannot set a static IP for my Debian Virtual Machine. My etc/network/interfaces file is configured like this: 

In the Advanced Configuration section of pfSense's OpenVPN, in Custom Options, there's an example to push "route 10.0.0.0 255.255.255.0". In my network, my OpenVPN server uses the 10.22.4.0/24 subnet to tunnel clients, and the LAN network which I want them to have access to is 10.22.1.0/24. What command should I include in the Custom Options to allow VPN clients to access the LAN. I will appreciate any help you can provide.