MongoDB clients should add an _id field with a unique ObjectId. Using ObjectIds for the _id field provides the following additional benefits: 

Try again but rename ib_logfile0 to ib_logfile0_old ib_logfile1 to ib_logfile1_old. These file automatically created from ibdata file when mysql server restart. Try innodb_force_recovery option- mysql 

This is a common problem if you do a mysql import and overwrite the mysql database itself, such as when you might be restoring from a mysqldump -A backup. This is a good thing: you probably want to back up all your mysql users, permissions, etc -- but it can wreak havoc with things like the debian-sys-maint user used to cleanly shutdown mysql. Although this new database will possibly change both the root password and the debian-sys-maint password, of course it won't automatically change the expected debian-sys-maint password in /etc/mysql/debian.cnf. In fact, unless you also backed up that file, you probably don't even know what that password is anymore! First things first. If the mysql root password was different between old and new servers, you can use mysqladmin to fix it: 

Fix the debian sys maint password. So now look up the debian sys maint password that debian created for you when you installed it on the new server. (You need sudo because this should be a highly protected file.) 

You can set by the liux command . It gives no. of nodes. set this value to it. For more read here You can set if: it is blog/stats/e-commerce (with ~100x shop in day), etc. if: you have a lot of customers or you need to work with money transaction like bank. so this time you should split your dataflow between several servers to have speed & safety. You can set it to 2, because it has ~75x faster write speed and it fails ONLY if hardware fails. But it have its own impact. Read this- 

Can you please advise how can I keep slave database up to date while it's in transactional replication with master. I mean what If I change indexes, columns, tables or sthm else in master dabase? What should I do in this case? Should I make this changes to both databases simultaneously or transactional article is enough to handle it? 

I have a problem with sql server 2012 SSIS package which has execute step running utility. When I run this package from BIDS everything works fine, when I start package from SSIS it also starts without any problem. But once I start this package as a step in sql agent job - it hangs, and do nothing. The problem is with execute step, once I disable it in package SQL agent executes package fine. I've tried to add SQL Agent's credentials security rights on folder with utility, I've also tries to add sql server proxy account. But still nothing helped. Can you please advise how can I fix it? UPDATE: Once I run package in Dev Tools everythings works just fine, but running package from sql server job causes process hang in process list in a taskmanager. Once I manually kill this process job stops working. I assume that this behaviour is somehow related to lack of permissions, but even new credentials didn't work for me. Or maybe wscript utility asks for some promt, though running the same script from command line didn't show any. 

I assume this might help somebody, as I've found what caused my problem. In our local company active directory controller was using self signed certificates, I'm not faminial with details of AD, but I've found too many errors in Server's event viewer manager. So once I've stopped using Windows Authentication for operations in SQL Server Management Studio for creation of replication, and used SQL credentials with SA level - error disappeared. Hope this will help somebody. 

here alter command for test would not replicate. because you are using not_replica database. after that insert statement would fail & replication stopped. 

Mysql server is running not terminated, and port is already used with the socket. When we restart mysql server service, Sometimes it doesn't terminate the mysql server process and remains in the queue, In that case you can kill the mysql server process externally. 

This problems seems to permission issues or change the mysql data direcory to other location then /var/lib/mysql. 

Federated storage engine can help you. In mysql, you can achieve this by using federated storage engine. It allows you to access tables from different server. Once you reference the table from specific server, you can use it. You can get more details about federated storage engine. Now you can join two tables from different servers. how to use federated engine ETL tools can help you like Talend data integration Talend is open source tool which is ETL tool uses in data ware housing. It have nice UI, you can learn it in short duration. Here you can create many Mysql or database connections and use the different connections for different tables, can join whatever as you need. 

For mysql server monitoring you should concern these- Mysql server is running or not by command (service mysql status) and by telnet the server that is running or not. You should consider these parameters. 

Then you can chose between configuring apparmor to allow MySQL to read\execute\modify the new data directory and sub directories or, at your very own risk, you can remove apparmor. You may need to be root to do the following: 

Have you checked that the directory /var/lib/mysql does actually exist and corresponds to your data directory? If it does not, then you probably must specify otherwise the datadir parameter under the mysqld section