You can use cached credentials until the guest-os domain-controller comes online... or simply set the instance with the guest-os domain-controller to automatically start on boot ... and wait until it comes online before attempting to log into the host server. 

In short. NO. Compressing a file requires a certain level of "fail-safely" kind of thinking. If the compressing process fails, it needs to be able to fail in a way that you don't lose your file. What would happen if the compression failed half way through the file? There are many compression tools out there than can use a temporary folder (that is definable) that can be used to create the compressed working file... until the process is finished... then delete the original and finally put the compressed file in the correct target. You will never find a file-compression tool that will rewrite on-the-fly the file as it is compressing it. 

Honestly, nothing beats having a local apache instance... and editing files in VIM. Once installed, it takes only a minute to setup additional "sites" so you can have dozens of private websites running on your machine that only you have access to... until you upload it to a production server. 

I honestly don't think you can set an MTU to 100 and still establish any form of an IP connection. I believe ipv4 REQUIRES a minimum of 576... and possibly more. That's CRAAAZY SMALL... typically 10/100 switches built in the last 20 years have a 1492 or 1500 MTU... and in more demanding networks with better equipment all the way to 9000. 

In short. There is no way to protect "visio resources" (shapes/etc...). You cannot even really protect the contents of visio documents at all. You can copyright visio documents, shapes and tools... but you're really copyrighting the actual characteristics of the document, shape or tool. If you find someone else using your "shape"... it's up to your legal department to go after them. Generally, it would cost more to pursue legal action than the shape is worth. Visio documents are not intended to be shared with 3rd parties. It is meant to be for internal use for creation of diagrams... and then exported to other programs/formats for distribution. Unfortunately, those formats typically aren't editable by the end-user. 

In the header or footer, you can add a "field" that is the file-name. How you insert fields, is dependent on the version of Word you're using. After adding the filename-field to your header/footer... and saving your documents in a folder, you can simply right-click & click print. 

Unfortunately, you're not going to find an easy solution. The startup folder is rather dumb, and has no configurability. Your best bet is to modify the shortcuts in your startup folder to run an intermediary program that would determine whether or not to execute the application... or delete them all and switch to using scheduled tasks that run at logon. 

The problem is that the task-scheduler does not run in the same user-session as the currently logged in user. (Yes, it may be running as the same user... but the same user can have multiple sessions in Windows, not all of which are started within a GUI) What happens is that when the task-scheduler starts applications but there is no place for it to display the GUI. It is not running in the same session as the logged-on user. 

I confess I've never used before, but I suspect it's just a derivative running in a virtual machine. Relying on javascript to do your proxying is a very silly thing to do, as it is easily bypassed or completely ignored in many cases... which ultimately defeats the advantages of using a proxy to start with. I would start by setting up a proper proxy system using . For derivatives, there is a package in the repository that is easily installed using or . After installing, start by editing the and add or modify the following settings with those you deem appropriate: 

Thermal paste is VERY important for CPUs and GPUs... it's not typically 24-degrees C different... but a must-have none-the-less. It's more likely that you didn't seat the heatsink/fan combo correctly. (sitting at angle... not all 4 posts are seated on motherboard... etc...) As a tip... remove the heatsink/fan combo by turning the black pegs 1/4 turn then pulling them up. they should pop up fairly simply. (don't force them... ) After removing the heatsink/fan... apply a dab (1/2 pea-sized-ish) of thermal paste... (don't go for cheap white paste... get some good stuff like artic-silver) and spread it around. Don't put gobs of the stuff on there... as you don't want it to go places beyond the CPU... you just want enough to cover the cpu and not ooze over the edges. To re-attach the heatsink/fan... make sure all 4 posts are in their upright position... turn them back the 1/4 turn to the locked position... line up the white pastic bits with the 4 holes on the motherboard... and push down until they lock in place. Make sure the peg goes through the hole... and the plunger locks in place. It should be locked rigidly in place for each post. (no wiggle room) 

I would look at the host machine... as well as the guest machine. During this "blackout period" ... what is the CPU running at? and how much physical memory is in use? Disk IO? The virtual network interface can run into problems if the CPU is kept at 100%... and having insufficient physical RAM may cause some swapping to disk.... which is never good. On a side note... I recall that Microsoft issued an update for LSI-logic-based disk controllers... and I believe that VMWare actually uses that as one of the SCSI disk options. That update may conflict with the VMWare disk emulation... You might even try an alternative to VMWare like VirtualBox that can use the same vhd format. 

I honestly have no clue what kind of webcam is built into your monitor... but try doing a lsusb in a console to get the USB IDs of the device, and use that to locate drivers. It's possible that the manufacturer doesn't have any sort of linux-based driver. 

Not all SATA controllers support hot-swapping. This is not simply a matter of having a hot-swapping enclosure & switching to AHCI mode. More than likely, the motherboard is beeping because (despite usbsafelyremove's claim) it did not expect a hardware failure. (yes, losing power to the motherboard looks like a hardware failure) Even if Windows is OK with having the device removed from the system, the controller may not be happy. All that aside, you might be better off looking for specific drivers pertaining to your motherboard/SATA controller which may offer a better interface for removing drives while the system is running. Frequently, there's a simple RAID utility that can perform that task for you without having to turn to some random 3rd party app. Additionally, it is probably a good idea to look to the manufacturer of the motherboard to see if your motherboard does support hot-swapping. 

tab between elements... press enter to follow links. You can also search for text by using control-F and typing whatever you're looking for... after finding whatever you're looking for... hit escape to close the search box & press enter to select it. 

To the best of my knowledge, there's not a complete list of commands that are embedded into the command interpreter... (at least, not that I've found) But a quick & dirty way to tell would be to crack open a command prompt.. and wipe out the PATH variable. Any commands that still work are embedded in the shell (or the working directory if there are any)... the ones that no longer work... are programs located somewhere on the machine. 

Long-story short... because backwards-compatibility. Essentially, ("rmdir", etc...) is a low-level function that must always work reliably. If you're attempting to recover a system and the disk is 100% full... moving files to a recycle-bin won't assist you in recovering your machine. Similarly, there isn't always a user logged in a machine when is executed. Which recycle-bin should it go to? Additionally, developers through generations of time have relied on the simple fact that permanently removes files. Changing this behavior would force nearly every software-development company to re-evaluate nearly every product they've ever built to ensure the correct behavior is maintained, or re-write to accommodate the change. There are 3rd-part tools that implement some additional commands in a command-prompt such-as "recycle" to move to recycling bin... etc..., but this requires you install something else to add this functionality. 

I don't know where you got that idea... DOS (all versions of) does not copy all files that start the same way without using a wild-card character. For example: 

... It depends on how you've configured your "infected machine". The virus will have no direct access to your physical machine. That being said, it does have access to any (virtual) peripheral attached to your virtual machine. This includes the virtual network interface as well as shared-drives. By default... (if you're using the XP-Mode virtual machine) All drives are shared with the guest VM, for the purposes of "Integration Features". Additionally, the virtual guest might also have the "Auto Publish" feature enabled, which will put a shortcut in your "start-menu" for any applications installed in that VM. You can turn off & on all of these features, as well as setup additional virtual networks which would help isolate the host machine from the guest. There are additional avenues that could potentially be affected, but the virus would have to be highly specialized to attack that particular Hypervisor... which makes such a virus beyond unrealistic. 

That declaration is incorrect. the "portrange" syntax requires a range, as in something like . TCP port 0 is categorized as "Reserved" according to the IANA specifications. You can define rules that would match port 0, but I know of no services that would use port 0. 

From what is in the EULA... No. In reality... It depends on the Microsoft Windows activation department guy you get on the phone. In many cases I've seen where they willingly activate it under those circumstances... and you're fine. (As long as this is indeed a RETAIL copy, and not an OEM copy of Windows.) OEM copies that come pre-installed on a computer (from Dell/HP/etc...) are not permitted to be installed on any computer other than the original. It's my experience that Microsoft isn't trying to gouge their customers... but rather... get you to pay for what you are using at least once... rather than join the huge number of people who steal it outright. 

Both the from and to can be local directories like or a remote directory like the just means to "recurse" directories. (copy everything from that directory and everything beneath it.) in a windows environment with a "C drive" typically you'd use putty's pscp command and do something like this: 

It is really simple. You either have no speakers or headphones plugged in which is indicated by the icon... or you do. This really isn't a warning, but rather a status update. You could hide the icon if it bothers you that much. Start by right clicking the "up-arrow" on the tray icon container thingie: 

More than likely, the pins inside the USB port on the computer are bent, or the plastic piece in the middle is broken or removed. What happens is that the usb port is shorting out. i.e. the +5v line is touching ground or one of the data pins, and the computer shuts itself down to protect itself from damage. Unfortunately, there is no way to fix this really. Your best bet is to fill it in with some non-conductive material and never use that port again. Now, please go back & accept some of your previous questions before you get forever-ignored by people here. 

You can clearly see that there's only 2 channels. In this case, the only way to amplify the sub-woofer's volume, is to use an equalizer and amplify the range that the electronics filter out for the subwoofer. Cheaper speaker systems frequently continue to pass that range onto the left & right speakers, so you'll also be amplifying them. Some low-grade speaker systems have additional plugs for TRUE 3.1/5.1/7.1 configuration options, where you end up with 2/3 or 4 of those 1/4" jacks. For example, in basic 3.1 surround sound, you would end up with 1 plug carrying the left and right channels, 1 plug carrying the center and subwoofer channels. In those cases, you simply turn up the volume on the specified channel. Higher-end speaker systems, rather than relying on 2,3 or 4 separate plugs will usually offer either an optical interface or digital interface where the channels are carried as a single digital signal and then the receiver interprets the signal and then sends the signal to each speaker. Their plugs look like this: 

Honestly, you'd be better off getting a NAS device that supports RAID1. (with a gigabit interface) rather than trying to setting up 2 devices in RAID 1 through USB3. I don't think you'll find a device that is capable of doing what you want. As far as a NAS goes... they're everywhere... and are better suited to what you need. For storing/accessing files, they tend to do better than block-level access devices (native SATA), as your computer doesn't need to ask for sector xxx block xxx etc... it just says gimme file named "blah"... and lets the NAS do the job. One footnote... cheap (price and manufacturing) NAS devices (like cheap USB3 enclosures) will never perform very well. More often than not... they use the cheapest components that may be able to establish a connection at said speed... but the hardware is incapable of making full use of that connection. (under powered processors, insufficient memory, etc...) 

I doubt this has anything to do with DirectSound directly... as it is used in millions of applications without problem. I would suspect that whatever the method is you use to play the file is incorrect. The problem could be anything from bad drivers or disk-caching, or even a badly written application or insufficient resources.. You haven't even told us if WMP was already running prior to clicking "play" or is this from a cold-boot? What is this sound module you're talking about... and how does it relate to your problem? 

You are correct in your assumption that the files are being copied to your machine and then back to the 2nd NAS. The only way to accomplish this is if there is a way to setup some sort of direct file-exchange between the two NAS devices. Either some sort of command-line tool for pushing or pulling the files from the other NAS. If there is no command line tool, perhaps there is a GUI tool like that can be configured to pull data from a remote server. There might also be some options for some other replication tools that might be useful.