Using ALT+TAB, the "Windows Product Activation" dialog can be made active and will then receive keyboard input. 

And if the reason for wanting the auto-logon is to get startup programs running, we might still prefer the workstation to end up locked after power-up. If so, we can place a shortcut in the Startup folder with the following command: 

There's actually a big clue in the message: "Hardware reserved". If checking/unchecking the "Maximum memory" checkbox under Windows isn't helping, the culprit may be the default BIOS settings, which can reserve excessive RAM for graphics hardware. In my case, Windows reported that 1.1G of my installed 8G RAM was "hardware reserved": 

Your notification will reappear eventually, but it may not be today, or tomorrow, or the next day... I came across this announcement today when I viewed this old Windows 8 forum post, and I dare say it is showing in various other places: 

You shouldn't have to do anything in the BIOS etc—it should just work. And your board does support up to 8GB of RAM. Try removing and reseating the memory, to make sure it has connected properly. If that doesn't help, and the memory is of the correct type, one of the 4GB modules you have installed may be defective. Try with one module at a time, to establish whether they both work. 

If the command returns nothing, you don't have KB3035583 installed and until you do have it installed, there's no point proceeding with the rest of these steps. Assuming you have KB3035583 installed, now remove your computer from the domain by putting it in a workgroup, and reboot. (Before removing it from the domain, remember to make sure you have the credentials of the local administrator, as you'll need able to log on to the local machine after the reboot.) Directly on rebooting, the Windows 10 notification appears obligingly in the system tray: 

only my Backup setting was saved: on checking the stored configuration, the Data/Log settings had reverted to Program Files: 

This Microsoft post, as well as confirming that MSVCP100.dll is part of Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package which you've tried reinstalling, also says you should run this command to check/fix your system files: 

No, you're supposed to run its setup program. Windows will take care of where the files live. You just run its setup to install it, then run it from Start. 

If an Office repair doesn't help, and configuring/disabling Windows Firewall doesn't help, this problem can be due to a corrupted Windows file. To check for corrupted Windows files, use the Windows System File Checker by entering the following at an admin command prompt: 

The Windows XP version of MS Paint supports transparency. And users of Windows 7 Professional, Enterprise, or Ultimate can use the XP Mode feature of Windows 7 to run Windows XP in a window, run the old Paint there, and set the transparency of an image file: 

Despite all the key combinations tried, there actually is a key combination that does get a response and gives the dialog focus: ALT+TAB. Although the dialog has the appearance of being the only window open—so that the problem doesn't present itself as a need to switch between windows—there is in fact another window open. The Welcome screen may just look like a background, but the ALT+TAB key sequence works to "switch windows" back to the dialog:    

Adjust your scrollopt settings. Probably you at least want . Position each window (split) so they match up however you like. in each window. Scroll around. Movement in any scroll-bound window will be reflected in all other scroll-bound windows. 

is a dead key in your active input method (keyboard layout). is MacVim letting you know that you are using a Mac OS X input method mode where your keystrokes will probably be given special interpretation. You can manage the available input methods in the Input Sources tab of the Language & Text preference pane in the System Preferences application (i.e. the  > System Preferences… menu item). You will probably want to enable Show Input menu in menu bar at the bottom to make it easy to switch input methods (and enable the Keyboard Viewer where it is easy to see the dead keys (they are a different color)). 

You can (as other answers have indicated) turn to AppleScript or Automator if you need more a more automated solution. Since the extra “moving parts” can add some complexity to the solution, you will have to weigh the benefits of the above process (manual, but flexible) against the the complexity of implementing one or more of the automated solutions. Some of the automation possibilities include: 

You type d. Your local tmux passes it through normally (since the second C-b finished a full command key sequence for the local tmux). Your remote tmux has it bound to ; it detaches the active client. 

The content on your source web page was overzealously reformatted. The text was undoubtedly supposed to use (straight) single quotes (ASCII 39/0x27, U+0027) instead of curly single quotes (U+2018 and U+2019, which are 0x91 and 0x92 in CP1252 (also known as MS-ANSI and WINDOWS-1252; a common 8-bit encoding on Windows)). Vim is showing you the hex codes because they are not valid in whatever encoding Vim is using (probably UTF-8). If you are editing text that has already been saved in a file, then you can reload the file as CP1252 with ; this should make the curly quotes visible. But there is no real reason to reload it as CP1252, just delete the 0x91 and 0x92 characters and replace them with single quotes. 

On most Unix systems (Mac OS X included), the root directory is not generally writable by non-root users. Use your home folder for your files or for files that multiple users need to access. You can usually use ⇧⌘H (Shift-Command-H) to jump to your home directory in Finder and in most Open/Save dialogs. Similarly, you can use ⇧⌘G (Shift-Command-G), then type to get to the shared folder (or go to your home folder, then go up to with ⌘↑ (Command-Up), type to select the folder, then ⌘↓ (Command-Down) to open it). 

Just be aware that any single quote characters in the string value will interact with the single quotes around the that mark the substitution location in the bound command. To get the above command to use as the separator, you would need to type something like at the prompt. 

Further to @Adam Millerchip's answer, we can reduce the password-change effort to what it was prior to joining a domain, when we always had to run control userpasswords2 again every time to store the new password. Now we're on a domain, we can just run a batch file instead that runs control userpasswords2 and also restores our domain and username registry settings: AfterPwdChange.bat 

Note: even if you've used SFC before, do refer to the link as it includes some useful additional info about the SFC log, and actions you can take if SFC says it found a corrupted file but couldn't fix it. 

For "of the simplest type", may we read "it cost next to nothing"? :) You're assuming the problem was caused by the Mac crashing while it was mounted. But probably cause and effect are the other way round: if a computer's writing to a USB device which gets removed prematurely, problems can occur on the device, but in this case it's a media player so your Mac was only reading data from the device. It sounds to me as though your USB stick suffered a hardware failure, crashing the Mac. And it won't work now because, well, it's suffered a hardware failure. Time to get another perhaps. 

When I'm editing several files, Visual Studio makes it obvious which file currently has focus by highlighting its tab in bright yellow. Often, after working in another Visual Studio pane such as Team Explorer, I want to close one of the files I'm editing, but now Visual Studio has lost the yellow highlight and the "active" tab is now virtually the same colour as all the others. The net effect is that I'm looking at a main pane full of text that's clearly the file I want to close, but it's not obvious which tab I need to use to close it, because the tabs above it are now barely distinguishable from one another. The extra click required to bring back the yellow highlight is just an annoyance, but all the little annoyances add up and I'd like to get rid of it if there's a way. On researching this I found that Productivity Power Tools lets you customize tab colours quite a lot, but it doesn't include anything to fix this particular issue. This is VS2013 btw; I dare say it's improved in later versions but we need 2013 at the moment to support some of the codebase so this question is for a way that works with VS2013. 

However, what I found was that while this command did clear the static IP address I'd set, it left the option selected to use a static IP address: 

(run as administrator). If it still doesn't work after applying the recommended actions, right-click the disk in File Explorer and from Properties, Tools press the Check button under Error checking. After a restart this will check your disk and you can then retry the other things once you know your disk is in good shape. 

Put it in your (or an file, and ). I can not test it on Windows, but the only thing that is platform specific is the use of , but I think Emacs converts the Windows equivalent (a combination of several environment variables?) to . 

First, as a stat format, "%Sdr" is interpreted as the field selector, modified by the specifier, followed by a literal lower-case R character. The manpage would probably be more clear if it said "d, r" instead of "dr" under the description of . and are both separate field selectors. selects the device number from the stat(2) info (i.e. st_rdev; only useful when stat-ing device entries (i.e. the entries under /dev)). selects the device number of the device which holds the stat-ed entry (i.e. st_dev). The number it prints is a combination of the major and minor numbers shown by ls (major << 24 | minor). is a modifier that can be applied to both , , and several other field selectors. When applied to or , it tries to print the name of the device instead of its raw number. Some devices, like the virtual filesystem devices, do not have proper names, so it prints instead (it might be nicer if it printed instead). This does not mean that these filesystems do not have devices, just that their devices do not have normal names like "disk0s3". The “shell weirdness” (“apparently arbitrary subset of files from CWD”) is due to a lack of quoting. The shell sees the (unquoted) "???" result and expands it as a glob pattern. If the cwd contains any entries with exactly three bytes (characters, depending on locale?), the shell will substitute those entries for the glob pattern. The behavior (the quoting and the glob expansion) varies by shell, and can usually be modified by various shell options. You can modify your original command like this to avoid the globbing and the trailing "r": 

You can set the server option to suppress many of the messages that are displayed in the status line (including the message shown by ). This will not suppress messages that come from using the command. If the option is too broad*, or you want to be able to review the messages with †, then you might try setting the session option to a very small value‡. This will affect all messages (even those from ), so it also may not be appropriate for all situations. If you are only interested in suppressing the message from that one command/binding, and you are comfortable building software from source, then you might want to try out the current SVN trunk. Its command has a option that suppresses the normal informational message (i.e. ). This will be included in the next release (i.e. 1.7). * is is a server option, so it will affect all your sessions. † prevents the message from being entered into the message log. By default, (prefix) ~ is bound to . ‡ must be from the range 1–750. So zero is not a valid value, but the minimum value (1 millisecond) will probably be too fast to notice in most circumstances (e.g. unless your tmux server is on the other side of a slow link).