Nowodays, many ethernet interfaces are 'auto MDI/MDIX'. They detect the type of device connected and if needed reverse internally Transmit and Receive. This allow connection of 2 devices of the same layer with straight-through cable. APIPA is specifically made to provide IP addresses and allow IP communication in a network where there's no DHCP server. There's a subnet mask associated with APIPA-assigned IP addresses, it is 255.255.0.0 (I.E. /16). On a windows 7 machine this subnet mask is shown by "ipconfig /all". Maybe windows 8 or 10 hide it because it's implicit with APIPA, but I cannot check it right now. 

There's nothing even remotely related to identity. As for the grey area "Multicast" in you picture it is the line: 

In this book 6th edition, this sentence is in section 4.2, page 313 The complete preamble of this chapter is as follow: 

You can't. Packet tracert is a closed simulator, which cannot be connected to anything outside of the program. To do this you can use GNS3 (free - but require real Ciso IOS software images that are not free) or Cisco VIRL (payed) for example. But those require more resources (especially RAM) than Packet Tracer. 

Yes, as long as there's several flow. In a bond, a single flow will use only one physical link, and will be limited by the bandwidth of this specific link. But different flow can use different links, thus increasing the overall network bandwidth. (depending of the algorithm used in the bond, a flow can be defined by source / destination MAC addresses and/or IP addresses and/or even TCP / UDP ports) Regarding you VOIP server, that should really be a separate question, but you could use VPN on the mobile devices for example. 

There's several reasons: Cable Length and rack organization as explained by @John K in his answer this allow to adjust cable length at need. This also allow to organize the rack properly. Cable weariness With the time the cable, and especially the connector, may get screwed up and can cause various network issue very hard to diagnostic. If you must redo the connector, you need to get someone experimented with the proper tool, and then have the cable certified again. This will cost and will also shorten the cable. A patch panel with, fixed cable properly attached, is much more resilient, easier to diagnose, and you only need to change the inexpensive patch cable. Multiple usage Structured cabling is not use only for Ethernet connection. You can use it to connect for example a phone / DSL line, a fax or other device using a RJ11 or RJ12 connector, or a console cable (very useful to get the console of a network device in your comfortable office rather than in a noisy and cold IT rool). 

The "gateway" notion is for host. Since the Gateway column list an IP that belongs to the network, I assume it is actually the IP assigned to the router interface (I.E. it is the IP that the connected hosts uses as a gateway). But it is irrelevant for routing decision performed by the router. So we have to assume the interface column is what matters. Second, it's not clear what the intended result is but this could be a solution: 

Functionally speaking, a VLAN capable wifi Access Point is a switch. So you treat the link between the HP swicth and the APs the same way as between 2 switches. I.E. trunk ports. Note that here I use the term "trunk" for a port on which several tagged VLAN are allowed. In HP terminology "trunk" refers to link aggregation, which has nothing to do with VLANs. Since you didn't provide VLAN number, I'll give some example with arbitrary numbers. Let's use : 

The load balancing can be configures (on Cisco devices) to be per packet or per destination. Quote from How Does Load Balancing Work ? 

Yes it is possible, it's basically what VPN are used for. An added complexity in your case is that both LAN use the same IP addressing. To solve this you have the following options: 

So in normal operation, the DHCPACK message will be unicast (I.E. Layer2 unicast), directed to the client MAC Address. In a modern, switched, environnement, the other hosts will not see the final ACK. In an old network that still use hubs, all network interface card in the layer 2 network will still see the related frames, but are not supposed to process them, so they will not transmit them to the operating system unless set in promiscuous mode. 

This is circuit-switched network vs packet-switching network circuit-switched network In such networks, a physical dedicated line is established between the two hosts who wants to communicate. The better example is the first phone networks where human operators manually connect two phone lines to establish communications on request. 

Port isolation -also called private VLAN (thanks @Stuggi)- is a very useful feature for switches that connect end users. In a typical network you will have many end-users computers grouped together in a VLAN that communicates with some servers in other networks. Those computers have no need to communicate together, so it's best to block those unwanted communication. For example, if a user is infected by a virus (received either by email or by browsing a website), which spread itself on all accessible computers in the LAN, it will infect all machines. Port isolation will prevent this. ACL are more intended to filter what pass from a network / VLAN to another, not inside a single network/VLAN. 

but it doesn't work and I don't understand how the "rd" part works. The switch is a MSN2700 with MLNX-OS version 3.6.3508. The switch current configuration is: 

Apple Bonjour protocol use Multicast DNS, which has been normalized in RFC6762 and RFC6763. It uses multicast IPv4 address or IPv6 address An bonjour enabled device will announce itself by multicast; so what you have to do is to examine traffic sent to 224.0.0.251 (with TCDPUMP, wireshark or equivalent). 

No, the source mac address that used in the algorithm is the source mac address in the Ethernet frame to be transmitted (I.E. the mac address of the host that sent the frame), it has nothing to do with the switch port mac address. (and many switches don't have a per-port mac address). 

TL,DR search here: $URL$ (search box in the upper right) Detail The Internet IP addresses are managed by the IANA: Internet Assigned Numbers Authority IANA assign block of IP addresses to the five Regional Internet Registry (RIR) 

For this test lab, I miss some SFP so there's only one physical link between each switch (and those link are copper using 1000BASE-T Copper SFP). All 3 switches have VLAN 17 up and configured with an IP address: 

The first address of a subnet is reserved, it is the . The last address is also reserved, it is the . This leave you 2 usable addresses: 13 and 14. So you use one for your equipment and the other one is the ISP gateway address. Note that, to avoid wasting IP addresses, a point to point link can be configured with a /31 network, in which there's only 2 addresses. This is an exception, defined in RFC3021 in which the addresses that are normally used for network and broadcast can be configured on hosts. For information a point to point link can also be configured as , in this case you route the traffic trough interface rather than IP. 

I have no clue about the internal clock stability, but it doesn't matter much since you absolutely want those devices to be be synchronized, i.e. be NTP clients of a trusted source. This is the only way to ensure that logs (or snmp traps or whatever monitoring you use) are consistent among the devices, to allow a good interpretation. Of course there should be no significant deviation between two NTP update. I have no real data about this but I never saw this problem arise with properly configured devices. 

As you can seed the destination IP address is NOT the gateway. So the router receive this frame, strip the Ethernet header and lookup the packet to perform a routing decision. The basic of routing is that the routing decision is made solely on the destination IP address, 203.0.113.5 The router then look in its routing table, find a route for 203.0.113.5 and send the packet through the associated interface (performing NAT if configured which is required here). As you can see, the IP address of the gateway that was used has no role in the routing decision. And, more importantly, the router does not even know what was this IP address. It only know on which interface the frame arrived Ok so, why not configuring 2 different gateways on two different interfaces. Well you can't, not on a Cisco router. You cannot have two overlapping networks on two different layer 3 interfaces. Otherwise the router could not decide on which interface it must send a packet for this network. This is why your dual gateway cannot work. But more importantly, it's not required to achieve your goal. What could work? Now if you want the router to take a different routing decision based on the sender, it is possible. It's called (PBR) PBR allow you to configure different routing table on the router, and perform routing decision on different criteria. The most common (and easy to configure) criteria are the source IP address and destination IP address. Note that you can specify the outgoing interface rather than the next-hop IP, which is handy for a outgoing interface configured by DHCP. So what you have to do (if I understood correctly what you want), is to: 

Edit in response to the last sentence of the original post. You should not be afraid to appear as "dumb". We all did mistake, often much more serious than this one. Only people that do nothing never do mistakes. I would not trust at all someone that claims he never made error. It's a liar. But I do trust people that do mistakes, endorse them, and do their best to correct them. Errors are one of the best way to learn... (see you will learn how to connect to a Cisco device trough serial console, which is still a must-have skill in network engineering). 

and is particularly handy if you use virtual machines. iptables allow you to modify, NAT or drop packets (or event frames) on the fly. Many commercial solutions (including proxy as discussed in the question comments) are based on those software pieces. As explained by @vera in her answer you need to configure your network so the traffic pass through your machine. This is very dependent on your network setup. 

DHCP server doesn't consume many resources, you will have very little gain by removing it from the router, and it will be more difficult to manage. but anyway, according to this documentation, page 67 you cannot use your AP as DHCP servers: 

You can configure VLAN on the linux server, but this is not needed. The easiest way is to configure the switch so the port on which you connect eth1 is in access mode for the wanted VLAN. Also VLAN 0 is a special VLAN, don't use it. Note that you shouldn't have the same network (192.168.100.0/24) on 2 different interfaces. 

You are confusing MTU and MSS. The MTU 1500 is related to ethernet, so it includes the IP and TCP headers. Both have a minimum size of 20, so the MSS (maximum segment size) for TCP is in this case 1500 - 20 - 20 = 1460. Note that both the IP header and the tcp header can have a size greater than 20, when using options, and so you may still encounter fragmentation with message shorter than 1460 bytes. Additionally your packet may traverse other networks that have a different MTU. A VPN will also add a header that will further reduce the effective MSS. 

If you connect a cable between two ports, each one in a separate VLAN as access port, then you end up with having a single VLAN This is exactly the same as having two different physical switches and connecting them together with a cable. If this computer must be on a separate network, then you have to create a third VLAN for this computer, then route - and filter - the traffic to/from this computer on a router. So you need a router that is VLAN capable and have the security features needed to reach whatever security level you want to achieve. Most enterprise grade router do have some way to filter the traffic that can come from or reach a specific network (access lists). If this computer really need a high level of security then you may need a firewall that perform packet inspection. 

It's hard to say exactly what the question is. Maybe you should rephrase it, with something like : "Is fortinet implementation of VRRP RFC-Compliant?" The fact is the RFC3768 is obsoleted by RFC5798, where it is stated in section 3 : 

will give you the IP address of the DHCP server that gave you the dhcp lease. Also most modern operating systems support Automatic Private IP addressing ("APIPA") that will give a network config if there's no DHCP server. If the IP address you get begin with 169.254. then it's an APIPA address and there's no rogue DHCP server. 

You can't use both a full /24 network and in the same time some subnets of this network. (that's of course true for any network size). First, most router will not allow to configure overlapping network, be it on different interfaces or on the same interface. However some routers will allow it, so what happens in this case? Let say you configure: eth1 with ip address eth2 with IP address then you will have in the routing table two entries 

If you want to separate the "work" wifi from the internal LAN, we add VLAN5 for Internal LAN and this give us: 

It depends of the brand of the switches. Many switches will let tagged traffic pass trough the ports configured in access mode, so creating many loops that may be cut by spanning tree. Check the spanning tree status of each ports ("forwarding" or "blocking") on both switches and you will have your answer.