The first two steps are not critical if you have a static IP. I will also assume that you have a PC at work (the PC at work also requires XP pro not home), and you will access it from home using your home PC. The solution I will give you is probably better than a VPN for most uses. 

I am with MBraedley and Flimzy when then say get a router...it is the best way. If you are hellbent on sharing your Internet connection, called ICS in Windows, read/watch this: $URL$ (says Vista, but also works for Windows 7...does not work with a wireless connection, even though not applicable in this case) $URL$ 

They are not really universal at all. First, you need to have the same connector. Then you need the same voltage and polarity, and at least the same amperage. Can you take pictures of the connector and the sticker on the PSU (the one with the voltage) and upload them? Addition: I just found this OEM manufacturer's web page selling replacement PSU's. They are not very expensive, so I would consider just buy from them. $URL$ 

Boris, try this link and see if you can get it: $URL$ Live Essentials: $URL$ We did a remote session, and the problem was the Teredo tunnel, related to IPv6. The solution was going to Device Manager, enabling hidden devices, then disabling it under Network Adapters solved the problem. 

The only real limitations to "not genuine" software are that non-security updates (free programs, although I think IE is not subject to this) cannot be downloaded from Microsoft (but they would actually install if you got them elsewhere), and the nags like the 5-second wait to log in, the black screen, and the logo telling you it is counterfeit. To download the non-security updates and free products, like Microsoft Security Essentials, you must install components of the "Windows Genuine Advantage" initiative, which validates your install, and lets you continue your download. Even without that, the PC will continue to function indefinitely, and they can install any software packages on it they want, including legitimate software packages from Microsoft like Office. There are no other restrictions other than the download from Microsoft aspect. The only client I ever "fired" was because of their extensive use of counterfeit software, and they had virtually nothing that was legal when I first started, and it was like pulling teeth to get them to buy anything legally. Your client should be gently urged to buy a legitimate copy of Windows, as you have done. $URL$ $URL$ 

You will need to give them all their own username. Then give all the users read-only rights to the default directory. Give only the authorized user permissions to their subdirectory, and make sure that no one else even has read. If you want, you can even specifically give the deny right to users you don't want to have access to a specific directory. 

Here is the nslookup results. To be honest, I saw groupon, and thought there is no way such a big company would not be set up right, but now I am not so sure: 

Try uninstalling Dell Support Center again, delete anything else that may be in its original install directory (you have to look, but it is probably in c:\Program files), then run CCleaner's registry cleaner. I also agree with running (I would run it 2-3 times though). $URL$ 

It really depends on the server's function: You can literally start with no roles installed. The one function you mention, "Remote Desktop Host", is actually called the "Remote Desktop Services" role, and the Remote Desktop application in Windows is used to use this service. This role was formerly known as "Terminal Services". Even without that role, Server 2008 R2 comes with the ability for two people to simultaneously log in using Remote Desktop, however, if you wish to use that role for additional simultaneous users, you will need to install the role, and purchase separate Remote Desktop Services Client Access Licenses for each user, in addition to the regular Server 2008 user CAL's. When you purchase these Remote Desktop Services CAL's, you will be able to enter them into you Remote Desktop Services license server. Without this, you only have a 120-day trial period, which is fully functional, but will cease to work after that without the license server and licenses entered into it. $URL$ As the others said, if it requires any roles, which I doubt based on a Google search, it will probably install them automatically, or the documentation will spell it out. Most ordinary applications do not require special roles unless they are integrated in Active Directory, then they require those related roles. I believe the answer to your basic question is "none". 

Here is a basic overview of routing. Basically, the first thing to realize is that there are various levels of routers, and routing. The first bit of routing is really done by your PC, and its routing table. Part of the routing table includes a destination of 0.0.0.0, which is a catch all for anything it does not know how to specifically route itself, so it sends that traffic to the default gateway. The routing table keeps track of the local networks it is connected to, and for anything it does not know about, it uses that default gateway. Next is your home router and cable modem. Both are similar in nature in that they are VERY basic. They really only know about the networks that are on either side of them. They also use routing tables, which are pretty simple, and also have a similar catch all route for anything they do not know about, so they can pass the traffic on. Once the traffic gets to your ISP and beyond, you get into very complex routers, which have many interfaces to allow for multiple routes, and have VERY complex routing tables. These routers can cost $500,000 and up. They mostly use the BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) to keep their routing tables up-to-date dynamically, so they can find the shortest route, and if a particular router along that route goes down, they can re-route the traffic. They talk to other routers regularly to find out what paths are open, and update their routing tables based on that. $URL$ As far as how the traffic finds its way back, when you send out a data packet, there is a header that keeps track of where it came from, and where it is going to. I am not sure what you were asking at the end. 

Add that batch file to any place you want to run it from...logon script, group policy, etc. I tested this, but in case I typed anything wrong, and it does not work, post back. 

The extra USB port is an either/or, not both. You could use Internet Connection Sharing, but really, I recommend that if you can somehow, just get an intermediate wireless router with an incorporated switch. Windows 7 has removed this feature, so you need to use the other computer to be the primary if it is running Vista or XP. $URL$ $URL$ 

Start by opening a command prompt and run the command: sfc /scannnow . That will check to make sure that all your important Windows files are correct and intact. See if it does it in Safe Mode. If that does not do it, you will need to figure out what process is killing you. Open msconfig.exe and go to the startup tab. Uncheck or disable them all. Then see if that fixes it. Re-enable them one, or a few at a time until you find the one that is causing the problems. Repair or reinstall the program associated with that startup item. If none of this works, there are other ways you could have infected yourself, so just in case, run both Malwarebytes and Superantispyware. 

The upgrade for Flash player for IE and Firefox is two different programs. For IE, it is an ActiveX control, for Firefox (and the other browsers), it is a plugin. It looks like you were somehow running both simultaneously. Go to this site with BOTH browsers and check your plugins: $URL$ (it says Mozilla, think Firefox, but works for any browser) I suspect you may have actually already updated one (the first one that was running), and that only the second failed. Any plugins not updated will be reported to you, and will link you to the download. I might also suggest that you reboot and try this. Do one browser at a time. Give this a try, and if you actually have more serious problems, post back. 

It can just redraw the screen, or it can reload a page, like in a browser...it depends on where you hit it. It is worth noting that with some web sites, you need to hit to refresh the cache and refresh the page. 

For the logs and system path, just go to Servers>Server Name>First Storage Group>Properties. Just click "Browse" and pick the new location, and hit OK. It will automatically remount the database. For the Mailbox Store database (and/or streaming database), just go to Servers>Server Name>First Storage Group>Mailbox Store>Properties>Database. Just click "Browse" and pick the new location, and hit OK. It will automatically remount the database. For the public folders, do the same, except instead of the mailbox store, click on the Public Folder Store. I would not worry at all about the permissions if your domain administrator account is the account you used to install Exchange. They will automatically have the rights necessary. If you made and Exchange-specific administrator account, give that account the permissions in the article. There are no registry entries to change UNLESS YOU DELETE THE FOLDER (just leave the empty folder there instead), and you do not need to reboot. You do not need to cut and paste anything: It moves it for you (does not leave a copy behind). It is actually incredibly simple to do, and reasonably quick depending on how large your database is. 

You are probably not going to find a comprehensive list, but you can find links to ones that people compile and feel are the best: $URL$ $URL$ I Googled "outlook 2010 add-ins" and "outlook 2010 add-ins best" (both minus the quotes). Are you looking for one in particular? 

I would follow this document, but if it does not work, you may simply be out of luck. The point of it is encrypted so that it cannot be easily broken, or broken at all. $URL$ 

I would turn it off, get a new drive to clone to it, and use Clonezilla or another imaging software ASAP. Get it from another PC. i would not run any disk utilities like chkdsk as you are correct, that my push it over the edge. $URL$ The only exception would be if you have any critical data that is not saved anywhere else, I would try to get that immediately. 

You are not going to get that data from a normal command prompt. You can try either of the following: Non-command line since it is easier. Right-click the file, and go to properties>details. If the information you want is not there, unless you have some additional file monitoring system in place. From a command line, you can use wmic. For more information, see the following document. $URL$ 

And set the binding order so that "[Remote Access connections]" is at the top. Assuming that you are picking up the Domain's DNS server for that connection, so you can resolve to Domain servers, this will force your computer to use that DNS server.