I'm working on a complex project that includes Linux and Cisco routers. I am fairly new to networking and i'm using cisco command lines for the first time, so please be nice and don't hesitate to suggest/correct me. A simplified network scheme could be this one The computers are running under Linux/Xenomai. They have two network interfaces. Real-time data are using 192.168.1.1 address and is only UDP. Monitoring/ssh is using 192.168.2.1 address. Those two interfaces are connected to a Cisco router, which WAN address is 10.11.151.X. The cisco router is doing NAT on our packets, so they can cross the network and acces the distant router, which NAT backwards. 192.168.1.1 using port 2100 goes in router, is natted to 10.11.151.1 using port 2100 and vice-versa. I have two different pairs of routers: a Cisco RV325 and a Cisco C891f-k9. The C891f-k9 router configuration is the following (I removed users/security and unused interfaces before posting) : 

The RV325 is a very basic router configured with web interface. I did some tests using the RV325 pair of routers and the same tests using the C891f-K9. With this configuration, I am observing poor performances with C891F compared to the RV325. I can't explain the differences. I was hoping that the high-end router would do better than the RV325, but it's the opposite. I checked the CPU usage of the C891f when in use and it's barely 10%. So my questions are: Is this configuration good? Do you have any tips that could help me with performance issues? Are there some services that I could shut down to improve router efficiency/latency? As I said, I'm new to network and routing, so don't hesitate to ask for explanations or to advise me. Thank you for the help. EDIT: Thank you for the help. I managed to do some tests and our performances are still not good. How tests are done: We have a computer plugged on each server we have. This computer generates traffic and records the incoming traffic. Our machines are configured to just pack/unpack the packets. Then we compare the sent data and the receive: we find the corresponding data and we compare the timestamp. This timestamp difference gives us the total amount of time needed to cross our system. With the cisco rv325, the mean is 200µs. With the C891F, the mean is 450µs. I also checked the ping from the machine that is directly connected to the router: rv325 ping is >400µs and c891f-k9 is ~600µs. From now, I believe that there is nothing more I can do on the configuration. I believe that the issue is the router itself that does not suit our needs. EDIT 2: Thank you all for your help. It helped me a lot. The conclusion is that this series of router does not suit our needs. The most stable and efficient solution we found is to install pfSense on a standard computer (intel i5 with 8Go RAM and intel i350 4 ethernet ports). With this, we have a latency of ~0.2ms with no pikes and no lost packets. This is, by far, the best we have done for the moment and probably the best we could achieve. 

useful tool can help you to make good wireless survey is wifi analyzer on the android phones. its can work on both ranges 2.4 and 5 GHZ 

short answer yes you could with no problem , repeater should work as a two port switch . i believe in that if this two port repeater is POE or POE+ just main that it will need extra power adapter to provide the host with this POE but not affect its data payload . so first of all test this repeater with simple ping . 

a good tutorial for netstate commands NETSTATE COM i know it is a very hard way to do so but it is free of charge 

What you need to focus on is BSSID value. This is the MAC address of the AP that you are being connected. Now you can go check the MAC address on the APs’ information label to find out which one you are connected to. please check thise link Which Access Point am I connected to? 

the difference is that ;if you use trunk mode , , automatically the native vlan will pass through the link with the allowed vlans . so you will get OTHER vlan on the trunk . but when you use access mode you made sure that only one vlan will pass through the link. please make use of this link 

here i used the recommendations of making the DHCP server an external server and just use the command IP helper X.X.X.X in cisco 4500X under each interface vlan to relay DHCP to hosts in this vlan , so that i can get IP on the host machine but when i try to ping machine in other vlan which also obtain its ip from this DHCP server , ping is time out . when i disable ip helper command and make my core switch as DHCP server for each vlan ,inter-vlan routing work probably and i could ping remote host in other vlans . note i did same configuration on the DR site on cisco 4506 core switch and it's work probably. 

WISP Setup Provider (Wireless Internet Service Provider) with networks built around wireless networking. Technology may include commonplace Wi-Fi wireless mesh networking, or proprietary equipment designed to operate over open band 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, 4.9, 5.2, 5.4, 5.7, and 5.8 GHz bandsor licensed frequencies in the UHF band (including the MMDS frequency band) and LMDS 

Active ASA and standby ASA communicates through failover link. If active ASA detects its interface to switch is down, then it tells the standby ASA and the standby ASA becomes active. How does the switch connected to both ASAs know to divert traffic to standby ASA which becomes active after the interface to the original active ASA is down? Any required configuration on the switch? 

The distance between AP and the switch is around 60 meters. The AP is powered up and SSIDs are broadcasted. But the Ethernet interface has line Protocol down. I have changed the RJ45 connectors on both side of the cable but still same behaviour. Is this related to the cable length? 

I have a pair of Cisco ASAs running in active/standby failover mode which I manage using the management interface. Lately, I frequently have to travel and the VPN to the university's LAN has different IP subnet from the ASA management interface. So, I cannot access the management interface when using different IP subnet. My understanding is this is due to asymmetric routing issue and the only way to overcome this is by using multiple context mode. Right now, I am not clear about the changes of configuration to be made on ASAs. The ASA uses EIGRP. Note: The pair of ASAs that I am responsible to are not the firewall for entire university campus, just for a single network which contains freenas servers for a few researchers. The VPN gateway is at different firewall and managed by official IT team. 

I read the Cisco documentation of Cisco 3850 and have not found configuration to send email when interface is down. ASA can do this. I really appreciate if anyone know how to share the configuration. 

DTP by default has 300 seconds of Dynamic Trunk timeout. So, Switch B will change its port operational mode to "static access" if it will have not received any DTP advertisement to trunk in the next 300 seconds [after it changes the port operational mode to "static access" or since the receive of the DTP advertisement to trunk]. I tested and the Switch B's port operational mode was changed from "trunk" to "static access" after 300 seconds. Note: The statement in [ ] is not confirmed. It is supposed to be either one. 

Let's say I'm migrating my network to new infrastructure. So, the new site and the old site are connected using private ASs. I wonder if there is any benefit for the new site to advertise /24 along with >=/25 to the old site. The old site only advertises >=/25 to the new site.