On Switch2, use descriptions on the interfaces. Also, you will also need a password on the VTY lines if expect to connect to the switch via telnet. 

Don't confuse layer-1 broadcast (sending a signal everywhere) to a layer-2 or layer-3 broadcast (sending frames or packets addressed for every host). The original ethernet was on coax, a broadcast medium. Every host could hear everything on the network segment. That is why ethernet adopted MAC (Media Access Control). An ethernet host only listens to frames addressed to it (including unicast to its MAC address, broadcast, and multicast for groups to which it has subscribed), even though all the frames reach every host on the link. The medium has nothing to do with how the frames are addressed. Think about your cable television. All the channels are being broadcast on the medium all the time, but the cable provider doesn't send each channel individually to all the homes; it sends each video frame on each channel once, and a television in any home can display it if it is listening to that channel. The cable ISP also only sends a data frame once, the way it happens in ethernet. The shared medium may deliver it to all the sites on a segment the way cable video is sent once to all the homes on a segment. A cable modem only listens to frames destined to its specific address, ignoring all the others. The same thing happens when your cable modem sends something back to the ISP. The frame may received by all the cable modems on the segment, but only the ISP equipment is listening to frames addressed to it. For your ethernet broadcast, a switch only sends the frame once to each switch interface. It doesn't make a copy for each host on the LAN, and it is no more onerous for a switch to copy broadcast frames to every interface than it is for the switch to switch a single frame to a single other interface. There can be multiple hosts on each switch interface (think hubs or switches connected to a switch interface). The problem with broadcast on ethernet is that it interrupts every host on the LAN, and it uses bandwidth on every switch interface. You may be thinking about a broadcast storm, where bridged (switches are bridges) ethernet has a bridging loop, so that broadcast frames never die, they just accumulate until the LAN collapses. 

Just separate the two networks with a firewall, and set up the firewall rules to allow, or not, traffic in the manner you choose. 

You may find yourself limited by what you can do with OM1 in the future. As you get faster connections (think 10 Gbps) you will find the distance is limited (~33 meters/100 feet at 10 Gbps for OM1). 

You are confusing two different things. VLANs and subnets (networks) are not mutually exclusive, and are almost always used together, one-to-one. Based on your edit, it seems that you are, indeed, using VLANs, and you have a different network assigned to each VLAN. Trunks carry VLANs. As several others have explained here, VLANs are a layer-2 construct. The ethernet frames, which encapsulate your IP packets, have the option of having a VLAN tag in the frame header to separate which frames are in which VLAN on a trunk. The IP addresses are in the layer-3 packet header which is encapsulated in the layer-2 frame. The two concepts have nothing to do with each other, except that it is an almost universal practice to have each layer-3 network use a different layer-2 VLAN. You should learn about the OSI model. Understand that it is just a model, and the real world doesn't always match, but it is useful to understand it since the first four layers match networking pretty well. Also classful networking is dead, and it has been since 1995, killed by CIDR and VLSM. You can forget the Class A/B/C stuff in your network since you are using CIDR and VLSM. 

That depends on your equipment and software. For instance, many Cisco devices can use NBAR to do deep packet inspection in order to identify upper layer protocols in use. 

If you specifically set the router ID, then that is what the router ID will be. Chapter: EIGRP Commands: 

Edit: Here is an example where I pinged the next-hop router VLAN interface, and then I pinged the router Loopback0 interface, with a TTL of 1. I received ICMP replies for every ping attempt, but the pings to the loopback expired in transit: 

There is only one way to use OSPF without an Area 0, and that is to use OSPF with a single area. If you only have one OSPF area, you can number it any way you like, but if you have even two areas, you must have an Area 0. 

Cisco routers and switches can certainly ignore LLDP, but neither will they pass LLDP frames on. LLDP is a link protocol, meaning is won't go beyond the link on which it was originated. There are many such link-only protocols that are never passed beyond the link on which they originate. The only way to make something like this work is with devices that are simply layer-1 devices like media converters or hubs, not layer-2 (or above) devices like bridges or switches. 

Yes. Nobody will advertise any network smaller than a /48. The same thing is in IPv4; no ISP will advertise any network smaller than a /24. The problem is the sheer number of routes that would generate on the Internet by advertising networks smaller than a /48. Even at /48 with the current global address range of 2000::/3, that translates to 35,184,372,088,832 possible routes. In fact, IANA had a rule that nobody (even individuals) should get networks smaller than /48. The ISPs eventually overruled that for individuals, giving them /56. Each site is supposed to have at least a /56, and a company gets at least a /48 which the company can advertise. If you wish to advertise individual sites, they each need a /48 (or a /56 out of separate /48s). You can go to the RIR and get a smaller mask. For instance, we got a /32 from each RIR. 

You either get to have DHCP, or you get to use fixed addresses, but you don't get to use both, secondary address, or not. Unless you are getting an IP address via DHCP from an ISP (in which case, I don't think a static address would work, anyway), I don't normally like the idea of using DHCP to configure network infrastructure devices. There is just too much that can go wrong and isolate part of the network. 

That looks like a host with a bad network mask and/or no gateway set. There is a single address from which the requests are sourced (), but the destinations for many of the the requests are outside the network. 

There is a problem with IGMP snooping across switches since the IGMP message on one switch doesn't get send to the other switch, so the switch with the source will not know that the port to the other switch should receive the multicast frames. Cisco has a document which describes the problem (and Cisco-specific solutions). This is not a vendor-specific problem, but a solution would be vendor-specific. From what I can tell, for the HP 2810, you will need to manually set the switch-to-switch ports to Cisco's explanation of the problem: 

It depends on whether or not the printer has a NIC and built-in print server. Many new printers will work this way with built-in ethernet and/or Wi-Fi adapters. The diagram shows something that once was very common: a printer connected to a file/print server. For what it's worth, the word "trunk" has a connotation as a switch link which carries multiple VLANs. The diagram is just showing a network, typically a single VLAN. 

Yes, this should work since the channel is switch-to-switch ethernet from the perspective of the switches. If you don't actually need to negotiate the channel, why use a channel negotiation protocol? That's just one more unnecessary complication. With Cisco switches on each side of the channel, why not just use the command. You don't seem to need channel negotiation. On the positive side, failover with channels is faster than even rapid spanning-tree. On the negative side, some of your traffic is traveling on the backup link, which may be sub-optimal. As a side note: I'm not really a fan of trying to have a layer-2 domain across something like this. There are very few things that require sharing a layer-2 domain; most things today can be layer-3 connected. 

You probably want to run iBGP between your WAN routers, but make sure you have a direct link between the WAN routers. There are failure scenarios where not having the direct link can cause prefixes to be blackholed, especially if you run iBGP to other routers on the LAN.. You can use either iBGP or OSPF for you LAN routers, but iBGP requires a full mesh or a mitigation (route reflectors or confederations). That is because an iBGP speaker cannot advertise an iBGP learned prefix to another iBGP speaker. This is often not appropriate because it can limit your LAN topology. You can run OSPF without the full mesh limitation of iBGP, and you could use a single or multiple areas, whichever is most appropriate for your site. 

Switches are not like hubs. Hubs repeat every frame out every port. Switches selectively send the layer-2 frames to the port where the receiving host is connected. Switches are layer-2 devices, so they only look at the layer-2 frames, not the layer-3 (IP, etc.) packets, or the layer-4 (TCP, UDP, etc.) segments. Switches learn the MAC addresses which are connected on each port from the traffic through each port, and they only send frames destined for a MAC address on a port to that port. Switches will flood broadcast frames to every port (but that's the point of a broadcast, it is destined to every host on the broadcast domain), as well as unicasts which are not yet in its MAC address table. The HPE 1920-8G-PoE+ is also a layer-3 switch. Layer-3 is where you will find IP packets, but layer-3 routing only sends IP packets to the ports which have the network of the destination IP address. You didn't include any configuration, but I seriously doubt you have a problem with traffic which is not destined to a host connected to your WAPs traveling to your WAPs. Edit: Based on your comment about this being multicast, you need to use IGMP snooping to deal with your problem. Multicast frames, like broadcast frames, are usually sent to all switch ports in the same broadcast domain. IGMP snooping lets a switch snoop on IGMP messages to determine which switch ports should receive frames for which multicast groups. Your switch supports IGMP snooping: 

The current model for IPv4/IPv6 translation is defined in RFC 4213, Basic Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and Routers: 

You're not really specific about what you are looking for. There are a lot of different commands that can give you different statistics. It's not really like a Windows PC, if that is the sort of thing you are looking for. Edit: 

Any network addresses you use in your own company that are in use or assigned to a different company on the public Internet will be inaccessible to your users trying to reach those addresses on the public Internet, and you will not be able to advertise to the public Internet any addresses assigned to a different company. There are three ranges of private addresses assigned by RFC 1918: 

It's not really all that difficult. When you bisect a network, such as a data center, the bisection bandwidth is the bandwidth usable to get from one side of the bisection to the other, possibly asymmetric values, depending on the topology. There may be links between the two sides which are unavailable for use due to things like STP blocking, and they don't count. One definition of full bandwidth would be a 1:1 ratio between the aggregate bandwidth which the hosts in one section have to the available bandwidth between the two sections. Another definition of full bandwidth is that there is no unavailable bandwidth between the two sections, regardless of the subscription ratio. Over-subscription is where the aggregate bandwidth of the hosts in one section is greater than the available bandwidth to the other section. Under-subscription is where the aggregate bandwidth of the hosts in one section is less than the available bandwidth to the other section. Ideally, you would have full bandwidth between any two sections, no matter how you bisect the network. Practically, this is often not feasible, due to things like cost. Studies have been done on what level of over-subscription is acceptable at various points in a network. 

You probably want to shape to a percentage of your actual link rate if your WAN bandwidth is a sub-rate of the interface speed. For instance, if your interface is a 1 Gb interface, but your WAN bandwidth is only 10 Mb, you probably want to shape to something like 95% of the 10 Mb (shape rate = , shape BC = ) to account for protocol overhead. If you use a real-time protocol like VoIP that has a lot of very small packets, you will want to decrease the percentage. You don't need to do that for a full-rate WAN bandwidth. Apply the shaping policy to the physical interface instead of your original policy map. The shaping policy calls your original policy map. 

Directly connected networks Statically configured routes Dynamically learned routes from routing protocols 

If you directly connect two different VLANs, you will have created a single broadcast domain from two separate broadcast domains. That means that the separate VLANs are unnecessary, or you have made a mistake that can cause you problems. If you are using the same network addressing on both of the VLANs, you need to make sure that all the addresses used by the hosts are unique, otherwise you will have some serious trouble. Also, you cannot route traffic between the VLANs because a router will not route traffic from one network to the same network, and you cannot even set up two router interfaces in the same network. It actually makes no sense to have separate VLANs that are in the same network that are connected to create a single VLAN. Simply use the same VLAN for both. The switch interfaces will not err-disable unless you are running bpduguard on the interfaces. 

Most managed switches can have a management interface on any VLAN, which may or may not be a VLAN used on any of the ports. if you are using VLAN 10 with the subnet for the access ports, the switch management interface could be on the same, or a different, VLAN with a completely different address, such as with a gateway of , or it may not even have a configured management interface. Using doesn't do any good unless the switch is a layer-3 switch and it is the gateway of the subnet you are on since it only counts router hops. There is not really any "magic" method to discover this unless you have console access, and you would still need to know the management password. Your best bet is to contact the manufacturer about your problem. 

This will allow inside hosts to originate TCP connections to outside hosts, and allow the outside hosts to respond on the established connections, but it will block any other traffic from the outside. Cisco maintains many documents for things like this (just search). For example, Configure Commonly Used IP ACLs: