Your sound-card does it. Just open the volume control applet, and move "Line in" channel top the top (you might need to enable the channel configuration slide so it's not hidden). Also try opening console (gnome terminal), and launch there: 

Here's another receipt how to choose which of the 2 available cards will the next launched application use. Add these lines to /etc/asound.conf: 

You may have added your virtual hosts to or something like this, and the file was overwritten on update (you were prompted!). Check if you still have your virtual hosts in (one host per file) and that have valid resolvable symlinks in : this is the right way to add them in Ubuntu (I believe, in all Unix systems that's common: a great idea to have them separate rather than piling in a single file!). 

to switch to the second card. Replace all '1's with '0's to switch back. A small script will be handy :) NOTE: In this manual we created several new Alsa devices: 'this', 'card0-hw', 'card0', 'card1-hw', 'card1'. You can refer to them: 

Copy URL from spreadsheet Paste URL into google chrome address bar Run image search on resulting webpage -If image 'You have been pwned!' is detected mark cell red on spreadsheet and move onto next URL -If image 'You haven't been pwned' is detected - move onto next URL 

AutoHotKey is the answer to your problem. With it you can create a script to automate your mouse and keyboard movements. You can have all of your URLs on a spreadsheet, and have AutoHotKey copy/paste the URLs into the address bar for you. You can even program it to do an 'image search' between every URL and perform a further action based on the results it finds. So if the web result says 'You Have Been Pwned!' you can have AutoHotKey detect that image on the screen (using the image_search function), go back to your spreadsheet, highlight the cell red, and then move onto the next URL. A piece of software that will prove itself very powerful for your purposes. You just need to do some minor research to understand the basic commands required to make the script work. So the workflow would be the following: 

I want to access my other computer (mac osx) which on the other place. The simples solution is maybe like using teamviewer and logmein, but in this case i want to remote using command line /terminal. The problem teamviewer and logmein don't support terminal session. The remote computer (the computer that i want to connect to) is using dynamic IP and i don't have access to the router connected to that computer. I got some resource , that i can use dynamic dns services like dynu,no-ip etc, but most of these services need me to alter some setting in the router (for example doing port forwarding etc). The fact i don't have access to the router. Or am i missing something ? Any solution ? 

I'm not an IT guy, i'm just home user which know a bit about networking. I'm trying to learn how the connection (LAN) is built in outer side of my home LAN. Here's the diagram : 

The answer to your question is that unfortunately this is not possible in Firefox. There are however some other distributions of Firefox such as WaterFox, PaleMoon and a few others. Some are tailored towards privacy and others towards added functionality and optimisation. Have a read here to see what the alternatives are. You may have better luck using a different browser but you cannot do what you're trying to do using Firefox itself. 

Every single command in your autohotkey script can have as much delay as you want using the 'Sleep' command between lines. So 'Sleep, 1000' would instruct the script to not do anything for 1 second before moving onto the next command in the script. 

The solution to your problem is AutoHotkey With it you can write a script that does all the hard work for you. Mapping the actions required to 'right-click > copy link address' to a single key on the keyboard. To right-click with the keyboard you must press Shift+F10. This keyboard shortcut does not interfere with any default chrome shortcuts so you're safe to use it within your script. The following script will copy link address automatically when you click your media file and press F1 on your keyboard (you're free to change it to any key you like) Step 1 - Download and install AutoHotKey Step 2 - Right click on your desktop > New AutoHotKey script Step 3 - Open the AHK file in Notepad and paste in the following script: 

First, create another user account, log in and test if keymap works there. If yes, then the problem is in your private configs. That will localize the problem whether it's system-wide (/etc, /usr/share/kde*) or user (~). Next, open keyboard preferences, change something, and close it: you'll have some default configuration in the new home folder. After backing up your personal folder, try to move these files: that can help. 

Now, restart X. Yeehaw, enjoy having the tilde key on the correct place :) This command can also help: 

We want to have 'Speaker' with index=0. Add these lines to to make USB Speaker the default device, if present: 

It's really easy: you should have searched VBox's manuals for "shared". The solution is to open Windows "console" via "cmd.exe" and type there: In a Linux guest, use the following command: 

Unplug everything and check if it beeps (no CPU should make it puzzled :) ). If not, it's likely a MB issue. Then put the CPU back in, check beeping. If not, it still can be a MB issue. To prove that, try another CPU. Now put the video card back in. Check. Then RAM. Check. try moving the RAM around, try inserting one module in different slots. 

The last 2 nodes above (isp and internet) is the WAN. From my PC i connect to the router and see the configuration (router administration page), i can see that the router got external-ip: 192.168.71.19 (255.255.255.0) and gateway: 192.168.71.1 (255.255.255.0). So Logically like this : 

I have a windows 10 pc and a mac. This pc has wifi adapter and ethernet. The ethernet is connected (wired) to my router and the wifi is also connected to router at the same time. My mac is also connected to the router wirelessly (the same wifi that windows is connnected to). Now i turn on file sharing in mac using smb and set the same workgroup as in windows. The problem is this is working ( i can see my mac from windows) only if in windows, i disable the ethernet first, while still keeping the wifi on. If i turn on (enable) the ethernet, the mac won't show up in windows. How can i set up this ethernet so i don't have to enable/disable it ? 

This plays music on the server, but displays GUI on the client ;) "-X" stands for "X session forwarding". Also try "-C" to compress the data, and "-fnN": this makes go background after it asks for password. 

I had such an issue: too long USB cable was the case. Later it came out again, and I've changed my pen-drive: it was a hardware issue :) Check if your USB port is in good state, and check whether its connectors to the motherboard are okay and sit tight. 

What GUI tools do you advise to improve the usability of Linux for those accustomed to doing system administration the windows-way? Users new to Linux often get confused when they need to configure something: editing a text configuration file may seem hard to them, and they want a GUI to tick checkboxes and just get what they want. A short list includes: hardware issues, drivers, Xorg (especially!), performance, network settings, sharing, user accounts, etc. P.S. I've looked through questions already asked here, and found that there's no real centralized list of applications. Let's unite our knowledge! Community Wiki ;) 

MPEG Streamclip can merge all chapters in a loaded DVD and export it to MOV/MP4 file. It is free and is still widely used within the video post production industry so you can trust it to be a good shot at trying to rip your DVD. After your DVD is inserted, simply click on 'File > Open DVD' and you will be given options if you want to export specific chapters or the whole thing. It can also load individual VOB files for conversion if you wish. You won't be able to output to MKV but you can still make a high quality MOV out of it and then convert that to MKV if you need. 

If the computer you're logging into has 2 monitors then just log into the computer with Tight VNC two times and have the scroller bar for each VNC window positioned how you prefer. 

Try holding down the power button for a long period of time until you hear a loud long beep come from the machine. This will force machine to 'hard' boot up and perform hardware checks as it does so. 

I'm trying to solve the 'XX'. It maybe a public IP or maybe another level of NAT before it reaches the public IP. I believe this XX is firewalled or forbidden by the ISP . I can't use traceroute, it will return nothing but '*'. My big question, how is the structure inside the XX (logical network diagram) ? i mean at least the typical setup , not specific to my isp. i guess the cable modem should connect to other router/switch but the weird thing i tried in app like 'cisco packet tracer', i'm not allowed to connect that cable modem to any router/switch. Anyone know what type of physical device should it connected to ? The main goal, it's just for fun that i'm learning this. I'm trying to create a simulation of node by node from my host until it reach the internet. i'm using network simulation app, in this case i'm using cisco packet tracer to create every element that possible to built connection start from my local LAN (home) to the internal structure inside ISP until it reach the internet. Right now i'm stuck at cable modem point, i have no clue how to built the rest of the structure.