By the way, you can inspect your current bindings with the command (by default, bound to Prefix?, or via Prefix:list-keys, or (e.g.) in a shell). You could use the output of to determine the original binding of Prefixo. 

† I ended up browsing through the source code to find that is interpreted strictly after all other sequences (including ). It looks like this has always been the case since was introduced. 

To open the file without converting its encoding, you will need find a way to specify the file’s encoding to whatever program is opening it. You will want to avoid double-clicking on the file and instead directly use the Open… menu item (usually ⌘O or Open… under the File menu) of the application you want to use to view/edit the file. If the application is capable of reading files in other encodings, it will probably let you specify the encoding in the Open… dialog (similarly, they should let you specify a (possibly different) encoding when using Save As…). For example, TextEdit has drop down list for “Plain Text Encoding” at the bottom of the Open… dialog. If ISO 8859-5 is not listed you may need to select “Customize Encodings List…” to add it to the list. You may want “Cyrillic (ISO 8859-5)”, “Cyrillic (Windows)”, “Cyrillic (KOI8-R)”, or something else (use 8859-5 if you are sure that is the encoding, otherwise I am not sure if the code point assignments of the other Cyrillic encodings are at all similar). Terminal normally expects UTF-8 encoded characters, so you should transcode the data to UTF-8 if you just want to “cat” the file. 

Check out the man page for all the variations that “target-pane” supports ( above means pane 1 of window 0 of the session named “s”) and the list of all the other “format” variables (the bits). 

How about using (to quote any possibly funky characters) on the result of (to expand the , before it is quoted). 

If you are using in (or ), you can specify a maximum length for the used output of the command by putting a number between the and the : 

This is the same as when you need to send a C-b to any program running inside a tmux session. If you wanted to send C-b to your normal shell (e.g. because your shell is using Emacs-style editing where C-b is (and you dislike using the arrow keys)) you would need to use C-b C-b to get a single C-b to the shell. 

Download and install RCDefaultApp. In the Default Apps preference pane (now available in the System Preferences application), select the Extensions tab. From the list of extensions, select mp3. Either 

The other “alerts” (content monitoring and the bell) have their own display options (replace with or in the option name). 

Adjust for the path to whatever shell you happen to be using. screen Configuration Missing or reset environment variables could also be due to and commands in a screen configuration file. You will have to check both the .screenrc in your home directory and whichever file your compilation of screen is using as the ‘system screenrc’ (you might try a command like to find the pathname that was configured at compile time–it is usually /etc/screenrc for a system-installed screen; add-on installations will probably use some other pathname). You can use to temporarily avoid these settings files, but there is a compile-time option that prevents the effective use of SYSSCREENRC (presumably so that system administrators can force some bit of initial configuration). Duplicate Settings When Using screen It is fairly common to add items to an environment variable like PATH in a shell's configuration file(s) so that the updated value is available to normal shell sessions (e.g. xterm or other terminal windows, console sessions, etc.). If such items are added in a shell's per-shell configuration (or, if you are using the setting described above, in the shells per-login configuration) then the shell started by screen will likely have multiple copies of the added items. One strategy to avoid this is to put all additions to variables like PATH in the per-login configuration of your shell and avoid using the shell setting with screen. Another strategy is to only conditionally add the new items to the variable. Depending on the shell, the code to do this can be a bit complicated, but it can usually be encapsulated in a shell function for easy use. Yet another strategy is to always start with a fixed value in your configuration files. This can sometimes cause problems when moving your configuration files from system to system when the default values might vary significantly. Diagnostics If you can not directly spot where a particular modification is happening, you can try the following to track down where the change is happening. Check the current value in your initial shell: 

When the dialog appears, type one of 0-7 to select a label, then hit Return to apply it to the items selected in Finder. 

If you were only using as a simplified placeholder command and you actually intend to spawn some type of interactive command in your windows/panes, then you should probably just spawn the command you intended to eventually run. If your intended command takes too long to startup to use it during tmux testing, then substitute a shell or other simple interactive command (e.g. , , etc.). Is the Default Command Second, running tmux without a command argument (e.g. ) is equivalent to using the command (i.e. is the same as ). Your creates a session for its windows/panes ( is an alias for ) and another session is being created for the implicit command specified by starting tmux without a command argument. If you are using the default status bar, you will see a in the left side of the status bar when you are in the “extra” session (the initial session created in the is number 0). If you want to avoid creating the extra session, then use instead of plain . The commands from your will run, creating session 0, and then your client will attach to that session instead of creating a new one. 

Summary: avoids the “file has changed since editing started” prompt and lets you decide when you want to modify the file in working tree. 

Here is my updated version of the script (including attribution to the original source, as I found it a couple of years ago). The main change in functionality is that it will handle pathnames that include characters that are not encoded identically between MacRoman and UTF-8 (anything outside ASCII). 

Try checking for non-visible characters in your file. I am able to reproduce your symptoms when the lines end with a CR (i.e. DOS/Windows-style line endings). If you use Vim to edit, check the with . If it is set to , then you can fix the file with this command: 

The best place for the these commands is your (though for slightly different reasons than for the command above). These commands cover normal mode, the visual and select modes, insert mode, command mode, and operator-pending mode. This approach means that both pressing ⌘F and selecting the menu item will start a -based search (i.e. the mode indicated by the cursor just after in the command line area instead of using the GUI-based ). 

but this pair (and thus also pulling with both a remote and a branch specified) is usually not as nice since it does not update the remote-tracking branches (). The remote+branch invocations of fetch and pull are useful for one-off merges from repositories for which you do not particularly want to keep a full set of remote-tracking branches (i.e. fetching/pulling a merge request from a minor/rare contributor). 

The argument passed to the program will be treated in a manner similar to an ANSI C string. If you want an actual backslash in the string you will have to escape it as , instead. So, if you really want the literal-string quoting that single quotes give you, you should probably stick with an embedded newline so that you do not have to worry about extra escaping. 

If you do not always want all your sessions to have “gapless” window numbers, then you can use (the option is also new to *tmux 1.7) to renumber the windows in just the current session (or some other session if you use the option). 

If, in addition, you are not getting your normal environment (PATH, shell settings, etc.) in the shells created inside screen, you might need to tell screen to create “login” shells. Put in your on the remote ends, or add to your screen invocation: 

† When the buffer represents an index stage of the file instead of the file from the working tree, reads from the contents of the file as it exists on disk in the working tree instead of stage 0 of the index. 

If the new column is going to have the same value on each line (i.e. your initial yank was on a single line), then is probably just easier to visually block select the space between the username and password column and type (or ) to start appending (inserting). When you return to normal mode (), Vim will append the text to the rest of the original selection, too. If you really need to do a repeating pattern, then you could use a function and mapping like this: 

If you have an active ssh-agent that has your key loaded, then the problem is likely that ssh is offering that key first. Unfuddle probably accepts it for authentication (e.g. in sshd) but rejects it for authorization to access the company repositories (e.g. in whatever internal software they use for authorization, possibly something akin to Gitolite). Perhaps there is a way to add your personal key to the company account (multiple people are not sharing the same public and private key files, are they?). 

Note: The tmux server will automatically exit when it has no sessions, so unless you create a session (either in your , or , or via another command included in the command), then the server will exit just after the above command finished. 

Now, to explain the bit about “backtracking”. Consider you have a line that does have eight pipe characters on it: 

If you select <disabled>, you will be unable to automatically open files in the normal ways (e.g. double-clicking on it in Finder), but you will still have the Open With submenu in Finder’s contextual menu for file items. If you select some other application, it will automatically open files when you download them with Safari, but you may prefer the on-open behavior of QuickTime Player (or some other application) to that of iTunes. 

The default configuration is not available as a normal configuration file; it is part of the source code (thus built into the compiled program). You can examine parts of the configuration with the commands and : 

† I do not have lynx at hand, but Control-R seems to be the reload key based on my search for “lynx reload” (i.e. “Reloading files and refreshing the display” of the user guide). ‡ Besides , there are other ways of specifying the target pane (search for “target-pane” in the tmux man page): 

The list of formats for property lists is not extensible. The list is defined in the NSPropertyListFormat type/enumeration found in the from the Foundation framework (equivalently, CFPropertyListFormat found in from Core Foundation). 

If you want to disable the repeat for the current session, then type your prefix, a colon, and enter this command: 

Merlin Mann's article is an elaboration of John Gruber's article. Gruber's article does include an online backup component: Dropbox. It sounds like you already have some of what Merlin Mann was emphasizing: 

The level is the (default) lowest level for which syslogd will store most messages. A message generated like this will show up in Console’s built-in “All Messsages” database search (the file in technically limits it to message where the Facility field “contains” the empty string, but this condition is trivially satisfied by any Facility value). If you want your message to appear in Console’s built-in “Console Messages” database search, then you must be a bit more specific. It only shows (stored) messages that have a Facility field that equals (see the file in ). You can generate such messages with syslog by the option to set the Facility field.