I can't speak to Option 43 being ignored but can you put in a DNS entry for CISCO-CAPWAP-CONTROLLER.domain-given-by-dhcp and point it at 10.19.3.209? That should let them unicast to the controller. 

I'm fairly certain that when the router forwards the DHCP request it includes only the primary network configured on the interface. I don't believe there's any way to have it use the secondary network. Edit: I did some Googling and determined what others have already pointed out, there's a feature called smart-relay that can use the secondary network, but only after the primary times out three times. The relevant quote from Understanding and Troubleshooting DHCP in Catalyst Switch or Enterprise Networks - Cisco Systems 

A very quick (and therefore incomplete) answer: Assuming all of the inside stuff is on the same subnet the ICMP messages are switch2 saying "I don't need to be involved in this, talk to the firewall directly". What I've usually done for these situations is set up a transit subnet between the inside router (switch2) and the firewall so that switch2 can route to something that's not on the internal subnet. It also gives you a choke point where you can monitor and control traffic leaving your internal network. I wouldn't recommend static routes on servers in this situation. It's just a pain to manage and adds unneeded complication. 

To my knowledge (which is not advanced) directionality is generally a function of the antenna so I suppose that you could use separate transmit and receive antennas such that one could be directional and the other omnidirectional. Another alternative would be beamforming, which is a signal-processing technique that seems to be simulating directionality in software. 

here you fail in many of the problems 1- you configured DHCP pool contain same range in router 450 and router 250 (10.0.0.0/24 and 10.0.0.0/8) which will result in iP conflict 2- essentially , the networks which you configured as a DHCP pools already used as inter connect between routers , DHCP regularly used for a client or hosts behind the router (which will be sure in networks other than the networks used in conecting routers to each other) 3- just for the information if you aim to use router 450 as a DHCP server for clients behind other routers just use the under the interface used as a GW for your client network 

you can use some sort of of small business call agent (i.e. Cisco call manager express CME) in both sides which can handle Voip calls over WAN and local,mobile and international calls through PSTN and if you want to obtain small call center it has call center express as well but it is licensed feature. you also can use open source call agent like Asterisk and register those GW on it if you don't want to bay any equipment other that your IP phones you can join ISP which can run telephone service on it , which is called ITSP, ITSP will handle all VOIP feature you need (i.e. dial peers , route patterns , conferences , auto attendance and so on) please check this link VOIP INFO 

route add X.X.X.X mask Y.Y.Y.Y Z1.Z1.Z1.Z1 metric 10 route add X.X.X.X mask Y.Y.Y.Y Z2.Z2.Z2.Z2 metric 20 wher Xs are your lan ip range and Ys are the mask and Z1s are the primary GW and Z2s are the secondry one 

Both have VSAT options that involve a lot of "spoofing" similar to what Riverbed does on the WAN. They'll terminate the TCP connection at the earth-terminal on each end to make the client think things are faster than they are. 

We generally don't do it because of the messiness and lack of security. One VLAN = one subnet is easier to document and easier to troubleshoot and there's usually not a good reason to complicate things. The only reason I can think of to do it is company mergers or network upgrades and for both of those I'd prefer it to be temporary. Edit to clarify, for the hosts on different subnets but the same VLAN to talk directly you'd need to either make them their own default gateway or add a route to the "other" subnet that connects it to the interface. In the gateway case if the host IP was 10.1.1.2 then the gateway would also be 10.1.1.2. This will cause the host to ARP for everything on or off it's subnet. This would allow it to talk to the second subnet on that VLAN but the only way it'll be able to talk to anything else is if there's a router/firewall running proxy arp that can help it out. In the route out the interface case you'd add something like "route add -net 192.56.76.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 eth0" to the device and then 10.1.1.2 will ARP directly on eth0 when it wants to reach 192.56.76.*. 

No. The native VLAN on a trunk means that: A) Any untagged frame arriving on the trunk will be treated as being in the native VLAN (regardless of what VLAN it was in on the sending switch). B) Frames on the native VLAN will cross the trunk untagged. In your example a frame arriving on the default VLAN (VLAN 1) will be forwarded out the trunk port on VLAN 1. Since VLAN 2 is the native VLAN that means the frame on VLAN 1 will be tagged. The only way a layer-2 switch will ever move a frame from one VLAN to another is if something is misconfigured. You could misconfigure it intentionally but in my opinion it would still be wrong. 

SPF calculations occur at the interval set by the timers throttle spf command. The wait interval indicates the amount of time to wait until the next SPF calculation occurs. just tune those timers to force OSPF recalculate Have a look at this link on how to change it. OSPF throttle tune and for very useful TS command OSPF TS 

when you speak about you actually speak about fail over on the level of services you need to be accessed in your site via internet . and when you speak about BGP you actually speak about fail over on the level of WAN connectivity . any way you must get that 

so for me running dynamic routing protocol over two ISPs is better than use DDNS , because the only thing you will bay is equipment able to run BGP but it will be once and for all instead of monthly fees for internet and DDNS hosting. and also connection is more secured and link speed and quality will be better than 

first of all you need to know that using port channel mean you will maximum obtain one physical link speed (1G) per flow where flow means same source port and same destination port, so if you generate 2 traffic flow you will obtain speed of two physical link and so on . Versification there are two verification methods 1. from cisco side "show port-channel summary" if port-channel working probably you should see GigabitEthernet1/0/9 (p) GigabitEthernet1/0/10 (p) GigabitEthernet1/0/11 (p) GigabitEthernet1/0/12(p) , if it work probably go to next step 2. use the very helpful tool called Jperf which is setup as server as a client and can generat 1 flow or multiple flow , if you could setup it probably generate 1 flow and monitor the traffic digrame and then generate 2 or more flows and monitor , you should realize that your BW is more than 1G 

There's really no reason not to put multiple subnets on the same VLAN, but there's also probably no reason to do it. Pro: 

On IOS you can enter control-v to escape the next character. This lets you enter a question mark without pulling up help. Don't if that works on ASA but might be worth a try. 

I think the answer is that switches don't care about VLANs in other switches. The boundaries created by a VLAN only apply on that switch. In this case it sounds like an access port on VLAN 10 in the core switch is plugged into an access port in either VLAN 20 or 30 in the switch with the ACE. Since they're access ports there's no tagging and while I would consider that a misconfiguration and "wrong" it will work just fine as a way to bridge VLAN 10 and the other VLAN. Since VLANs 20 and 30 are bridged explicitly by the ACE that makes all three VLANs into one broadcast domain. You might think of the VLANs as ethernet hubs. Each VLAN is a hub, a broadcast domain. The bridge statement in the ACE connects the 20 and 30 "hub" and turns them into one domain so they can see each other. There is obviously something connecting 10 into the one of the others as well but there isn't enough info to know what. Probably it's an access port with each end in a different VLAN or it's a trunk port with "mismatched" default VLAN. Bonus info because hubs aren't common anymore: In the olden days people used hubs for ethernet connections (when they weren't hiding from dinosaurs). Computers were plugged into hubs and each hub was a broadcast domain (and a collision domain but we're not going there). VLANs didn't exist so each hub was it's own domain and computers plugged into hub 20 couldn't see other computers that were plugged into hub 30 unless the two hubs were connected by running a cable between them (a crossover cable because MDIX didn't exist yet). 

make use the next design approach 1. Avoid interference on same channel, this should be handled by your controller as shown in the next figure for 2.4 range of frequency and for 5 G range of frequency and as you can figure out controller manage channels and AP power , so you will have no problem in setup access point any where with no fear of interference for interference with other access point or any other 802.11 radio device , cisco provide great feature called cleanair ,which is acting as Proactive Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) Protection 

QOS is something you will configure to treat some traffic (VOIP traffic) with priority better than other (WWW, monitoring ...), even call signaling can be treated with less priority than the VOIP payload itself. implementation could be divided in two parts, internally: between phones inside same network, which in your case is not needed at all, I can figure out it is 1G end nodes with 10G uplinks which is more than enough. externally: in case of multi-site implementation where the VOIP traffic will traverse WAN connection with other normal data traffic. in this case you need to configure QOS as per a lot of recommendations and calculations (number of concurrent calls, the Codx you use in this calls). Also need to be mentioned that, 

entry width note depend only on the width of IPs but also on the lookup mechanism used to find specific entry and the compression mechanism used to compress those information in one table entry , an examble for TCAM entry produced by multi access list entries