I would expect it needs the < to tell it to set the config value to the contents of the file instead of to the actual string (which obviously isn't a valid SSL certificate). 

It's defragmentation, and there's no way round it. When an HFS+ drive is nearly full, it has to constantly move blocks around to keep contiguous free space. Defragmentation tools are available, but I doubt they'll help much. You should consider 90% usage as effectively full on an HFS+ volume. 

AWS Glacier will charge you $0.01 per month per GB, so $150 per month for 15TB. You'll also have to pay some data transfer and retrieval costs to access the data. 

I successfully installed a new package in Homebrew after upgrading to High Sierra, and the package is working. I had to upgrade Xcode first. 

You can use a TOTP-compliant app that will share your logins across multiple devices, such as Authy or 1Password and store them in the cloud. Of course, that's also a bit less secure, since it gives you another way that your logins can leak. I personally use Authy to share my two-factor logins across four different devices. 

The MySQL client library overrides localhost to use a Unix socket instead of a TCP/IP connection to 127.0.0.1. If you can connect to localhost but not 127.0.0.1, that suggests that it's either firewalled or not listening on 127.0.0.1. 

Will it decrease your speed? Yes. Will it decrease your speed noticeably? No. Local network connections and routing are fast enough that they won't add a significant overhead. 

It's a preview, not the final version. They may very well not have finished all of the power management functionality yet -- it's just the kind of thing you can leave out of a preview, since it doesn't affect the user interaction. If you want software that is polished and works well, don't install test or preview versions. 

There are various websites and applications that will do the calculation for you, such as $URL$ Otherwise, use the netmask to calculate the size of the subnet (2 to the power of the number of zero bits in the netmask). Find the highest IP address that's an exact multiple of the subnet size but is lower than the router's IP address. That IP address is the network address, and the IP address plus the subnet size minus 1 is the broadcast address. 

Uncompressed and lossless are not the same. Some compression formats are lossy (for images, the most common one is JPEG) and others are not (the compression methods used by GIF, PNG and TIFF images, for example). You can use BMP images to prevent loss of quality, but you can also use PNGs and save your disk space. 

Because a 20-character palindromic password is only as secure as a 10-character password -- there's essentially no extra entropy in the last 10 characters. So you're getting a false sense of security from having a long password. 

The operating system can't necessarily tell the physical substrate of a storage device that's connected to it, so it refers to them all as "hard disk drive" because if it said "block-structured data storage device" it would confuse people and take up too much space. If your laptop is supposed to have an SSD, it's 99% likely that you do in fact have an SSD. 

You're talking about the difference between a hub and a switch. With an Ethernet hub, all of the traffic is sent to every port, and so the total available bandwidth is shared between every port. Switches detect which port needs to receive traffic and only send it to that port, so the bandwidth is per port. Your router is probably a switch rather than a hub, meaning that you can have 1GBps on A-B and C-D at the same time. 

It's neither, because no one can make something that's exactly 18.5" or 19" across. The "correct" answer will vary from monitor to monitor, change continually, run to dozens of digits, and be impossible to measure. To how many significant figures do you want an approximate answer? To two significant figures, I expect it's 19". To three significant figures, I expect it's 18.5". 

I'm using Excel 2016 on MacOS High Sierra. I'm based in the UK, and so my global default currency symbol is £. I'm creating a new workbook with forecasts for a European operation, so in that workbook I want the default currency symbol to be €, so that I don't have to change all the cell formats manually. Is there any way to do this for just one workbook? 

Yes, you'll need twice the space. If that's not acceptable, then you'll have to look for a backup solution a little more sophisticated than rsync, that will do proper differential backups and only store data twice if it's actually been modified. 

It's not possible, unless the hackers know of a very serious zero-day bug in GPG. However, if they keep the files for a few decades, it's possible that future computer hardware might eventually enable decryption -- only you know if that would be a concern for you. 

The "Remote Disc" item in the sidebar is always there for use in connecting to an optical drive on another Mac that's configured for drive sharing, even when you're not actually connected to such a drive. You can remove it from the sidebar in Finder Preferences/Sidebar and turn off "CDs, DVDs, and iPods". I don't know any way to remove it from your top-level display in Finder itself. 

=text(A1, "<your number format>") & text(B1, "<your number format>") & text(C1, "<your number format>") 

Yes, root can delete any file regardless of its permissions. Anyone who can't be trusted with that privilege should not be given root access. 

It's too complicated to issue delta releases (which is the generally-used term for what you're asking for) as well as whole packages. You would have to release the whole package as well, so every delta release is additional effort. And you would have to test the additional release(s) on every supported platform, which for Firefox is a lot of tests, And if users have modified the package in any way, a delta release may break in exciting and unanticipated ways. And people will complain if they want to go from version 40 to version 44 and they have to either download the whole package or download four different delta releases, so you would end up having to do 43 different delta releases when you release version 44 of your program, one from each previous version. 

Your assumption is incorrect. The option tells dig to query the SOA servers for each domain; that's not its normal behaviour. A normal DNS lookup will use your configured DNS server, such as a public recursive DNS server, for all of its lookups. You can't stop using name servers unless you're prepared to use IP addresses only. But you can run your own recursive name server, possibly on the same machine as your client software, in which case you can stop using public recursive name servers. 

You're thinking like a programmer, not like a hardware engineer. If data stored on disk is just 1s and 0s, then when a 1 gets changed to a 0 then it's irrecoverable. But actual physical disks are more complicated than that, and when a 1 gets changed to a 0 there may be some traces left behind. In practice, it's not worth worrying about unless you need to protect your erased data against someone with the resources of the NSA -- but some people do have this requirement, or at least they think they do. 

Usual problem. The content creators will switch when all the users have switched, and the users will switch when all the content creators have switched. 

No, you can't do this in EC2. You can only assign an Elastic IP address to one instance at once. Building an Anycast network needs a degree of control over your netblocks and BGP routing tables that you can't get in EC2. You could use Amazon's CloudFront CDN instead of building your own, of course. Or you could use their Route53 latency-based DNS aliases to do something similar at the DNS level instead of at the IP level. 

If the server is EBS-backed, you can stop it and then mount its root volume as a filesystem on a different AWS instance in the same AZ that you have root access to, and use that instance to edit the ssh keys. If you need instructions more detailed than that, then you need to pay someone with decent Unix sysadmin and AWS experience to do it for you. If the server is instance-store, then you're going to need to raise a support ticket with AWS support. I don't know any way to get into an instance-store instance in the situation that you describe. If it's just the data that you need, and the data is on an EBS volume, then you can mount that volume on a different instance as above. 

What happened was that you were plugged into the wrong port and there was no DHCP server available on the network, and so your device used a self-assigned link-local IP address as defined in RFC3927. 

The simplest way is usually to do and see what the default gateway is set to -- 99.9% of the time, that will be your access point's IP address. And it works on Linux, OS X or Windows. 

Yes, the market has anticipated your need and you can buy an uninterruptible power supply unit for your PC. 

The maximum would be 4,294,967,294 IP addresses (assuming you're talking about IPV4, you have enough RAM, and we take out one for the broadcast address and one for the network address). 

Your computer has a subnet mask as well as an IP address. Your networking software uses the subnet mask to determine if an IP address is on your local subnet (and so can be contacted directly) or is on another network (and so must be contacted via your default gateway). If you change your IP address so that a Google server is in the same subnet as your computer, as defined by the subnet mask, then you won't be able to communicate with that Google server. 

Dynamic DNS is probably your best option. Register a domain, and set up a host name within the domain to update its DNS record whenever your IP address changes. Then you can always connect to your server using that host hame. 

On old CRT displays, you could in theory have any resolution up to the maximum possible on that device. But on LCDs the pixels are physical objects, and any LCD panel has a native resolution that is actually the only possible resolution for that device. Other resolutions are either exact divisors of the physical resolution (e.g. a 2048x1536 panel could display a resolution of 1024x768) or they require interpolation and aliasing that will make the image less sharp. Check the Wikipedia article on display resolution for much more information. 

Yes, you can lock the cells containing the formulae and then protect the worksheet and set a password to unprotect it. The protection options allow you to disable editing (or even selecting) of locked cells. 

No one can answer that question -- it depends if there are any bugs in the software on your router. You certainly can't rely on it being secure, as any software can have exploitable bugs. Using NAT gives you no protection against attacks aimed at the router itself, only against attacks aimed at your machine(s) behind the router. 

If it was , you're probably OK. That won't delete directories, and there shouldn't be any important files in the root directory. There are three symlinks you should probably recreate, though -- var for private/var, tmp for private/tmp and etc for private/etc.