Odd that Neither Newegg nor Geeks.com have any crossfire motherboards at all... however... Ascendtech has 4 boards for under $100 that support both AM3 and crossfire... albeit hybrid crossfire. Start with that. Why Ascendtech? Because they purchase parts from other computer manufacturers, and thus they have parts that other places either stopped carrying and/or have discontinued. There are a couple of other companies out there that are just like Ascendtech and you can find them through Pricewatch. I'm currently using an AMD Athlon X2 64 6400+ (dual core 3.2ghz) that uses 125 watts on a Biostar TA770 A2+ board. It's a workhorse for handling tasks I don't want to do on the main machine. Now, if you read the CPU support list for it there, nothing greater than 95 watts is supposed to be supported. But at the time I paired the processor with the board, AMD recommended that board for that processor, AND that page said it supported 125 watt processors. The current trend now for multiple manufacturers is to reduce the supported processor listings to 95 watt processors and below. The Asus m4a78 am2+ boards would support 125 watt processors, the m4a785 series (like the M4a785 htpc) also supports 125 watt processors, but nothing above hybrid crossfire in the bunch. I think digging through Pricewatch will end up being your best bet. 

(image from Makeuseof.com) ... there is a physical difference between the two sticks, in the placement of the notch in the stick, and thus the placement of the pins that touch the contacts. Examining the top-down image of the board, you can clearly see where the notch would go in the Ram slots, so it isn't like there isn't a notch there. You can't physically put a DDR2 stick in either of those slots for the board you mention. 

(I assume you mean Option 2, not 3)... ... these things tell me that you installed a Fresh copy of Windows 7 instead of the Toshiba recovery or recovering from a backup... which means that your new installation would not use the SLIC loader anymore because it isn't there... which means whenever you attempt to boot with it, the boot fails. So... the question becomes... how do you change the default action so that you don't try to boot with the SLIC loader. Try this. Choose option 2, and boot normally. Once in Windows 7, open the Control Panel, go to System and Security, and then to System. Click on the Advanced System Settings on the left. From the popup window, click the Advanced Tab, and go to the Startup and Recovery settings. Change which version of Windows 7 is the default. 

From what you detail, you already have far more than enough to handle these tasks... depending of course on what you actually mean. Again, the devil is in the details. There is a vast difference between editing HD video and non-HD video. There is a vast difference between editing pictures from your phone, and editing magazine quality publications. Assuming that you mean that you want to process photos for sending to Facebook and other social media sites, as well as make videos to send up to Youtube... I can't see any reason to upgrade your hardware. You've already got far more system than what most people would purchase in a laptop for exactly the same tasks. 

You would need what is termed an XGA Box, or a Video to XGA converter. This could convert the output from the gaming console, to the VGA input your monitor would accept. There are multiple different products out on the market, and a Google search for either "XGA Box" or "Video to XGA" converter will reveal many of them. At that point, it is just a matter of deciding which one you want to purchase. 

Ok. UTS is Universal Time Coordinated, or the same as Greenwich Mean time. Keep that in mind. EST or Eastern Standard Time, which is my time zone, is -5:00 from GMT... or UTC. So, if the only clock I could see with my eyes was set to GMT, I would have to subtract 5 hours from it to know what time it was for me. Still with me? Now, Linux and OSX see the BIOS clock of the computer they are installed on as UTC. Same thing as having the clock in the living room set to GMT. Linux and OSX maintain a conversion setting that the user sets at one point (stating what time zone they are in) so that they display the correct local time to the user. Windows is different. Windows sees the BIOS computer clock as the local time, without having to convert it. This is why your Windows clock was always wrong. After the Registry tweak, you still missed telling Windows to convert the clock to your correct local time with the right time zone setting. If you want Linux and Windows to play nice at this point, without the registry tweak AND with your Windows sleep function working properly like it is... you will have to change the time zone setting in Linux to assume GMT or UTC +-0. 

Of course, without the actual specifics... you know, like the make and model of your laptop so we can confirm that it actually does have an 802.11n card in it, all of this is speculation. For example, if you are using an Intel Centrino based product, you are limited to the B/G for an ad hoc network if you want to use the 2.4ghz band, and A if you want to use the 5ghz band. This does not mean that an AD Hoc Network can't be set up. For example, if you were using a Linksys Rangeplus Wireless-N USB apdater v2.0, in the hardware properties dialog you would find an option to enable ad hoc 802.11n support. It is disabled by default. You can check the hardware properties dialog of your network adapter to see if you also have this option, and if it is disabled by default. Enabling it may allow you to increase connection speeds. Of course, now you might be seeing why including more information is helpful. 

I believe you have not included enough pertinent information... partly because of what you have included, but mostly because of the misconception you start off with in your initial question. For example, I am under the impression that your H drive... or the hard drive that has gotten the letter designation of H from Windows when the drive was first connected... is an external hard drive, meaning it is connected to your computer by a USB cable. Why? Well, if it was a partition instead of an actual hard drive, it would have been given the letter designation of D or E or F. If your computer has two optical drives, and the second partition had not been partitioned at the time Windows was installed, then the primary partition would get the letter C, the two optical drives would get D and E, and once you formatted the second partition, it would get F. If the second partition was formatted before the installation of Windows, then it would have been given the letter designation of D. Now, if this is NOT the case, and the H drive is indeed a partition of a single hard drive... and your system is indeed set up where the C drive is only 10gb and the rest of a 500gb drive is on a partition now designated as H.. what you NEED to do is back up whatever data you want to keep to DVD or an external hard drive, obtain your factory recovery discs, and remove BOTH partitions, and then use your factory recovery discs to restore your system on a single partition that takes up the entire hard drive. That would mean you would end up with a 500gb C drive, with tons of space to store and download, and no low space warnings. 

According to this article at Microsoft Support, there is a program that can be run to uninstall XP. It is unlikely that your father intended to run it... in fact, it is unlikely that he ran it at all. More than likely it was run by some other process or program; an infection of some sort most likely. At any rate, MDMarra's advice is sound. See if... 

According to the specs for TFX12V PSUs, the smallest is a 180 watt unit. According to the specs for SFX12V PSUs, the smallest is a 160 watt unit. So, although your choice power supply comes with an adapter to fit it into the required power connection, it may not be powerful enough to power that particular board. EDIT Upon further examination of the tech specs doc (and re-reading your question), I find that this board does not have a Piezo speaker mounted to the board, but rather just a header to which you could connect one. Without having a stick of Ram in the unit, it would normally just produce a beep error code to indicate there was no Ram. You would not see anything on a connected monitor to accompany this. You would just hear a beep. You also say there is no memory installed. So, try installing a stick of Ram and powering the unit.