I am fairly sure I know how to install the 'main' certificate on load balanced servers (install on one, export, import to the others) but I'm not quite sure what to do about the intermediate certificate (the one you install using the certificates snap in in mmc) Do I manually install it using mmc on each server? or is there a similar process involved to the main cert (install, then export, then import on the others?) 

It would be fast enough (it only matters for startup because after that the OS is mostly running in memory), but moving the USB stick between PCs would violate the licence terms with Microsoft. An Operating System is licenced for the computer it runs on. If you are sticking the USB stick into other computers it is not licenced for those computers. It also may not run properly. 

Key: Yellow arrow: fan airflow direction, Orange arrow: GPU exhaust, Blue square: fan. I have a Geforce 580 gtx graphics card in my computer. A few months back I installed a fan on the front of my PC to improve airflow generally as the hard disks were getting too hot. This worked a treat: From my attached diagram you can see the airflow this creates in the case. Hdds run around 30°C The problem I have is that when my graphics card starts working hard, the way it is designed destroys this airflow. It brings in air from the bottom and blows it out the front and back. The air blown out of the back fights directly against the air blown in by the new fan. The red exclamation mark represents the problem area. This area gets very warm during heavy GPU workload. My hard disk temps creep up to between 40°C and 50°C. My temporary solution is to keep the side off the case. I have heard that this is not recommended but I assure you that it works in my case. With the case side on my graphics card fan runs at full speed and temps are around 90°C and hard disks near 50°C. With the case side off the graphics card is between 80°C and 86°C (still too high for my liking but below the 97°C maximum safe temperature rating for the card) and the hard disks around 40°C. Finally, my question: Do you think I should have the front fan pointing in the opposite direction? I think this will vent the hot air created by the graphcis card, but It probably eliminates the airflow through the entire case when the graphics card isn't working hard. 

Firstly, I have tried googling this but I can only get results for the phrase "Word cannot complete the save due to a file permission error" but the error I am getting is simply "Word cannot complete the save." and then it shows a file location at c:\users[user]\appdata\local\microsoft\windows\temporary internet files\content.mso\ and then a random filename... I have tried removing all of the temporary files in that location but it still happens. The opened files are on a network location. It has been happening since late december 2017. Edit: After removing the files from the Content.MSO folder, I tried saving multiple documents. When I received the error (it lists a file) I check that location with and it shows no files. (This command did show files before I removed them, so I know it should show files if they are there) 

I seem to remember windows 7 being able to remember search strings you've typed in the start menu's search bar. I tend to use that bar to run commands (because it's slightly more convenient than clicking on 'run' and typing your command there). One particular example of that is connecting to computers with mstsc command. I seem to remember on someone else's computer that it would bring up a list of recently typed mstsc commands (useful if you use this to connect to many different computers) when you would begin typing mstsc in the search bar. I know the run edit box has this feature but does the search bar also have it? All it seems to do on my current incarnation of W7 is search for items based on what you've typed so far. 

I have been trying to completely disable the offline files feature for all the W7 PCs on the domain that I manage. I have been unable to. I do not want this feature as it creates unwanted, largely unnecesary network traffic every time a computer logs in (and presumably - out?) I have tried setting the GPO settings (example - Synchronize all offline files when logging on - disabled, Synchronize all offline files before logging off - disabled, Allow or disallow use of offline files feature - disabled) in both Computer Configuration and User Configuration. But my W7 machines still happily sync files when they log on. I am wondering if this is because my domain functional level is 2003. Should it be 2008 for these settings to work on W7 machines? If not, any ideas why I can't get these settings to apply? (Other GPO settings work fine for the W7 machines) 

I am trying to simulate an intermittent ping timeout by adding the -w switch but it seems to be ignoring that switch. The host* I'm pinging typically replies around 108 ms so if I set /w to anything lower than that I would have thought I'd see timeouts, but no matter what I set it to, I get no timeouts. 

I had a user who would receive a message: I believe this was when saving docs, but the user didn't specify. I googled the issue and found a fix that described adding a registry key with a value of 1 in for the affected apps (Word, Excel). I applied this fix. Well now, after rebooting, the original problem doesn't occur but his documents now take much longer to save (the documents are not massive and the VPN is reasonably fast) Also, when he saves one open doc, any other open docs that have not been saved become unresponsive while the one he is saving saves. Is there a way to fix the original problem without creating the new problem? Or is there a way to fix the new problem on top of the fix for the old problem? 

I purchased a computer a month or two ago (core i7, 24gb ram, geforce gtx 590, windows 7 ultimate). Within the last week it began to bluescreen regularly. I tried lots of things (check hds, check memory, reinstall windows etc..) but it still bluescreened. At the time my temps were as follows... CPU - aprox 40/50c. GPU - arpox 60 idle, aprox 90 during heavy use. HDDs - aprox 55c after the PC had been on a while. I thought the 55c was ok, but I have since realized it was probably too high and may have been the direct cause of the bluescreening. I've installed a spare fan I had in the front of the PC blowing air in, (so there's airflow from front to back) Since then, obviously, all my temps are down. Especially the HDDs - three of them reach 30c and one has been up to 47c (it is some distance away from the airflow, in one of the 5.25inch drive bays) I haven't had the PC on for as long as it would normally take to bluescreen yet, but If it does I want to know what all the temps were right before the bluescreen. I have tried Everest but it only shows me realtime temps or gives me the ability to create one-off reports. I want something that can record all the temps to a file at 30 seconds intervals. If the computer bluescreens I can load it up again and check the last entry in the file. Side question: Am I right in thinking 55c was far too hot for a HDD? (It might have got higher than that before the bluescreens.. I don't know) Another side question: Is 47c too high? This is actually why I am asking the main question - I am concerned that this one drive that isn't getting the benefit of the extra fan may still cause the computer to bluescreen. 

A while ago I had a problem with my computer whereby it would not start properly. It was eventually determined that the problem was caused by the .vbs file extension association being changed to a text reader instead of wscript.exe, causing our company logon script not to run. I fixed this association and fixed the problem. But I can't remember how I managed to get into the computer in order to fix it. Anyway, it looks like the same problem has occured on another user's PC. If I shut down their computer you briefly see the logon script open in notepad - telling me that the system has tried to run it, but it has instead opened in notepad. I logged into the machine using the local Administrator account and found that the association is already correct, leading me to believe file associations are profile specific rather than machine specific? Is this true? And if so, how can I get into the broken profile in order to fix the association? 

I'm using 'copy' in a console window in Windows XP Pro (So I'm using DOS commands basically) I have files with three characters plus an extension and files with two chars plus an extension. I have the following in an ms-dos batch file... 

I have just installed Windows XP mode in Windows 7 Pro. When I try to update it it just sits looking for updates. I've left it there for at least two hours with no change. I have tried everything here - $URL$ I have tried using the update site again using IE8. It just stays on 'Checking for the latest updates for your computer' indefinitely. Is updating the OS supposed to work in XP Mode? 

Sometimes I need to make a config change on another user's PC. The user doesn't have admin rights so I try to start control panel using the runas command. I can start other stuff with the command but if I try to start control panel nothing happens. It doesn't even give me an error message. Alternatively I start another command prompt as admin (using the runas command again) and from that try to start control panel. Still no joy. Is control panel designed not to be startable from a non-admin profile as an admin user? 

Am I doing something wrong, or misunderstanding the situation? Or does this switch simply not work? *Replaced with www.google.com in the example, to avoid including the actual ip address and hostname that I'm using 

The presence of 08 initally suggests Server 2008 but I doubt that's correct. The server is relatively old and it currently has Server 2003 installed on it (not necesarrily the OS that it came installed with) I'm guessing 2003 but I just wanted to ask to make sure. As usual in cases like this Google is no help because it just interprets my '08' as '2008' and returns those results, or if I wrap in quote marks I get lots of not-very-easy-to-make-sense-of websites. 

When a drive is not detectable in Windows Explorer or Disk Manager (both hang for one drive, the other drive is simply not detected at all) are there other apps/software/commands at my disposal in Windows 10 or Ubuntu to make any progress with a seemingly bad drive? Elaboration below... My dad sent me a couple of 3.5" sata drives to see if I can fix them One of the drives doesn't audibly spin up, it just clicks. The Operating system (Windows 10) doesn't even seem to be aware of it (doesn't appear in file manager, and disk manager doesn't see it. I did rescan disks and nothing) The other, File Manager does 'see' it, but hangs indefinitely when I try to go any further. Disk management just hangs on 'connecting to virtual disk space' indefinitely (or until I physically unplug the drive) For both drives I am using an external caddy. I tried two of my own 3.5 inch drives in the same caddy and they work flawlessly so it's not the caddy. I have a PC running Ubuntu available if there's anything in Linux that might help. 

Please forgive me if this is the wrong stack exchange site. Please suggest which one I should post this to if it is. There's an automatic tape machine running in a remote location, with software (symantec backup exec 11d) Recently one of the servers being backed up had problems with its raid controller, so one of the drives has become invisible. I need to preserve the last good backup of that drive so I am trying to replace the tape with the most recent backup of that drive on it with one of the scratch tapes (blank tapes) present in the machine. I've tried the following... 

Apologies if this is the wrong place for hardware questions. I did look through the list of stack sites and this site seemed to be the best (Computer enthusiasts). 

We have a windows 2003 domain. All users have roaming profiles. We have a couple of users who, when they log into outlook, are asked for their password every time, despite selecting the 'remember my password' option. Our email is externally hosted exchange email. I've tried several fixes found on google such as deleting 'protect' folder in the user's profile, and deleting protect key in the registry but none work. I tried storing the password in windows' password/credentials manager, didn't work. It happens on any PC the users log into so it's not a machine specific problem. Any ideas? OS is Windows XP pro. Outlook is 2007. 

I got fed up of contorting myself to reach the back of my PC whenever I wanted to plug something in, so I bought a USB 3 hub so that it could be on my desk and I'd only have to reach over to it on my desk. The problem is, every time I turn my computer on, it is useless for data unless I unplug it and plug it back in (It provides power at all times though) Is there some trick to getting USB hubs to work in a way that is assumed to be logical? Edit: Since installing Windows 10 this problem has gone away. 

I think I finally figured out what was causing this. It's something that's been in place for a while but never used to be a problem. I have two PCs connected via a crossover cable. The main PC has a bunch of mapped network drives. If the second PC is not switched on, the main PC will show 'could not reconnect' on these drives. Now this never used to slow anything down, but I just deleted all these connections, and the black-screen delay has gone away completely. It seems like something has changed in the way windows tries to reconnect network drives... namely that it hijacks everything else and tries for a longer period before it decides it can't reconnect. Shame, because I liked having those connections. I'll try recreating them but without the 'reconnect at logon' check-box checked.