There's a few things you can do. Clean up old Software Unused Software You didn't mention what OS you're running, so I'll go with Raspbian. If you're not using libreoffice, wolfram, or scratch, removing them can save a lot of space. 

And what problem does the useless junk really entail? Configuration files are tiny, little things. Many are measured in bytes, and few are more than a couple KB. It might be annoying from a general principle kind of thing, but unless you're installing and uninstalling a huge amount of applications (that presents other issues) it's just not going to cause any kind of system issues. 

I wouldn't recommend touching anything in the boot area (other than ) unless you have a detailed understanding of what that stuff is doing. isn't designed to run things when the RPi starts. It's used to pass parameters to the Linux kernel on boot. I would suggest doing this all through SSH. A script on your desktop could push a bash/python/java/c/whatever program to the RPi, execute it, and then delete it when it's finished. Add threading to the script on your desktop and you can send it out to as many devices as you want all at the same time. 

In my opinion, Raspbian covers the first bullet really well. Looking at it from the command line, it's very similar to Ubuntu Server. Both are Debian based after all. From the second point... To put it nicely, the default Raspbian distribution is rather bloated. @Ghanima mentioned Arch, but for most people, that meets the second point, but widely misses the mark for point one. Some people love it, but a large percentage of people find it rather challenging. My recommendation is to use Raspbian Lite. Just looking at the image shows a much smaller size, and everything you want to install is just an call away. 

Is it possible for Raspberry pi to flash Noobs to any Android device? I have no device I am actively trying this on yet. If it is possible I a Nexus device running Android is what I would try to work with. I want more control over my Android. 

I want to get my 13 year old coding. I have a RPi3 I downloaded Retro pi so he could check it out. He went online and found all the cases that are out there for it. He wants one so he can build the retro pi game system. He will get board with the game system soon enough. My question is if we use the zero for Retro-pi and want to later add raspbian will we have enough RAM to do both or should I buy a different model to begin with? 

If I create a partion on my 32gig USB stick using rpi2 then format it to FAT32 allow me to then copy the SD card of the Rpi2 onto the USB stick? 

I bought my son a pi zero w. Originally we he wanted Retropi. Now he wants to stream Steam instead. I found information that said adding a graphics card to RPI 3 it is possible to stream some games. I have found no information referencing the pi zero at all. Does this mean it is not possible? 

I am running Raspbian jessie 8 on my RPi3. I am trying to see what version of samba is installed if any. I do not remember installing it as far as i know it is for remote access but I am not totally sure. It seems like when I update I see it updating but again i am not 100% sure. Can some one give me a hint on the command. I have already tried uname -a, smbd -v, and smbdstatus. 

I have never experienced this personally, but some networks block "common home server ports", such as 21 and 22. If they do, there's nothing you can do to enable those ports. Switching to a different port will usually solve this problem, even if it is a bit annoying. 

It seems safe to assume that you blew something in the board. If you're not getting any of the LEDs to turn on and it gets that hot, something somewhere is drastically wrong. 

As clarified in a tweet from the Foundation's official twitter account, both camera models are supported by the RPi zero. The only difference between the camera connectors is the form factor. No software changes are needed for compatibility. And any camera presently sold by the foundation will work for any model of RPi currently in production. Assuming you have the right ribbon cable. 

This wouldn't be particularly powerful. The chips used in the Raspberry Pi are old. Relatively ancient in the way high performance computers work. Sure you can have a dozen of the RPi's SOC chips, but is that really better than a couple Xeons? Combining processors doesn't equate to a super processor. If you have 1 processor that can do one unit of work per second, doesn't mean that having 2 of those processors will do the same job at two units of work per second. The problem has to be parallelizable. And at such a rate that you could spread the load over so many processors. This option really isn't that inexpensive. The compute modules are inexpensive, but unless you're ordering in huge quantities, they're nowhere near as cheap as the RPi. On top of that, you need to design and test your own PCB. Again, not cheap. You're going to loose a lot of processing power just trying to coordinate all those modules. With the number of modules you're talking about, I would be suprised if one processor did little else than dispatch jobs. 

I agree with MartinMarty in my experience using apache..the original file by default was /var/www/html. After downloading PHP I had to change the HTML to PHP. I did this by typing Sudo nano /var/www/php5 I then added some simple PHP code to show the date saved the file usomg control x Y Enter Then from the terminal I had to remove /var/www/HTMl I then type ls to verify it is gone revisit the ip address hit refresh and you should see the date and the file will be php I hope this helps..it worked for me 

I would check the voltage one the tutorial link posted. It is for a 12v strip. Yours says 24v? Raspberry pi 5v. Seems a bit inefficient to me. 

This question is unclear. What exactly do you want to know? I also started with zero knowledge of RPi 9 months ago so I understand being overwhelmed. However you are not giving enough information and asking to many vague questions to get any good answer. You need to tell us things such as what RPi you have and what operating system you have. I assume your not using the command line but a GUI. But assumptions help no one. These are just examples only the tip of the iceberg. If you do not have a basic understanding of the device you are using how can you expect to control it? I strongly suggest going to $URL$ click on help and then click on the documentation box. Start from the setup/quickstart tab and read every section of every tab finishing with hardware. Then visit the learning resource center. You mentioned something about drum beats or something and gpio pins and a breadboard. Making a beat has nothing to do with the pins. If you have an SD card with NOOBS then you have Sonic pi a program for making music. That is just one option, there are many more. I am still very new but confident in what I know and I know more everyday. I decided to learn from the command line. I knew that I was getting a raspberry pi to learn Linux, Bash, python and php. I had no project in mind only learning the tool. At first I read and practiced the basics of getting around the system, knowing how to operate it and what is on it. Also learned about copying, making and moving files. I learned my network and things like SSH login. I set up a web server, copied and backed up my system. I learned what packages were installed and how to install then remove other packages. Do you know how to get packages or use github? You are confused because you are jumping steps. You can't get answers to your question because you are not asking answerable questions. I speak from experience. learn the basics first. Ask questions as you encounter them. Dont dismiss sections because you feel that it wont apply to what you want to do, because it just might...you dont know what you need to know. 

Before I answer your question, I'm going to include the following disclaimer. I am not a lawyer. I have some knowledge of business law, but my expertise is limited, and solely within the scope of the United States. First, I'd say we need to consider looking at what the Raspberry Pi foundation states for its IP (intellectual property). In 2012 they released a blog post, Starting A Business With a Raspberry Pi. They specifically state (emphasis mine): 

Assuming that you're not running a weird custom operating system with a minimal kernel, the RPi is running a full fledged version of linux. The applications it comes with are written in C, C++, Java, Perl, Python, and probably others. You'll have to install Julia, but there's no reason the RPi can't handle multiple languages. 

This issue with Wordpress is usually related to permissions being incorrectly set in the directory. Running the command should solve the problem. 

This project is going to require additional hardware. Windows 10 IOT is not a real time operating system; that makes millisecond precision rather tenuous at best. Your best bet will probably be to use something like an Arduino, and have it communicate with the RPi as necessary. 

Adjust the amount of parallel operations that WinSCP is allowed to do. It still has to create a new connection for each file, but you'll get a lot of stuff moved more quickly. I would suggest a setting of 9. 

If you installed software using , there is no need to then configure and compile the software. It already did that step on its own through the install. You can use the command below to check that it installed. 

$URL$ You will need to calculate that question yourself. The cost of mining and hash rate is unique to every miner. If this is endevor is a must for you I suggest you look at pooling if that is still an option. Keep in mind the calculations that are trying to be solved to actually get any bitcoin are very complex and take alot of power That needs to be apart of the equation. Join a bit coin forum they can help as most of the users are currently mining. 

I would start over. If you have started making or building files and directories and moving things or deleting things you are going to spend a lot of time trying to fix things that never should have been messed with. Burn Raspbian or NOOBS from Raspberrypi.org according to the instructions given on the downloads page. After you reinstall do not make,remove, or delete files and folders before you check simple things like spelling, punctuation and spacing as you type them in the terminal. Make sure you use sudo or have permission to do what are trying to do. You stated you did not think you had a boot folder, and also you made a boot folder to create a config.txt file. I will tell you this..you may have deleted, moved or renamed it but at one time you did. I personally do NOT mess around with folders like boot without caution and backing up my system. I would suggest you spend some time learning the file tree, how it works and what the files and folders are used for. Raspberry pi is very forgiving. You can mess up and just burn a new image to reinstall and keep going a million times. By taking time to learn about your system and how it works you wont need to reinstall a million times. This is not the answer you are looking for, but they way you asked the question and what you are asking for I believe this is the answer you need. There may be a series of commands that could potentially save the day and undo what has been done, but if you are just planning on typing in commands that you never understand you will always have problems. If you always have problems you are not having fun, and if you are not having fun what is the point. Trust me I was given the advice I am giving you. I was offended at first but I gave it a try and it is fun it takes effort but it is worth it. 

The MyBookLive is dedicated. It's not doing anything other than HDD I/O, and network requests. 256MB of RAM may seem small considering the RPi's 1GB, but it doesn't have features that require more RAM. Increasing the specs would cost money, and would probably deliver little, if any, benefit. The MyBookLive probably has the proper I/O connectors. My guess is that your NAS has a proper SATA connector to interface with its HDD. The RPi would be limited to a USB converter, which would be significantly slower. The Raspberry Pi's Ethernet and USB share a controller hub. This will further slow down your connection to the device if it's connected through the RPi 

I'm assuming you have an RPi 1 (single core processor). Your code is far too intensive for any single core machine, and is terribly inefficient (but may sorta work) on a multicore machine. The problem lies in the logic of your code. You are using what's called "polling". Essentially, you're the kid that's constantly asking, "Are we there yet? Are we there yet, Are we there yet!?". Polling isn't necessarily a bad thing; it's how USB keyboards work. Most usb keyboards poll at 100MHz (iirc). So if you add a short sleep to the loop, you can use this idea and consume far less resources. Pygame supports an event based solution which essentially allows your program to "block" (sit and do nothing) until an event (like a keypress) is raised. If you're interested in that method, I would suggest you start with their tutorial on how to handle that. 

When I power up Pi Zero, I get to the page to boot into safe mode and the screen goes black for a few seconds and then flashes and shows four colored squares in the top right corner of my screen. If I try and press shift to boot into recovery it does the same thing. I have not seen this issue before is it my SD card or possibly a power problem 

I figured out the problem was due to a bad power supply. I turned it on with nothing pluged in and it worked. I swithched to a better power supply and now it works even with the dongle pluged in on start up. 

Maybe I missed something but I think sudo apt-get install, needs to know what to install. sudo apt-get install toilet for example. 

Dude It is very well documented no motors for the pi. Get arduino, sparkfun, or adafruit micro controller for this stuff. Pi and Arduino work well together and both offer features the other lacks. Just as a reference check out the Arduino web IDE. Open file-examples and see all the possibilities instantly. RPi can not compare in this way 

I have a Netgear router that is compatible to flash DD-WRT. I have read you can use mac windows or linux. I only have a RPi3 no other computers. Will my Rpi3 work for this? I am running the latest Rasbian and have a 16G sd card. 

I saw a variety of answers. some I knew and some i did not know. There is also one I always use that has not been listed yet. If it has and I missed it oops sorry. sudo hostname -I