PuTTY Keys Incompatible I see that your openssh log is complaining about a public RSA key being in the wrong format. Please keep in mind that the keys generated by PuTTY are not compatible with the OpenSSH server (unless you export them to be compatible using PuTTYGen.) Please see the PuTTY website for details. 

Try This I added this to the end of my file on my raspberry pi, and it seems to have helped keep my connections stable. I don't remember exactly what it does, but it may help you. 

On the other hand, doesn't generate any traffic on the local loopback; it just sends out an message from eth0 and doesn't get any messages back: 

Undo the changes to the config files: (This step is easy if you backed up your config files before changing them). 

Yes Greetings from 2016! The Foundation now offers Raspbian Jessie for download and it works on the RPi1B! 

The only Linux drivers available on HID Global's Drivers & Downloads page are for devices with i686 or x86_64 CPUs, so those drivers aren't compatible with any of the Raspberry Pi's. While it's sometimes possible to use an emulator program (like QEMU) to run i686 applications on ARM, emulating i686 drivers can be complicated. 

xdotool mousemove Someone mentions moving the mouse in a bash script in this stackexchange answer using the command: 

One of the bullet points on the datasheet for the DC/DC boost control chip on the Powerboost 1000C specifically mentions low power drain when nothing's using a lot of power: 

Check Password It's dumb, but we all do it. Make sure you typed in the password correctly. If so, read on! 

You must plug your Raspberry Pi into your Internet Router using an Ethernet cable to connect your Raspberry Pi to the Internet. Or, if you have Wifi on your Raspberry Pi, you must connect your Raspberry Pi to your Internet Router using Wifi. Please go here for instructions for Wifi: $URL$ 

cloud-init The usual raspi-config script that resizes the root filesystem on boot isn't in this Ubuntu image. The only init-related resize program I could find was . This is apparently part of the Ubuntu package, and has a function that will resize the root filesystem on boot. The package has a configuration file in which contains: 

Very Odd, But Normal? I replicated this behavior on my RPi2B, which has a static address (192.168.1.111) on its eth0. 

Easy Way One graphical program that's easy to use is . It's a file browser with a lot of dependencies, so it might take awhile to install, but it's intuitive. 

Open Find out your username by typing and pressing the key. (REPLACE AND WITH THE CORRECT VALUES BEFORE RUNNING!!!) (FAILURE TO SET CORRECT VALUES MAY CAUSE DATA LOSS!!!) Type and hit Type in your password and press again Go answer questions on Stack Exchange until finishes. You'll know when it's done, because will tell you how much it copied and give control of the command prompt back to you. 

Buy A Compatible Card Reader You're probably going to have to buy a card reader that is compatible with the Raspberry Pi. 

Disabling Removing from that config file might be sufficient, or you can just disable . The installed version of (0.7.7) was the first version to include an easy way to completely disable it: 

Third Party Repository If the testing version is still too old, there's a chance that some third party offers a newer, compiled and packaged version of for Raspbian Jessie. You'll have to search the Internet for this. Be cautious: Like any other software you download from random places on the Internet, there's a chance to get malware on your Pi this way, though I have not heard of such incidents. 

Remote Domains "Mailing to remote domains is not supported" You should make sure that there's a real Mail Transfer Agent (MTA) installed on your Pi. I usually install . 

I'm no expert, but I would imagine that battery discharge would be minimal when the Pi is "asleep". Batteries usually don't drain at max speed unless something's actually using a lot of power. 

MongoDB Is In The Repositories You just need to install MongoDB, right? It is already compiled and available in the Raspbian repositories: 

Once you're paired, I think it would be simpliest if you used for the file transfers, since you've only got two devices, and messing with profiles would probably be more complicated. 

If it's not running, use to make sure it runs at boot time and then reboot. If it's already running, check the configuration file to make sure it's not misconfigured. The default contents of that file are: 

Adapt Intel Edison Guide, Use I found a guide that describes pairing two Intel Edisons using . It should work for two Raspberry Pi's, since they have the same software. It basically goes like this: 

USB Over IP The USB Over IP project might be a good place to start. That should let you share arbitrary USB devices from your Pi to your Windows computer, such as a USB mouse. Bluetooth Mice Your Macbook Pro probably has a bluetooth radio inside it. If you are just after using a mouse, you could get a bluetooth mouse and pair it with your computer. No USB ports required! If that covers the mouse, then you can share out the USB storage devices from your Pi using a variety of systems: NFS, FTP, CIFS, SFTP, HTTP, etc. 

Elaborating on Dmitry's Comment Basically, drivers need to be compatible with both your OS and your CPU. You're likely running Raspbian as your OS, which is a Linux distribution. The Raspberry Pi v1 has an ARM6 CPU, while Raspberry Pi v2 and v3 have ARM7 CPUs. So you'll need drivers for Linux ARM6 or Linux ARM7. 

After connecting to the VPN, the Pi's public IP address is no longer the same as the router's IP address; It is now a PIA VPN public IP address. You should be able to configure your Pi's PIA VPN public IP address to forward the SSH port to your raspberry pi. Then, instead of connecting to your router's public IP address when you want to SSH into your Pi from abroad, connect to the Pi's PIA VPN public IP address. PIA has a couple of posts about port forwarding that might help: Basic (using PIA application) Advanced (not using PIA application) 

Since it's not in the package, the file must only be available in the default image. So we can download the current Raspbian image, mount it, and copy the file out. 

According to this answer, you can run Wheezy on the RPi3. You just need to update Wheezy on a different, older Pi before putting the SDcard into the RPi3. Not sure if it's the best solution though... 

Since Linux can read Raspbian's filesystem, there's probably a better way to back it up on Linux, maybe with some of tools that uses. 

ISPs Block Port 80 Some Internet Service Providers (like Cox Communications) block port 80. You may need to use a different port, like 8080. For example: 

Usually, I'd redownload the package and extract the original config file from that, but it doesn't appear to be available that way in this case: 

The SMART Status command failed: scsi error medium or hardware error (serious) message is probably nothing to be worried about, since USB bridges are sometimes buggy. 

openssl is a nice command line tool that's often used for converting between different certificate file formats. You'll probably be able to use that for the task. Your might already be in the PEM format, but if it's actually in DER format, you can try converting it with: 

Note: I usually try to include specific commands from the links I put in answers, but I would have to copy so much from this blog post that I'd be uncomfortable doing so. 

While it's possible to run some Windows applications on Linux using the wine compatibility layer, support for Windows CE is very limited, and you shouldn't expect any success. 

Your Raspberry Pi is not connected to the Internet Do you know if your Raspberry Pi is connected to the Internet? 

Hard(er) Way If you're running Raspbian Linux, these instructions for Debian Linux should work. Basically: 

Edit Actually, that looks like it's complaining about the key in , not . Maybe your SSH server got corrupted somehow? You might try reinstalling it: 

Tweak First, I would replace with . Also, make sure you replace with your wifi network's password. If that didn't fix it, try removing the line from because I don't think it's needed. If that fixes it, great! Otherwise, keep reading...