I've got an old Windows 8.1 PC with an old RAID 1 array and a very low-end Adaptec 1220SA RAID controller. Adaptec Storage Manager (screenshot #1 below) shows one drive failed, the other OK. There's no additional information about the failure. There's an right-click "Rebuild Drive" option on the right-click menu in Adaptec Storage Manager. 

I want to end up with a "clustered column" chart which shows, for each product family, the percentage of products in that family which are "Safe for Kids", "Under $10", or have "Free Shipping". Each product family should have three bars each, one for each percentage. It's easy to do this for absolute values by using a in my PivotChart for each column. But I can't figure out how to turn those sums into percentages of the total number of rows in each category. Any ideas? 

UPDATE: I ordered an HDMI to DisplayPort converter, and it worked OK but had quite a few problems: slow refresh rate, laggy cursor, didn't work well with my KVM switch when rebooting, etc. So I bought a new DisplayPort video card for $70 and all problems went away: KVM shows video at reboot, cursor looks normal, I'm getting 60Hz refresh rate @ 4K, and to top it off the new card uses 5 less watts ($1 per month less electricity!). So if I had to do it over again I wouldn't have bothered with converters-- instead I'd have just bought a new low-end video card. 

Try using system restore to roll back your computer to before you updated ICQ. Keep in mind this will restore all data to the date that you select including any instant messaging you have done since. The link above tells you how to access system restore. This link gives you step-by-step instructions. 

No the playlist is simply a text file that contains links to your media files and deleting that text file will not delete your music! 

click start>>run>>type in "cmd" type the location of your flash drive.. e.g. "d:", "e:", "f:", etc.. type "dir /ah" *you will now see the files/folders with hidden attributes type "attrib [name of file/folder] -r -a -s -h" *if you're going to unhide files, you should type the whole name plus the extension (format).. example "attrib party.jpg -r -a -s -h" **if you have folders with 6 characters and above, type the first 6 characters then "~1".. example for folder named "birthday" "attrib birthd~1 -r -a -s -h" you should repeatedly type dir /ah after unhiding some files/folders so you'll know if they're now working or not.. now check you flash drive.. it should be there.. 

So I was able to resolve this, but frustratingly I'm not sure how I resolved it. I fiddled around with settings (e.g. changing from extend to show only external monitor, and then back again). Then I rebooted. Problem resolved itself. 

I've got a Dell Vostro 220 with an E7300 processor (Intel Core 2 Duo @ 2.66Mhz, LGA775 socket) and I'm thinking about upgrading my processor so I can run Windows Server 2008 R2 with Hyper-V, which requires Hardware Virtualization support in the processor. Yes, I know this is underpowered for a server, I'm actually using it as a desktop machine but I'd like to use Hyper-V instead of Virtual Server (which I'm using now for running VMs). I'd like to keep the same motherboard and ideally the same CPU fan and RAM too. Any suggestions for a good, relatively cheap (under $200) processor upgrade? 

I just set up a new Windows 7 machine, went to the mesh.com to install the Live Mesh shoftware, and was able to use the website to view my desktop at home. But on my home machine (running Windows Server 2008), Live Mesh installed a taskbar icon for Live Mesh, which allows me to launch a Mesh remote desktop session without visiting the mesh.com website. But the Mesh taskbar icon is missing on my new Windows 7 machine-- I checked in the "hidden" section and the icon isn't there either. Also, looking in Task Manager there's no MOE.EXE running. Any idea how to restore the taskbar icon on Win7? 

I downloaded an ISO of Windows 7 Home Premium 64 bit From Digital River to try to restore a laptop. I downloaded the ISO and burned it to a Memorex DVD and tried to boot the laptop from it using the boot options but the laptop acted like there was no disk in the drive and booted from the Hard Drive like normal. I tried another boot disk to see if it was the DVD drive but the laptop booted to that disk just fine. Am I burning this disk wrong? Any ideas? Lenovo g570 

If the computer boots with a boot disk then the hard drive is almost definitly the problem Also if you have to replace the drive and recover data this tool works excellent! 

I would say it most definitly is related to the rootkit that was found. It is quite common for viruses to corrupt things in the registry and cause them to malfunction when they are removed. I would try to run malwarebytes If that doesnt fix the issues I would go ahead and reinstall windows. In fact I might even do this first. If you need to do any data recovery Ive had great success with GetDataBack 

I just got a new video card (AMD ATI Radeon EAH5450) and new monitor (Dell E228WFP). Overall they work great except black pixels over a light-blue or gray background (e.g. text on a light background). In that case, pixels above and to the left of each black pixel are much lighter than other pixels in the background. The same problem doesn't happen for pixels to the right and below each black pixel-- only pixeles above and left are affected. Here's a picture (taken using a digital camera pointed at the screen, and then magnified) to show what it looks like. See how the pixels above and left of each black pixel are lighter than pixels below and to the right of each black pixel? This is deliberately non-anti-aliased text so I can illustrate the problem more directly. 

Finally, do cables and adapters have "sides", meaning that a Mini-DP to HDMI cable is different from an HDMI to Mini-DP cable? 

I've tried to find more info online about this "rebuild drive" right-click command but the only documentation that mentions this is in Japanese and Google Translate can't handle it. ;-( Questions for someone who's familiar with Adaptec's older controllers and tools: 

I would return it while you still can. In my experience when a disk starts getting bad sectors it doesnt last much longer. As @dave said this may differ as each person may have a different opinion but I dont think its worth risking it. I would return 

Try uninstalling and reinstalling display drivers Firstly, remove old drivers by navigating to device manager, and double-click display adapters, select the driver tab, and select uninstall for your display driver. Then go download and install the newest display drivers from HP's website 

Actually I would say the problem is with the hard drive itself especially since you say it made a funny noise. In my experience with this issue 95% of the time the hard drive ended up being replaced. Some things you can try to verify this: 

You should be able to go to the applications tab, right-click on the application, and click Go To Process. I tested on my machine, In windows 7 this process was explorer.exe. I killed that process and it closes it out nicely 

It wont "touch" your windows 7 install but you wont be able use the computer while you're installing an OS. You cant boot to the drive with windows 7 on and then somehow boot seperately to your windows 8 installation disk 

After learning more than I ever wanted to about video cables and standards, here's what's going on. First off, video adapters and cables are not always bidirectional. An inexpensive "HDMI-to-Mini-DisplayPort" cable is designed to convert from a Mini-DP output to an HDMI input. But if you want to go the other way, from an HDMI output (like an older video card) to a DisplayPort input (like a monitor or KVM switch) then you need a much-more-expensive "converter" like one of these. The same goes for other kinds of conversions. Some conversions can be accomplished with simple "passive" (no computer chips) cables or adapters while other conversions require "active" converters that run the signals through electronics. And apparently those active conversion electronics are more complicated and therefore expensive in both money and electrical power. Here's my understanding of the rules: 

I'm running Windows Server 2008 R2 with the "Desktop Experience" feature turned on so I can run Aero themes. 

If I upgrade to Outlook 2016 for Windows, what are the server-side requirements to get Clutter? I know that Office365 servers works with Clutter. What other servers will support it? Or is Clutter in Outlook 2016 (unlike previous Outlook releases) able to work client-side without server-side support? I'm asking because our work email is currently hosted on Exchange 2010. If we want to get Clutter, I'm wondering what our hosting options will be. 

You will see your missing folders/files which were hidden by the virus. navigate through your these folders and just copy the files in them to a new location. If neither of those work try this data recovery tool 

this is the system key: [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\ Uninstall] this is the user key: [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\ Uninstall] for more info read this article 

I have an hp pavilion dv6000 that was having windows issues recently including randomly freezing. I eventually concluded that the hard drive was bad (And I was correct as the bad drive started making funny noises and quit working soon after). So I replaced it with a known good drive and put windows on it and it worked for a few hours. After a few restarts startup didn't even make it to the login screen. It just stays at a lighted black screen until I restarted. After another restart it made it to windows but then froze after a few minutes. A few more restarts yielded one of these two results. Like I mentioned earlier I have a know good drive in it and I also replaced the memory that was in it with a know good stick along with running memtest with no errors. So What does that leave? a corrupted windows installation? Motherboard? CPU? Any ideas? 

I just bought a new Dell P2415Q monitor and am having trouble getting it connected to my old Windows 8.1 PC with an nVidia GeoForce 710 video card. It will connect OK to the monitor over a DVI->HDMI cable @ 3840x2160 @ 30Hz. 30Hz is fine with me-- no gaming or video playing on this PC. But I want to connect it using a mini-DisplayPort connection (not HDMI) because I want to run the video signal through a StarTech 4K KVM Switch which only has mini-DP inputs. That's where I'm getting stuck. What's the right cable and/or adapter to connect my video card (which has DVI and HDMI outputs) to a mini-DP connection? I tried a Benfei 4K Mini DisplayPort to HDMI cable which didn't work. Not only did the monitor not detect a signal when running through the KVM switch, it also didn't work when I directly connected my PC to the monitor. This cable also didn't work when I tried connecting via the HDMI output of my MacBook Pro, so I suspect that the problem is the cable (or the cable+monitor combination) not my video card. FWIW, my MacBook Pro works fine mini-DP-to-mini-DP cable to this monitor, either directly connected or through the KVM switch. So, should I: 

I know that the recovery tool is available on the product cd that your Norton install came on if you have that and its also readily available for download. See here Norton Recovery Tools. I have not heard of or have experience with making a bootable device straight from Norton but maybe someone else has 

Try GetDataBack. I have had great success with this utility. I have also heard Recuva works good though Ive never used it personally As far as a diagnostics tool, here is a link to the samsung tool. Note: Ive never used this myself 

Im pretty sure the disk you are talking about is for recovery purposes. If you want to insure your computer against a hard drive crash i would say get the disk. I know that as a pc tech it makes it alot easier on us to get your new hard drive running if you have your own disks 

I have an hp pavilion dv6000 laptop that gives me this error 0x000000f when starting up. So I tried to reinstall windows using the recovery partition and that makes it to 11% recovery and then freezes and wont go any farther. I have tried memtest and Ive tried booting with only half the memory but it still doesnt work. Any ideas? 

Is there a driver setting I can use to stop this from happening? I'm assuming it's a driver problem and not a monitor problem, although this may be an invalid assumption. When I take a screenshot and blow it up I see solid pixels-- whatever color distortion is happening is happening at the driver level or otherwise underneath what Alt+PrintScreen can see. The problem may be limited to some background colors-- for example a darker green background doesn't cause the problem. To illustrate further, I screen-captured some non-anti-aliased text, blew it up 300% in a graphics editor, and changed the background color. You can see that the row of blue pixels over the horizontal line exhibits the lighter-pixel problem (although it's more subtle than the other screenshot because the magnification is less). Note that the green pixels above the text don't exhibit the problem-- they aren't any lighter above black pixels. 

Here's more info about my environment: I'm connecting to the monitor over a DVI cable and the monitor shows that it's a digital signal. I'm running the latest available ATI Radeon versions: