This is not possible. As stated by infixed you can still find you external drive device file using symlinks from or and associated mountpoint from there using if you want (not always installed). 

I have no OSX Sierra but and are usually builtins, not commands. If you miss them, then you shell does not provide them. Also, usually OSX fires a graphical message when attempting to use a command which is not yet installed but supported and tells you how to install it. You can still create your own fully-compatible shell functions to handle that. 

Also note that the command you run will search for every files as a first step, and then call only once with all matching names as a second step. Calling with 20 filename arguments is reasonable but 800 file-path argument becomes to be a bit too much. You system has limitations about the length of command-line argument (see ). I would suggest you directly ask to execute your command which will break calls in several sub-sets. Next command will call once per folder containing files, which appears reasonable: 

If you did not write it somewhere then you are unlikely to find it back. One of the very few way to get it is to consult ARP cache of computers connected on the same networks your laptop connected recently, and not restarted meanwhile. You must know that it is very hard to locate a computer given one of its MAC addresses since they are only visible on the same network the computer is currently connected to. You can not use it through the Internet. Another way could be to use online accounts your computer is configured to auto-join and track activity from there (online antivirus account if any, google connection logs if a google account is automatically used, maybe Microsoft Office 365 or Skype account, etc). You will then get public IP addresses the police can work with, or you can give those details to the police for it to ask any activity to the service provider if they don't give those data to end users. 

On my current Windows 7 install (relatively stock from Lenovo) I cannot click-and-drag on a maximized window and drag it onto my second monitor. On my older computer (another Lenovo laptop w/Win7 -in the same laptop family) I could do this. I'm sure there's some Windows config/registry setting that enables "detaching and dragging" of maximized windows when click/dragging on the title bar of a window, but I can't find it on Google or here. Thanks for any info or ideas! 

I have a single Windows 10 machine. It is not connected to a domain. Pretty stock. Daylight savings time changed this weekend, and my computer is not showing the correct time. I've rebooted it with no change in the issue. If I set "Adjust for daylight savings time automatically" then the time is wrong. If I turn this feature off, then the time is right. It seems like the opposite should be true. Can someone help me to get my OS to report the correct time throughout the year? Screenshots to demo the problem to follow.. Time is wrong when "Adjust automatically" is set: 

I've also read that possibly restarting in safe mode and editing the file might work. This seems like hokum to me, but since I saw it in several threads, I'd pass it along. Finally try changing localhost in the hosts file and see if that makes any difference to be able to ping localhost? If not, then it would seem you're not messing with the right file? Or the file you're messing with is being ignored b/c your IP stack is not looking for any hosts file.. Hope this helps. 

You can also add few more speed and safety options like relatime,nodev and maybe nosuid,noexec. See man mount for available options. 

Hence every users added to the group can raw read the hard drive which is what you actually need. The group name might vary on your system. Just add yourself to that group, logout/logon for this to take effect and give it another try without root privileges. 

And you can read their time-stamps using a simple command. I think it will show creation time-stamps closed to deletion time. 

VLC supports both: general command-line options and per-MRL options. You can find details on VLC Wiki Command-line help: 

The feature accessible from the Network advanced settings of your virtual machine allows you to selectively expose a port of your virtual machine to your host. This way, you can setup virtual machine port 80/tcp (http traffic) to be easily accessible from your localhost port 8080. Below is an exemple for this setting: 

From the graphical point of view, the recovery mode does not start graphical driver (named modules in Linux) which is often loaded by the non-started graphical service. Instead, it uses limited generic graphic console features which requires no specific module. Graphical modules are big and complex, and can crash your computer when they misbehave. If you experience issue with them, then you will love recovery mode which will let you fix it using a reliable environment. Recovery mode compares with optional kernel parameter , or whichever is the specific run level you want to join instead of the default one. 

Are you sure that your IP stack has the hosts file enabled? I recall that by policy it could be disabled, which is a security feature. Scratch installs of Win7 have it enabled, I believe, but it's possible if you're using a corporate machine that it's been disabled and you'll need to re-enable it - I think this is done through the Network control panel as an admin. You sound like you're very computer literate, so don't take offense, but here is another common error: 

Check out Greasemonkey - it can almost certainly handle your task, but you'll have to write some javascript to accomplish it: $URL$ This script looks like it's close to what you want: $URL$ And here's a discussion about how to detect text within a span in html, which would get you the other half of your functionality: $URL$ So you'd want to use the text detection code in 2940 with the auto-reload of 34287. 

It's not a F/OSS solution, but this software does exactly what you want, and has lots of configuration options to support most situations: $URL$ The basic concept is that you install Gsync on your client computer where you run Outlook. You configure it with your Gmail login and it will create a two way sync between Outlook and Gmail. Then Gmail will be effective hub between your phone and your desktop. 

Check out github too - you can import a project from SVN using github and do it online on their servers (as long as it's a public project it's free). This isn't mirroring and you have to use git not SVN but maybe worth checking out.. 

I don't think you need to run as root for your need. Let's have a look to your hard disk device file. It should looks like this: 

This has to do with run levels, which selects a set of auto-started services. Recovery mode (which usually selects either run level or ) starts a very minimal set of services. It does not start graphical, network or antivirus ones to cite a few. You can see a list of services installed on your system this way: 

Yes you can. I finally successfully repaired my Win7 x64 computer few days ago and gave it a try this way: 

Windows file property You can also see this weirdness when you open any file property dialog under Windows. It will show you something like "48 KB (49,152 bytes)". 

In my case I have two results being and and in fact the first is a dependency for the second which is the module to use. Load it this way (with root privileges): 

with the field taking almost always the form . Hence, you can inject your username and password this way: 

feeds left-hand command with right counterpart. This has a meaning for the command, which prints its when no file name is given as argument. But this has no meaning for which always ignores its and only prints its arguments. 

I don't think you can do this. You need to copy/past again. The issue is not related to slash beeing also the substitute command separator, since substitute command accept any separator. The issue is about the back-slashes to be substituted, which have been already treated as simple useless escapements of character on their right. Hence, when you call the substitute command, backslash is already vanished from the source. Just try to re-call the command as is (). Instead of printing the exact same command including , it will execute the command minus already-processed backslashes which result in . And obviously you can not find nor replace a missing character. Trying to do so will fire an error. 

Thanks indeed to Microsoft for eliminating "Restore Previous Versions". However, if you have system protection enabled on your system drive (usually C:) you can STILL get to the old versions back. Just because they took away the UI doesn't mean they took away the underlying backups. First off, download Shadow Explorer. Then bow at their feet for writing it. $URL$ After installing it, you can navigate to the files referenced in the accepted answer by Mark Sowul. Note that you select the date/version you want to browser with the pulldown in shadow explorer: 

I think you want keyconfig. There appears to be a version available for FF5: $URL$ More info here: $URL$ XPI here: $URL$ Fair warning, I haven't tried to get keyconfig working in FF5. But I have used a version of keyconfig with older versions of FF as well as with Thunderbird and it does what you want: lets you remap key configurations to suit your preferences. 

My computer is periodically bogged down by disk activity that I've tracked down to files of an usual type. The symptom is that my computer UI bogs down (mouse stutters, UI buttons lag, etc). While this is going on, in the Resource Monitor I can see high disk activity (the heavy disk use seems to be the source of the slow OS/UI). This whole situation happens only every once in a while. The files that Resource Mon lists as associated with the high level of disk activity are randomly named but always in the form "[letters/numbers].exe.part" and are located in my temp folder. One that I noticed today is 2FQgISac.exe.part. There seems to be only one of these files active at a time. At first I thought it was a virus or something but I right clicked on the file in explorer and examined its properties -- it is a digitally signed file from Microsoft! So that rules out most of kind of viruses? Obviously I've googled for this but I can't find anything relevant. Does anyone know what this is, whether there's a way to get it to stop bogging my user interface and/or any other thoughts or suggestions on how to get my computer back to normal? It seems like this issue has cropped up in the last 30 days for me and I've uninstalled any software I've put on the computer in that time but that hasn't helped.. Thanks for any assistance!